u2018-07-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first meeting of the Third Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On 2 and 3 July 2018, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals which the Government initiated to negotiate at the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament. The letter and its annexes can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai, on behalf of DK, applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled "The National Interest of Hungary." I give you the floor.
u2018-07-02-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The Prime Minister does not forget any of his speeches about Hungarian national interests, but in practice he consistently ignores them. Russian state interests, for example, always overwrite Hungarian national interests, whether they are Paks II, Russian exterminator or spies. The Fidesz government is silent, and the Fidesz-led Hungarian National Bank is silent. And of course, Hungarian national interests do not matter in the European Union if the internal political positions of Fidesz are to be built. Last week, you guys managed to get a slap on the house again. The commission of the European Parliament has proposed the launch of a so-called Article 7 procedure against Hungary, as the activities of the Hungarian Government constitute a systemic threat to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. There has never been such a shame in the history of the European Union, and you have humiliated the citizens of Hungary. The vote then showed that in the EP there was a democratic unity rejecting the policy of the Orbán government, regardless of political affiliation. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Folkfront...]] Corruption at state level, restrictions on judicial independence and media freedom are condemned by all democrats. Of course, I know that the European Parliament is in Soros's pocket, and a significant part of the media, and all European governments. [[Dr. Pál Völner: DK!]] Except for you and all international and domestic companies, except for the Fidesz people, I even heard that the international space station is being researched on the basis of a Soros plan. In addition, Soros is about to use a Jedi masterpiece against everyone in order to implement his plan. However, if the commission had indeed been reduced to the instrument of George Soros' revenge, how can they explain that eight MEPs supported the report? Two Poles for you, peace march! - A Czech for you, V4! - representatives from Portugal, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Malta and Germany. Is the European People's Party in Soros's wages? And if so, why is Fidesz still a member of the European People's Party? And would Soros also be the representative of the major Italian party against immigration, who not only voted in favour of the report, but, with his amendment, even included the corruption cases of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz? Do you understand? Your friend did this, and he's Italian. Well, they know a lot about corruption and mob business. Can you imagine how serious István Tiborcz's case must be if the Italians decide that what the prime minister's son-in-law is doing is outrageous? Their other favourite argument is that the Union is attacking the Hungarian government, in your propaganda in Goebbels, Hungary because you defend Hungarian national interests. I would like to ask which is the Hungarian national interest: István Tiborcz's enrichment? Lőrinc the Butcher, the nation's gasman's enrichment? Paying Lord Voldemort's constitutional cost? Or is it the building of fidesz mayors from EU funds? Is that the Hungarian national interest? Is that what this is? We do not believe that this is the Hungarian national interest. We believe that, among other things, it is in the Hungarian national interest to ensure that Hungary is safe and, for example, at the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county border, there should be border protection where no drugs, weapons or diseases come in. [[Dr. István Apáti: Cigarette...]] ; to have schools in Hungary where children learn to read, read, count, and, more importantly, to think and criticize; to have hospitals in Hungary where people do not die in emergency and hospital infections. And it is also in the Hungarian national interest that Hungary joins the European Public Prosecutor's Office, so that members of your party, at least some of them, go to where they really belong: jail. Government Congresswoman Ladies and Gentlemen! We know that Hungarian national interests are being betrayed in Budapest and that they only think about their own enrichment and the interests of foreign powers, but last week has proven that they themselves are not doing anything else in Brussels; the representation of the European Parliament is not for themselves. Not only because they betray Hungarian national interests, but also because they are losers who are betrayed by their own ideological friends in the European Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]] [[13.10]]
u2018-07-02-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is no surprise, however, that our political communities think differently about what is in national interest and what is not. He mentioned many questions, including the vote in the LIBE Committee, which is, in fact, part of a series of pressures; it is just like trying to blackmail us with finance, when political statements are issued against us, and the same is the case when reports on many occasions in the LIBE Committee are adopted which would otherwise undermine Hungary. [[Gergely Harvesto: Only the wheel! Dr. Agnes Vadai: The government!]] This is not the first such report, there have been many of them, and in these reports it is common that the facts are completely irrelevant to the Members who voted for them, whether it is the media or the judiciary. [[Gergely Harvesto: Even you smile!]] What we see is that the facts don't matter, they're just ideological pressure. And the timing is no coincidence. The reason why this type of pressure is now intensifying is because it coincides with the fact that you are about to settle a series of immigration policy decisions, so you know very well - you want to take the quota package through, for example, now; this was also mentioned at the EU summit held in recent days. And while we are talking about the vote of the LIBE Committee, and the European Parliament, and who is worthy of and who is not, apart from the fact that this will be decided by the electorate, let me tell you that it is extremely scandalous that your representatives will spread letters of discrediting Hungary not only among EU Members but also among their colleagues before and among each such vote. [[Intruder in the ranks of Fidesz: Outrageous! Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! It's an intervention from DK's ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Niedermüller!]] This is a scandal! This is unworthy of someone acting as a representative in Brussels. By the way, if you've been around the country's interests, let me mention some of these things beyond security. For example, the fact that we are economically on our own feet is also a national interest, which is why we have repaid the IMF loan, which is why the government debt is decreasing, and that is why we are cutting back on foreign currency lending, and that is why we are helping to increase the level of national ownership in the Hungarian economy. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's why you put people on the streets...]] When you were in government, there was a time when the Hungarian economy grew by 7 percent. You have turned the country into an IMF ventilator, and you have even allowed for foreign currency lending, which has benefited only foreign banks. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The Fidesz government!]] If we can even talk about national interests, then it is also in the national interest that everyone can work in Hungary. You did not do so, it is not a coincidence that unemployment has doubled during left-wing governance. It didn't double by accident. We had to come back from here, which we did. [[Gergely Arató: Ask the cultural community workers!]] more than 700,000 new jobs have been created [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: That is not true either!]] while the minimum wage, the minimum wage for skilled workers, is doubling. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There is no skilled worker!]] It is also in the national interest that families be at the heart of Hungarian politics. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Tiborcz family, the Butcher family, the Orbán family! We know!]] Therefore, the family support measures are ongoing, and they are expanding, and a significant part of them would be eliminated by a simple pen stroke, just like after the 2002 election, where you were also involved. Well, we're not asking for this again. Then, as far as international relations are concerned, because that is what he referred to - we believe that they should continue to be defined by the nation states. This also means that we are not looking at Brussels or any other capital as an adjustment point. On the other hand, you would simply excuse Hungary from handing over its powers to, say, Brussels. This was also the case if this prosecutor's office, mentioned by you, stood up, removed powers from Hungary and raised it to a supranational level. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! It would mean that EU money could not be stolen! That's what it would mean.]] The aim of our foreign policy is to make every major international player interested in Hungary's success, but when you were in power, Hungarian diplomacy was characterized by self-destruction, you know very well. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! Diplomacy was pretty successful, if I remember correctly...]] And there is one more issue, Madam honourable Member. We listen to you for a long time, not only your similar yellings, but also your speeches in this House. The common element in these speeches is that you speak about democracy. If there's any party that would do better in the case of democracy, if you'd just lay low under a broad leaf, that's your party. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No way! Gergely Harvester: That's Fidesz!]] then that Gyurcsány Democratic Coalition, because you lied in the morning, at noon and at night, you took Hungary to the brink of collapse, you got shot at the Hungarians in 2006, and you were the one campaigning against Hungarians across the border not only in 2004, but even during the last election. So Gyurcsány's politics has absolutely nothing to do with national interests, but rather has something to do with an unscrupulous force that has been intoxicated by power. [[Interjection in DK's ranks: You're lying all over the place!]] But fortunately enough, now they have no chance of getting back on the wheel. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-4	Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2018-07-02-5	Thank you, Mr. President. July 1st, Semmelweis Day, the festival of health workers. This year we celebrated the 200th anniversary of the birth of Ignác Semmelweis. The doctor, known as the mother's savior, was not recognized at his age, he could not receive the recognition he deserved in his life. His tragedy proves that the ability to recognize the truth is not enough, and that it is sometimes easier to recognize the truth than to convince contemporaries. Since Semmelweis was not on the path of scientific researchers, his efforts to convince the medical opinion of his age were a failure. However, when we look back at this stubborn, uncompromising Hungarian revolutionary from the perspective of a century, despite its shortcomings, it must be noted that Henrik Lax was one of the greatest pioneers of medicine in 1963. [[13.20]] On this day health workers will be rewarded with national recognitions, and on this day we thank healthcare workers for their year-round work. As one professional side has pointed out, at the greatest festival of Hungarian health care, the persistence, fitness and dedication of the workers in it will be reflected in the spotlight, but we also need to speak openly and honestly about the catastrophic conditions in health care, the increasing burden of workers both psychologically and physically, their resulting exhaustion, lack of supply, and the critical shortage of professionals resulting from emigration. It is a difficult, trying job that they do in the sickbed, in the clinics, in the O.R., in ambulances, in various social institutions, in the homes of patients, and in the background, so that healing can be done smoothly. According to surveys published now, 41 percent of Hungarians, except for the oldest, would have died saving their lives according to the current state of medicine and technology. This is the result of Eurostat. Hungarian data is the seventh worst in the Union. Every year, tens of thousands die in a way that could have been avoided. Between 2014-16, the number of hospital infections increased from 3998 to 4830; patients are most commonly treated with lower respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, wound, urinary tract and bloodstream infection. The government suddenly realized for a day that something should be done about hospital infections, for example. Mr. Secretary has announced that everyone should wash their hands. It is quite absurd to launch a campaign that highlights the importance of washing hands on the anniversary of Ignác Semmelweis' birth. The only thing the wallet acknowledges is that after 200 years, it is unable to provide adequate hand sanitization tools in healthcare facilities for workers and patients. In the meantime, however, patients and their relatives receiving soap in hospitals should not be taught to wash their hands, but the basic hygiene conditions of hospitals should be ensured as a matter of urgency. Because it seems like you're washing your hands again, everyone else's fault but the government. After 200 years, you tell me that the biggest problem is how to wash our hands. If that's true, it's a bigger problem than we think, Mr. Secretary. Looking at the draft 2019 budget, the health situation will not be much better next year. The government still does not want to answer the systemic problems of health care, degrading working conditions, below-average salaries, the emigration of professionals, the amazing degradation of health care buildings. The highest rate of private health services in Hungary is the highest in the European Union, which highlights the level of public health conditions that Fidesz has brought down. The amount required to deal with systemic problems is available in the budget. One source of this is, for example, the assets of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, over which György Matolcsy and his kinship are irresponsible and self-serving, instead of putting public money where it is urgently needed. In view of this, the Hungarian Socialist Party has put together and submitted a separate health budget package. Now I ask you to support this package with your heart. And so I would like to thank all health workers before the agenda for the humble work that I think you can't thank one day, and I think that we can only salute these people's work with a head start. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-02-6	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-07-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Semmelweis Day was introduced by the government precisely so that there would be a day when we could focus particularly on those who deliver excellent performance in health care, those who receive different awards and recognitions today, and, of course, the hundreds of thousands of people who work in health care, and do so every day to maintain our health, keep it as long as possible among our loved ones. We hope that the following will be the case. To do this, the government wants to help, and on this day we also want to show an increased sign of recognition, of respect. At the same time, you were talking about submitting a health budget separately. Well, we saw what it was like when the socialists submitted their health budgets. For example, hospitals were closed; the children's hospital in Svábhegy, OPNI, Szabolcs Street Hospital or Schöpf-Mere Hospital. We remember what it was like when the Socialists put in a health budget, because that's when they built 16,000 active beds. We also remember what it was like when the Socialists wrote a health budget because they put 6,000 health workers on the street. You, who are still talking about the need for more doctors, more nurses, when a health budget was drawn up, have issued 6,000 people from that budget. You're saying that people pay too much of their own money for health care. Madam President, you would have paid a visit fee to all doctors and daily allowances to all hospital patients. You're talking about why patients' costs are high. But when they had the opportunity, not only did they raise the price of the drugs that we had reduced in the past period, but with every person who got sick or thought that he might be sick and went to the doctor, or that he was lying on the hospital bed, you would have paid them a visit every day and every time you went to the doctor. Madam Member, this is what it was really like when the Socialists wrote a health budget in Hungary. For you, health care was a matter to be outsourced, a business question, what is profitable of it, they tried to privatise it, and the rest they would have left alone, and privatisation would have been the case throughout the health sector. The people said no in the social referendum, and when Fidesz-KDNP was sent to power after you. In recent years, we have tried to provide additional resources, because the health budget in 2010 was not a good picture. You referred to the OECD, let me refer to it! According to the OECD survey, which was the only OECD Member State between 2003 and 2009 with a reduction in per capita health expenditure? Only Hungary. Your health budget was the only one in the entire OECD where the per capita expenditure was reduced. And do you know how Hungary is included in this list after 2010? Fortunately, health expenditure per capita is not falling, but is increasing, and the seventh has increased to the greatest extent, the seventh of all OECD Member States, of all developed countries, has increased per capita health expenditure. This will help us to improve the inherited bad positions that are indeed based on your eight-year governance. If you look at this year's budget, you won't know what it's like when the Socialists wrote the health budget, because this year it has HUF 546 billion more in it than it did in your time. And if you look at next year, you will not be able to find a resemblance to your health budget, because there is already a surplus of HUF 647 billion compared to what you intended for doctors, you intended nurses, you intended medicines, you intended to improve the health status of Hungarian people. Of course, this also comes down to the Health Insurance Fund, as there is a 62.5 percent increase between 2010 and 2018. That's how much more we want to spend on people's health. The most important thing everyone thinks is wages. You first showed us in Hungary's post-system change history what it was like to reduce the wages of healthcare workers, because it was in your health budget when you took a month's wages from all health workers, doctors and nurses. On the other hand, between 2016 and 2019 we increase the wages of the workers and nurses by 65%, while the doctors were raised by HUF 207 thousand last year and the year before. The wage increase of nurses will continue next year, it is included in the budget. Our health budget contains extra wages, unlike yours, which included taking a month's wages. So if you're really brave, you're gonna vote for that. The fact that when the Hungarian Socialist Party hears about a campaign of clean hands, its back is freaking out, and it can be justified in their party history, but I think it is also a confession of some kind. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-8	On behalf of Jobbik, Mr László György Lukács will hold a speech before the agenda:. on the occasion of Semmelweis Day. Congressman's got the floor. [[13.30]]
u2018-07-02-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Sunday, July 1st, was Semmelweis Day. This is the day when everyone pays respect and gratitude to health workers and healthcare workers. This is exactly what Jobbik's youth department did when, welcoming those seeking work, asphalt drawings surprised all medical or technical staff working in the institution. But this day is not only an opportunity to show our respect, but also to discuss our common issues in health care, to highlight what needs to be done in health care. It is important to clarify this because there seems to be a difference not only between the position of the government and the opposition, but also between the position of the government and real data and statistics. It is a very good example of this derogation by the controversial but otherwise a minimum reason for debate, the reply of the Secretary of State for New Health, Aniko Nagy, given in a report on Andy Vajna's television. This was the question of when health care would be better, more acceptable and when it would be of European quality. He said that it is already that, the Hungarian health care system is internationally accepted and provides good care, and our facilities are at European level. That is, in his view, our health care is in everything at European level. Dear Secretary of State, This is important because it is surprising to hear such a statement from the secretary of state coming from health, who, by the way, has seen in the institution which he is otherwise well-run as to the difficulties that domestic health is facing. You can see these dry facts, data, statistics, such as the lack of tools in health care. It is enough to think of only one of the most advanced imaging diagnostic procedures, the CT, in which, when compared with the surrounding countries, Hungary is very poorly in the number of publicly funded CTs. This means, on the one hand, that fewer tests can be carried out, that the machines are subject to higher loads, and that neither is their renovation nor their replacement at the rate that would be internationally acceptable. But we can also talk about small things that are the daily annoyance of health care, when relatives need to bring printer paper or hygiene equipment to the hospital, for example, because the budget is running out. After all, they manage with such a small amount, which is also shown by the production of their debt, from which they are simply unable to do the right work properly. Unfortunately, Mrs State Secretary, we should also be aware that the Hungarian population is struggling with one of Europe's worst disease and mortality indicators, both in terms of morbidity and mortality, and in some diseases, cardiovascular diseases and cancer diseases, unfortunately, we are among the last in Europe. 40 percent of the domestic population is also overweight, and this alone is a big problem, which shows our public health problems, and every second Hungarian person dies of cardiovascular or cancer, Mr. Secretary of State, in which we are also one of the worst nations in Europe. In fact, we are saddened to see that in the last two statistics, the surrounding states, such as the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic, which has had very similar abilities with us, have been able to achieve a much greater change, much greater improvement since 1990. The situation could be described as if Hungary was stuck at the starter gun, while the Czechs were able to successfully reduce the difference between the European average and their standards with a decent, decent work. In fact, to say something even worse, it is quite recent that 41 percent of deaths in Hungary could have been avoided in case of avoidable deaths in people under the age of 75. That depends, of course, on a lot of things. On the one hand, it depends on what kind of public health program we have, what the socialisation of patients in health care is, but it also depends on what the system can bring out of itself, what the institutions can bring out of themselves. What we see is that most of the institutions can't get a good result from their own situation because there's not enough money. Where the workers are doing their best, and perhaps they are the only ones who are currently keeping Hungarian health care alive. And the consequence and starting point of all this is low funding. Dear Secretary of State, You are still very far from what should be spent on health care. Most European countries, and even the majority of neighbouring countries, spend significantly more on public health than we do. And here is also the distorting effect of gratitude money that I could talk about, and which, I think, also does not support European standards. In fact, we could say that from a public health point of view over the past eight years, you have not managed to put anything special on the table. Maybe we should cut our losses here the most. So, Mr Secretary of State, we can at least agree that there is a lot of work to be done. In fact, there should be a political interest in improving health care. You, Mr Secretary of State, have been given two-thirds power so far, both times the voters have failed, and have not been able to achieve any meaningful change or improvement. He also hopes that the profession and the voters will finally use their two-thirds mandate to improve health in substance and to become truly European. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-10	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I tried literally to take notes, but you said something about health care workers, doctors and nurses being the last people to keep the system running, keeping health care in operation, so they should be highly appreciated. Obviously, we fully agree, not only on Semmelweis Day, but also on other occasions, that they deserve great recognition. But you did not want these doctors and these nurses to keep this system working here in Hungary. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes. It's a lot of noise.]] You've been doing activities like the old liberals...
u2018-07-02-12	[[To Dr. László György Lukács:]] You've given your opinion in five minutes, five minutes in 15 seconds, so please, just shut up, okay? Thank you.
u2018-07-02-13	Dear right-wing Members may come to light, but then they laugh at themselves and make themselves frivolous if they tell their party mates that doctors are free to go abroad, and why the government is not working on having more doctors in the Hungarian health system. As I looked at, you were proud that in six months 62 doctors had been taken abroad by the company that, as you said on György Baló's programme on RTL, which your former party president said would sprinkle salt into the place of the RTL Club, well, you went there to make a statement, and said that you were involved in the company that was involved in exporting doctors, which was also part of your activities. That's what you said on György Baló's show, honourable Member. Well, on every three days you took a Hungarian doctor abroad from the Hungarian health system, and from this you obtained your income, which kept you up. He said abroad that the qualifications of Hungarian doctors were at European level, so he took them to other countries in Europe, so 62 doctors were taken in six months. Unfortunately, we do not know the other statements that he made behind closed doors, how much he had taken abroad overall. But you didn't take a doctor on Monday, Tuesday, but on Wednesday, you took another doctor abroad, and on Thursday-Friday, you didn't, but on Saturday, you took another doctor abroad. That's how your days went. And here they are, on Monday and Tuesday, asking us why there are so few doctors; then I don't know exactly what you do on Wednesday-Thursday-Friday, and your party will assign it to you. Honourable Congressman, That's how credible Jobbik's policy is. I don't know how many cycles you've been in Parliament, but even in the second cycle, Jobbik hasn't found a health policyr who wouldn't have taken doctors abroad or made a living exporting doctors. So much for Jobbik's medical credibility, honourable Member. As I said, we want to appreciate those who work in health care in recognitions, celebrations and wage increases, and we are really trying to provide them with working conditions at European level in more and more places in Hungary. Because the 77 hospitals we've renovated are renovated at European level. The 54 clinics we've renovated are European-wide. The 104 rescue stations we've renovated are at European level. The 23 clinics that we have newly built are at European level, and the 31 new rescue stations that we have also built as a completely new rescue station are now also at European level. Thus, most of the rescue stations are either new or renovated, at European level, and it is only the minority that really shows the technical quality or design of an earlier era. But we hope that more and more of these will happen, which is why we have also started the . Healthy Budapest, in which we wish not only to raise super hospitals to the European level, but also to increase 25 co-hospitals and 16 specialised clinics to a European-wide supply form. You mentioned CTs and MRs, honourable Member. He just forgot to mention that the number of these has increased between 50 and 100 percent in recent years, so much more people have access to such diagnostic facilities. He also forgot to mention the wage increases, plus 10 percent for the rescue workers, in addition to the other 65 percent health professionals' increases. And with that, let's say, the budget for saving rose by 74 percent compared to previous years. Or did you forget to say that when you lived and delivered Hungarian doctors abroad, 845 people went abroad a year and only 334 people went abroad last year. So it's down 60 percent. And this is not only because you have fallen out of the market, but also because in Hungary we can now offer better wages to doctors and nurses. In the coming years, we will be working not only to increase the wages of nurses by 8 percent next year, but to continue these increases. But from what we can see, Fidesz and KDNP are the only guarantees, because any other opposition party could only put health care at risk. And the consequence was that now the waiting lists are at the same level as in Britain, and not at the same level as they were in 2010, when 70,000 people were still on the waiting lists, and now 28,000 people are on it. We want to continue this work because there is still work to be done, but we are ready for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2018-07-02-14	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On behalf of the Dialogue Group, Mr Tamás Mellar asked for the floor with the title on the economic situation. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In recent days, not only the soccer world has caused us all great excitement, but also the exchange rate of the forint, which has risen to 330 forints against the euro on Friday, and this is a historic low point. The forint is as weak as it's ever been. But to make sure it wasn't a coincidence, this morning, this 330 negative peak came back up again. Government-to-government experts and government spokesperson also explained this forint weakening by the fact that there was certainly some speculation behind it, and then, I suppose, very quickly came to the conclusion that Soros and his agents were probably behind it, they were trying to lose the forint, because there was a historical example that the Soroses speculated against the British pound at the time. Well, before you, dear members of the government, start a half-hour of hatred, let me offer you two facts to consider. One of the facts is that, in recent years, the US central bank has launched a round of interest increases, resulting in foreign capital starting overseas from Central and Eastern Europe, which means that the entire region's money has sensed this, so the Polish złoty, Czech krona, Turkish lira and so the Hungarian forint have also weakened significantly. But there's another element that's more important than that, and that's next. Over the last two years, inflation has risen very stubbornly and very strongly. At present, inflation is at around 3 per cent, and this year, too, and according to the MNB's forecasts, 3 per cent will be at least or above 3 per cent in the next year. On the other hand, there is a base rate of 0,9 per cent. And the MNB does not want to change this 0.9 percent central bank base rate, at least that's what they said at the last Monetary Council meeting, and they later said that there was no increase in the interest rate on the agenda. This means, however, that the real interest rate is negative due to the inflation rate of 3 per cent and the base rate of 0.9 per cent. If the real interest rate is negative, this obviously does not encourage savings and does not encourage economic operators to hold their assets in HUF. Which means that the forint has started on the path of weakening, and as a result of the weakening, this has certainly invited the speculators to short, that is to speculate that the forint will also weaken in the next period. And this shorting obviously weakened the forint. But it is not necessary that this should have been the case, because the central bank could have prevented this in any case, but it should have told him a week or two ago that the period of low interest rates was over, and that the period of interest increase would begin, and this whole forint weakening would not have occurred. Why he didn't do that, you don't really know. Perhaps because it follows the intelligence of the former Prime Minister, who, in turn, wanted to vilify the forint, perhaps some remember it - to encourage exports in some way, of course, this can only be done in the short term; or there is another reason for it. But whatever is behind it, one thing is certain: in the long run, this situation cannot be maintained, the real interest rate cannot be negative, the central bank must sooner or later increase the base rate. The question is, of course, when will you do so? Anyone who knows or suspects when the interest rate turn is going to take place in Hungary, so when will the central bank raise interest rate, can speculate very well and gain very big profits for as long as this interest rate increase does not take place. Something tells me that it is not George Soros who has the most authentic information about when the MNB intends to raise interest rates here and now. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-07-02-16	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is possible to polarise these issues between the walls of Parliament, but the question of when the MNB will raise the base rate can be answered by the MNB and will do so. Of course, you know very well that an exchange rate policy can have different effects and exchange rate policy also serves economic purposes. But how the currency policy instrument has been used over the past period, I would remind you that there has been a government where the government has driven companies and people into foreign exchange lending, even at political level, and subsequently has suffered a very, very serious disadvantage, and it has taken the Orbán government to help people who are in a bad position because of this foreign exchange loan and foreign currency lending with various help and support. But the fact that, in recent years, both the government and the MNB have been paying attention to the Hungarian forint exchange rate and have put the economic policy at the service of the economy, which has also been helped by the development of the foreign exchange exchange rate, the exchange rate of the forint, is perhaps proof that over the past period, especially since 2013, since the Hungarian economy started to recover from the crisis after the 2008-2009 crisis, it has achieved significant results. Let me give you some information on this, my dear fellow Member. For example, statistical data clearly confirm that in recent years the government, within the government, economic policy professionals, politicians and policy makers have well defined the country's economic development and GDP-related growth. For example, last year the economy expanded by 4 percent, and in particular, investments in Hungary increased by 17 percent, i.e. to an unprecedented extent. The number of employees has increased significantly, nearly 4.5 million people are working in Hungary, and this has been an increase of almost 750 thousand people in recent years. Compared to 2010, unemployment is falling significantly, from almost 12 percent to 3.7 percent last week, according to the latest data. Thus, the unemployment rate has decreased significantly. Wages have increased significantly, real wages have been increasing in Hungary for nearly six years, and if I may quote it correctly, a statement, a forecast, according to the UK trade union association, Hungary will be at the top of the real wage growth ranking of the OECD organization of industrialized economies in 2018. So we have been able to produce results continuously over the past few years. And that this increase, this growth, is continuous and well-progressive, I would also like to provide some evidence of this. For example, in the 2013 convergence programme, the government calculated an increase in GDP of 0.7 per cent, and then, according to the first communication, the actual increase was 1.1 per cent. In the spring of 14 the government calculated a 2.3 percent increase, the fact became 3.5. In the 2015 convergence programme, the government planned 3.1 percent, the fact became 3.4 percent, in 2016, after the six-year wage agreement, the government projected an increase of 4.1 percent by 2017, and in 2017 this fact became 4.2 percent. This shows that almost every year there was a slightly higher actual growth compared to what was set by the government as a prognostication. This development is also true in the SME sector, although they are struggling with a lot of difficulties, but it is precisely my ministry's task to ensure that the SME sector, which is the backbone of the Hungarian economy, especially when it comes to the employment number, as we know very well: about 70 percent of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises employ Hungarian employees and employees. So this ministry will do everything in its power to create an economic environment in which Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can achieve further growth and significant development in the next period. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2018-07-02-18	On behalf of the LMP, Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked for the floor:. What is the Government doing for Hungary's security? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One guarantee of the country's security is that we appreciate those who serve the safety of Hungarian people in everyday life. So here in the House, I would like to thank them for their dedicated service. Competitive salaries should therefore also be provided to soldiers, defence workers and law enforcement workers. Although the defence salary base will rise to HUF 44 600 next year, the HUF 38 650 civil servant salary base is still the calculation point in the area of law enforcement. In addition, the public service pay table has not changed and is now inapplicable. The solution to the problem is urgent, since around 75,000 people are involved in defence and law enforcement. In addition, each organization has a huge shortage of numbers and fluctuations, which causes extra overload to the stock. In both areas, the stock performs 8-10 million hours of overtime and overwork on an annual basis, which is unsustainable. This also undermines the effectiveness of work and can lead to accidents. It is also unacceptable for them to try to hide the drastic lack of professional and contractual staff only by using public workers completing a two-page test. Thus, the uniform increase of the salary base to HUF 60,000 and the settlement of the civil servant pay table, with minimum wage, is now indeterminate. When we talk about the situation of security workers, we must not forget the workers in the personnel and property sector, the security guards. It is important to see that, in addition to the personnel employed by the State in the field of security, those working on the market also face serious problems and work under unsustainable conditions. Although they are not employees of the State, the State would still have an obligation to provide them with a regulatory environment and to enforce it, which prevents them from being completely vulnerable. In Hungary, tens of thousands of people and property guards are still working black. In words, the government struggles hard against black employment, but in this profession they do nothing in reality. The people and property guards are everywhere, in the caravans of car parks sprinkled with a murvah in the perfume shop, replacing the electronic gates in the subway. The Home Office should be overseeing the area, but the public records show that there's a lot of trouble and a lot of people are working black. And one who is announced one way or another makes very little money. The minimum wage security officer is now the elite of the profession on paper. As is the case, the strict regulations governing the area apply only on paper. Personnel and property companies and persons should be monitored by the police very strictly, that is to say, they should. Compared to this, security guards work for businesses in almost every company and office. It's an open secret that they're working black or minimum wage with cash. Even the largest companies in the business employ very few people on paper. Currently, more than 100,000 personal and property guard permits are valid in Hungary, but only 39 000 of them are registered with companies whose main activity is asset management. That means 62,000 asset guards can work black. It is typical that companies now involve temporary agency workers in order to avoid paying contributions and taxes, thus creating endless sub-contracting chains to damage the state to tens of billions of people and to deliver workers. In this sector, 71 percent of workers are being violated by the employer. Most people receive only 400-600 forints an hour. The problem is aggravated by unpaid overtime, unpaid leave, total vulnerability, lack of official control and under-regulation of the area. This under-regulation puts decent employers in a very difficult position and continues to favour and not be able to reduce employers who commit lawlessness. The government does not take any meaningful steps to solve the problem, and even a law amendment has been adopted to make it impossible to know which company is authorised to carry out any activities of personal and property guardian at all. I don't know which Secretary of State will answer, but please don't come up with the number of amendments to the law, how much they've done for the workers in the sector, because whatever rules they've made hasn't solved the problem at all. The situation is untenable today. So I ask you what the government will do to resolve the situation, and when will they finally act against the extreme evisceration of more than 100,000 workers, by the way, in the year of the families.
u2018-07-02-20	Although this is not an interpellation period, I give the floor to Mr Kontra. Here you go. [[Márta Demeter: I'm honored...]]
u2018-07-02-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I ask you, since I have listened fairly, you do not determine what I will answer or what I will not tell you or what I will not tell you. Respect that I'm the best I can do. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That will be very little now!]] And I would like to inform you, in accordance with the laws, of the answers to your questions. This is my starting point, and I'm asking you to respect that. As far as the substance is concerned, honourable Member, there is order in Hungary, there is security in Hungary, and today security is the greatest community value in the world, in Europe and in Hungary as well, as it lays down the basic conditions for everyday life and for our safety. Here, too, I would like to thank all the professional staff, both the military and the police, and the law enforcement professional staff, who work in order to ensure order and security in Hungary. As compensation for this, the Government has, as promised, put in place a new service law as of 1 July 2015, one of the very important elements of which is the career programme, promotional and salary system, of which an average salary increase of 50 per cent will be made by 1 January 2019 for both the military and law enforcement professional personnel. This concerns more than 60,000 professional law enforcement personnel, who carry out their activities under the control of the Ministry of Interior, and 45 percent of this salary increase has already been carried out, and from 1 January 2019 we will complete the remaining 5 percent. With January 2019, professional staff will receive another 5 percent and the average 50 percent salary increase will be achieved. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the negotiation and general debate of the 2019 central budget took place in Parliament last week, and I said in my comment that the resources for this increase in salaries in the 2019 budget are fully available both for the military and for the law enforcement professional staff. However, this is not only available, Madam honourable Member, but also 12 billion forints of performance, which is awarded to professional staff on the basis of the performance achieved, and nearly HUF 3 billion is available to support the housing conditions of professional staff. So we are doing a salary increase, we are providing performance benefits, and we are also providing housing support to professional staff, both law enforcement professionals and military personnel. What you're saying is that there's a huge shortage of numbers, fluctuations, I'd like to say that this is simply not true. What you're saying is not true, Congresswoman, there is no great shortage of numbers. There was, indeed, before 2010, only for the previous period, when thousands and even tens of thousands of young service workers left around the age of 40 [[Márta Demeter: Tell me about the security guards, Mr. Secretary.]] the professional staff of both the police and the soldiers, but this has ceased, and since 2012, this option has been closed, and from 2015 we will appreciate the professional staff as a result of the new service law. By the way, from 2010, when we came to government, we provided additional allowances to officers and ensigns. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I had to, because the transmitter took it!]] From 2015 onwards, we have completed a comprehensive salary increase. [[14.00]] As regards your negative comment on the public workers, I would like to reject it. I appreciate those who work in public employment, because they do a very important job, and they contribute to providing for their own and their families with public employment. And as for the security guard's work, [[Péter Ungár: Treasurers!]] I would like to say that all statutory obligations of the Ministry of Interior and all statutory obligations of the police will be fulfilled, and that the necessary checks will be carried out. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It also contributes to maintaining legitimate conditions in this area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-22	The leader of the KDNP Group, Mr Péter Harrach, has also applied for a speech before the agenda: "European events." Here you go.
u2018-07-02-23	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, there have been two events involving Hungary in the EU: the Commission's adoption of the Sargentini report and the EU summit, where an agreement was reached. The rapporteur can be said to be a worthy student of the speakers of the generation 68, a revolutionary who takes on everything that represents a traditional value, but cannot make a viable offer instead. As he proclaims tolerance, he cannot bear to see the world differently. Of course, he has his spiritual ancestors in Europe, in different robes throughout history, the ideology that has hardly changed, whose followers have always attacked Christian values and the structures that represent them. They've always appeared in the dress of a beautiful social goal. Today, this is called open social theory. Even though he was convinced in practice that this was not working, his fanatical followers were not shaken by this. They're even more violently trying to force their decadent views on everyone. To influence public opinion, they run countless organizations and psychics. This approach is reflected in the report, which cannot be accused of objectivity, bias and prejudice. His term is wrong with facts, falsifies them, or shapes them to justify his prejudices. Let me give you some examples. He believes that freedom of the press is being violated in Hungary. In fact, he seems to be missing the left-wing media sovereignty, which is still present today, so much so that he could take on the opposition campaign instead of you. [[Dr. Tamás Belling laughs.]] We do not have a problem with freedom of the press, we have a problem with press ethics; anti-Semitism is also being prosecuted. I suggest you ask the Israeli Prime Minister about this. [[Lajos Korózs: What about him?]] He's throwing anti-civility at us. You're obviously referring to organisations supporting immigration in Hungary, who don't have a migrant ship because we don't have a coast. The EU summit has also just happened, and it is worth saying a few words about it as well. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Especially from the video, it's very nice!]] There were quite different sounds, but the reason is obvious. While the Commission and Parliament have a strong pro-immigration Federation approach, the members of the Council also represent a changed opinion of the citizens of the Member States. Of course, the need to solve two dangerous problems has increased the leniency of Western countries: the German coalition crisis and, on the other hand, the tension that threatens the functioning of the Union, which has arisen from a different assessment of migration management. What was the result of this meeting? It's too early to talk about a final victory today, but it's about a breakthrough. The mandatory quota has been removed from the agenda, the protection of the EU's borders has been stressed and the need to set up external refugee camps. The need to set up voluntary internal, so-called controlled centres has been published, but there is no compulsory introduction. This is in line with the Hungarian opinion, as we said that each state should decide for itself whether it wants immigrants. These three aspects, I feel, are appropriate to the Hungarian delegation and obviously to the Hungarian perspectives, including the combined aspects of the V4s, and in this sense we can say that there has been a real breakthrough. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-24	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Parliament, Yes, indeed, the European Council held its meeting on 28-29 June. [[Noise, interruptions, clearness in the ranks of opposition parties.]] And in that regard, I thought of a saying. There is no need to be afraid of the word'sorrow', dear fellow Members, I think. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Especially for you! Depreciation, interruptions.]] It also has a neutral meaning, but that's not how you use it, which is our biggest problem on this side. The following phrase came to my mind about the European Council: I am afraid of the Greeks, even if they bring gifts. Why did I think of that saying? Because, indeed, we could call the conclusions of the European Council a gift at first sight. The tone of the Council conclusions has changed. It has finally been stated that irregular migration must be reduced. What we have been saying for a long time is highlighted is the need to deal with the migration situation in hotspots outside the EU. What the Hungarian government has long represented is said to be the creation of hotspots within the EU, and these hotspots must be closed. The Hungarian government has been saying this for a long time, and as a kind of pilot project, in practice they have created these closed hotspots on the Hungarian border as transit zones. In fact, the European Council's conclusion is about taking over working Hungarian solutions. He said that NGOs should not interfere with the work of the authorities. In our view, this is not a strong text, but, compared to where we started, there is no doubt that progress has been made. And yes, Mr Group Leader, it is also true that the struggle of the V4 countries has been declared that hotspots, whether outside or within the territory of the European Union, are not mandatory applicants to be transferred to the Member States. But why do I say that it's not a gift, but that we have reason to beware, beyond the fact that it's part of our job to worry? My first and most important argument is that we've seen it before. We have seen this at the beginning of the migration crisis when it was declared by certain EU institutions that there is no mandatory relocation of asylum seekers. What happened to a majority council decision? EU countries have adopted mandatory relocations for 120,000 people. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the devil is in the details, because it may sound good at first that we are talking about border management, but if it is not about closing borders and stopping irregular movements, then it is more about helping incoming people rather than supporting border protection. Thirdly, the same question is how we view hotspots outside the EU. What are these? Tourist agencies that transport people to the European Union? In our view, this is not the way it should work, but the means of border protection that attempt irregular entry. People are being held back and returned there. Fourthly, even if the European Council finds out what should be done here, we see that the other EU institutions, at the forefront of the European Parliament and the European Commission, do not follow the direction of the European Council designated for political direction. There are completely opposite proposals and conclusions. Fifthly, no institution will address the migratory pressure in the neighbourhood of the European Union, its neighbourhood, the migratory pressure in sub-Saharan Africa, the number of millions of people waiting in Turkey and the North African coast to attempt to enter the European Union. [[14.10]] Therefore, we can say that we cannot view the conclusions of the European Council as a gift, but I would urge everyone to beware. I would also like to turn to the Sargentini report referred to by Mr Group leader, as, meanwhile, the European Parliament is under political pressure on the rule of law mechanism against Hungary and other Member States who have so far set a course for their migration policy, which is one of the last, desperate attempts of the European political elite to put successful and alternative migration policies in a difficult position before the European Parliament elections. That's why I'd warn everyone to be careful. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and I would mean that the Hungarian government will continue to fight for Hungarian interests in the European Union. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-26	The speech before today's last agenda will be addressed by Mr János Halász, on behalf of Fidesz, on the title of Europe's migration policy. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-07-02-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Last week, an important European Union summit took place in Brussels, migration was still the topic, and, as we have heard, this has been mentioned several times in this House, obviously. We know that Hungary's views on migration are consistent, and more and more people say so. Time has shown us in migration, and Western Europe is finally waking up, because there is a danger that migrants will be distributed from refugee camps to European countries. We have been able to reverse this proposal, and we have our own proposal accepted, which clearly states that no one can be transferred from the refugee camps to another country without the consent of the country, so Hungary will remain an immigrant country and will remain for Hungary. But we cannot be entirely satisfied: although the term "binding quota" has undoubtedly been removed from the agenda, the problem has not been resolved at all, millions of migrants have come to Europe in recent years and millions more would like to come. The Balkan route is alive and migrants from Africa are also coming to Europe, and the current negotiation of the next budget cycle proves that supporting migration remains an important goal in Brussels. However, people in Hungary, not only in Central Europe, not only in Italy or Austria, but throughout Europe want us to protect the borders. People want us to protect boundaries and protect people's safety. They want us to run procedures against those who are already in there and take them home. But European leaders do not do what people want and expect them to do. According to Fidesz, it is up to us to wait for the European Parliament elections next year so that people can express their views there as well. It is quite clear that Brussels still does not aim to prevent migration, but is always trying to help it by means of newer and more. The political leadership in Brussels is in line with those countries who are not open to the idea of the United States of Europe and to support immigration. This has been the case with the adoption of another European Union event, the so-called Sargentini report, already mentioned here, which is again attacking our country. In addition to the fact that it contains obvious lies, the Sargentini report excites already held debates and criticises our country on matters falling within the competence of the Member States. In Brussels, there was a conceptual procedure against Hungary and it was concluded with a political judgment: they want to pressure Hungary to change our position on immigration, but after the Hungarian electorate has decided on this issue, there is nothing to talk about. In Brussels, György Soros's score is played, migration and the exchange of European populations are regarded as valuable. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] On the other hand, we regard security, the protection of the family, the protection of Christian culture and the appreciation of work as European values that must be followed, represented and protected. We look at the interests of the Hungarian people, we will not allow one illegal immigrant to set foot in Hungary. Of course, the Soros network and its allied politicians in Brussels are increasingly trying to force their own pro-immigration policy on others. We can see that Soros's people are everywhere: the reporter Judith Sargentini himself did not deny that the billionaire's man, just as the representatives of the Hungarian left always took a stand against their country, supported migration and supported the report. A perfect example of this is that the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Péter Niedermüller, submitted an amendment to the document with a negative content for Hungary during the debate on the report. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: To the Hungarian Government! It's not the same!]] Dear House, Every time the Soros network threatens Hungary, Fidesz and KDNP's alliance will stand up to the protection of Hungarian national interests. We enforce the will of the Hungarian people, and the Hungarians made it clear in the election that they did not ask for mass immigration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Pál Völner: That's right!]]
u2018-07-02-28	It's Csaba Dömötör again. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The EU summit last week was indeed of great importance, and the stakes were on whether the resettlement system could be finalised. It is a serious result that we have managed to prevent this with the cooperation of the Visegrád countries, that is to say, we have gained time. But the fact that they could not now accept the resettlement quota does not mean that the intention to do so in the future has ceased. One thing should also be clarified here in this House, namely that, unlike some false news conceived abroad, there was no decision to accept the immigrants who were expelled from Germany by fourteen countries, this duck was also denied by the Visegrád countries. We do not know why such false news may be linked to the German internal political crisis, but this does not change the point. [[Noise.]] So, we have won a serious political battle in Brussels, but this is just one battle out of many, the debate on immigration has not yet been decided at all; on the one hand, it is not because the migration crisis remains with us permanently and its consequences are increasingly serious, and on the other hand, because the pro-immigration forces have not put down the weapon at all and have not become weaker at all than before. Even now, very serious resources are being mobilised to change the course of things, and serious resources are being mobilised by those who believe that immigration is not a risk, but an opportunity, even a law. These include, for example, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs, who instead of taking a united position on this issue [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It states that immigration is vitally important for Europe, because some economic sectors would stop. We now have to focus on three types of risk in immigration policy. These are the three risks: the risk of quota risk, financial risk and asylum procedures, and these risks can be clearly seen from the Commission resolution published before the summit. As far as the resettlement programme is concerned, it has now been blocked by the Visegrád countries, but the fact is that it is clear from the statements on the summit that the proposal has not yet been withdrawn at all. There is a legislative proposal, it has not been withdrawn, and that means that they can start again at any time, to bring the agreement to an end, and, by the way, even Western countries who think the same thing about border protection are supporting mandatory distribution. Second, the risk of asylum procedures. In the European Commission's memo, published before the summit, it is clear that they want to harmonise asylum procedures. We are well aware of what this means: this poses the danger of removing from our hands the right to determine who we regard as refugees and whom we regard as economic immigrants. Thirdly, we must pay close attention to the financial risks. The European Commission would spend EUR 10.4 billion on immigration instead of the current 6.8 billion in the next seven-year budget cycle, which amounts to more than HUF 3000 billion, and this would be taken away from the existing programmes because of the withdrawal of the British. It's just, in this form, it's really, really not okay. These are the risks associated with decision-making in Brussels, and we did not even talk about the fact that tens of millions are still preparing to move towards Europe. [[14.20]] International authorities and analytical institutes estimate that only 3.6 million people in Turkey and 1 million immigrants in Libya are waiting to take the road to Europe. This alone is enough evidence to say that it is not a crisis of a few months. It would be good for the opposition parties to finally realize that this is a lasting phenomenon, because we still feel that they are in a state of persistent denial of reality and that there is little good coming from it. We encourage them to look at any major Western European country and they will see that migration, national identity and protection of Christian values have become the number one political issue everywhere. And that also means that there has not been an important European Parliament election like 2019 will decide what path Europe will choose for itself. The current road to Brussels is wrong, we often say this, and we will continue to say it if necessary, because there is a gap between the elite and the people on the issue of immigration. Our position has not changed: illegal immigration must be combated [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the borders must be protected and those who have come illegally must be returned to this compass for future action. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-30	Dear Parliament, At the end of the speeches before the agenda, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-07-02-31	Dear Parliament, Antal Paulik, a Slovak nationalist spoke after today's agenda; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Imre László, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Péter Ungár, LMP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Gergely Arató, DK; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; György Szilágyi, Jobbik; Olivio Kocsis-Cake, Dialogue; Erzs Schmuck, LMP; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; Erik Bánki, Fidesz. Sándor Székely, DK; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2018-07-02-32	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. The election of the notary of the Parliament will follow. On 13 June 2018, Mr.Sándor Bodó resigned as State Secretary. During the seven-party negotiations to prepare for the inaugural meeting, it was agreed that the Fidesz Group would propose to fill this notary. At the initiative of Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, the S/760 presented in the power of president. I propose that the Parliament elect Victor Vinnai as notary. The amendment cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the notary without debate. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Victor Vinnai as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Winner Vinnai as notary by 162 votes in favour. Dear House, The election of Commission officials and members will follow. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/761. The content of the personal proposal.
u2018-07-02-33	Dear Parliament, , 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: Parliament to the National Security Committee Tamás Vargha, Fidesz, instead of János Halász, Fidesz, Vice-President of the Committee; to the Economic Committee János Bencsik, Fidesz, instead of Attila Barcza, Fidesz; to the Committee on Budgets Sándor Bodó, Fidesz, László Böröcz, Fidesz, elected György Hubay, Fidesz, member of the Committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 2 July 2018 László Fat.
u2018-07-02-34	Dear Parliament, Now it's time to make a decision again. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/761. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The personal proposal was adopted unanimously by 163 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that the Attorney General is KSB.671/2018/3. Mr Sándor Burány, Speaker of Parliament, asked for the suspension of his immunity in public proceedings. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/769. Mr Sándor Burány presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. However, before the decision is taken, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-02-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the evening hours of 19 January, the Budapest Police Department held a traffic police inspection at the IX. district Boundary Road. Mr Sándor Burány's vehicle was also subject to this control. The congressman was ordered to spray an air alcohol measuring device, commonly known as a probe. This probe showed mild alcohol involvement. On the spot, the congressman admitted that he had been drinking alcohol before the start of driving, so the Attorney General turned to Parliament with a motion, because according to his view, the Btk. 236. In this case, there is a reasonable suspicion that a drunk driving offence has been committed in breach of paragraph (1). The immunity committee discussed the matter at today's meeting, and with 6 unanimous votes on the motion of the present Member Mr Burány, we also propose to the Parliament, on the one hand, that the Member may clarify his responsibilities and, on the other hand, that the Parliament protect its own authority by suspending the Member's right of immunity on the matter. Thank you.
u2018-07-02-36	I ask Mr Sándor Burány if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to. Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask this House whether Sándor Burány is suspending his immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously suspended the immunity of the Member by 162 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, At 2:28 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Are you willing to value your family members as home caregivers? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2018-07-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, With great humility to the cause, but with sufficient determination, we must speak among ourselves about the matter of the care fee. I am not standing here today to argue with you, but to speak out for the families who receive 52 thousand forints a month on this title. I believe that these families deserve real respect, not just that. And not only because, as good families in the world, loving each other more than anything else, when the situation and fate bring it so, they are pawning their own lives for each other, but also because a decent allowance would be possible from this budget. Whether you have the intention, Mr. Secretary of State, that is the only question. You know, my fellow Members, when you turned from one side to the other last night in your sleep, there was a Hungarian mother, not even one, who woke up this night every three hours to turn her helpless child around in her own bed. And when you were knitting your tie or wearing makeup this morning, there was a mother who was changing her 18-year-old daughter; there was a mother, not even a mother in Hungary, who fed her teenage child with a probe with a milkshake. [[14.30]] These are families every month, fellow Members. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Yours too!]] They're about a quarter of what they're getting for a care fee, just like your gas costs. Ladies and gentlemen, They paid 52 thousand forints 52,000 forints! You will receive a monthly, miserable HUF 52,000 for this superhuman service you volunteer for. You don't think that's right, do you? I ask my fellow Members, with a two-thirds mandate, to be kind behind their backs as one of their first provisions, to vote in favour of raising the care fee and fixing it to the minimum wage. I ask my fellow Members to give back the honor of these families, and if they do, they can keep their own. Secretary of State, would you do this? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-38	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-07-02-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Before I come to the merits of the subject, when you say that we should humbly stand on certain subjects, which, of course, is absolutely justified on this subject - we can also remember that although you believe that invisible forces have made a list when you were still a head of student councils, where I miss the obscene expressions, but this is the kind of list that will be good for Pista, you can remember that your name was also there for some reason. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik: Shame on you!]] You think it's just a coincidence about Újpest fan and other adjectives. There, you didn't show any of the humility, respect or respect you've seen. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik and DK: Shame on you! Márta Demeter: Shame on you! György Szilágyi: Bravo!]] He said that invisible forces somehow put together a list of stork names of 600, and that it was accompanied by disrespectful adjectives. Honourable Congressman, Besides talking about humility... [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK. Intercoms from Jobbik: Bravo! He's a real man. That's right. That's right.]] To talk about humility, I think it's a big change in character, which wasn't unprecedented in Jobbik. But let me get to that in substance. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks:]] What you have brought before the agenda, honourable Member. He asked if the government had any intention of helping in this area. If you knew the activities of the past years, you would see that the government had a very serious intention, and it has a very serious intention to continue to increase these people's form of support, because the government did not only raise the basic care fee and raise the premium, but also introduced a new category, which was an important financial opportunity for tens of thousands. We certainly hope it will mean as much as possible. With this special care fee, these families can get a higher amount. If a person received the highest-grade care fee in 2010 and received the highest-grade care fee in 2018, as well, since this new category, the priority care fee, was established above the increased-rate care fee, he will receive a total amount of 63 per cent higher than he received in 2010. It's a noticeable raise. Obviously, we also know that it would be good to increase these amounts even more, but, honourable Member, don't argue, let no one on the government side discuss their good intentions and their desire to help when we have actually made a 63 percent increase for those who are in the most difficult condition at home. We hope that we will be able to do even higher things in the coming years. It has also been overlooked, Mr President, that these years count into pension years, that health insurance contributions are added to the work that they do at home. This is a sign of our respect and appreciation for what we have done, every year since 2010, in every fiscal law we have ever done. [[László Varju: Not enough!]] It has also escaped the attention of the Member and the attention of the screaming Members - that if a person actually takes care of the sick child at home for a life of twenty years, then we also offer him a pension supplement of HUF 50,000 and a pension benefit, as obviously while he was caring for his child at home, although this included pension years, although he was receiving health care, but his salary and salary were obviously lower. Therefore, according to the pension calculation formula, his pension would also be lower, which is why we added this support for long-term care workers in old age, which amounts to HUF 50,000. That's another way to raise their pension. This is what we have done in recent years, and we hope that in the coming years we will be able to increase these items further, not as before 2010, when our predecessors have frozen these amounts. But not only in the area of home care, but also in the home of the needy, we also tried to increase the safety of people in need of help [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Therefore, while only 75,000 people in 2010, 90,000 people now benefit from this, and while only 5700 people in the past are now nursing them by 12,000 people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-40	I'll give the floor back to the congressman for a return answer.
u2018-07-02-41	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your reply. I find it difficult to decide whether you've had a solar flare or whether you're so unworthy of your public office because you're delirious. No wonder you didn't understand the question, because there was a number in it, 52 800 forints. Secretary of State, it seems, and we can be sure of your current career that you have not had so little monthly money, but there are many families in this country who are forced to make a living with that kind of money because of your inhumane and outrageous politics and governance. I don't accept your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-42	I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] House adopted the answer by 116 votes to 47, with no abstentions. [[Interviews from the ranks of DK: Shame on all of you!]] Dezső, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How do you see, Minister, you have something to do at the General School on Dózsa György út? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-07-02-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known to you, an extraordinary event took place on 13 April 2018 at Dózsa György út Singing-Music and Physical Education Primary School in Budapest. On the one hand, the press reported that there had been child abuse and, on the other hand, that the school principal had called the police to his 13 - year - old student. According to him, the student attacked and assaulted him in his office after being held accountable. In the course of the procedure at that time, the ambulance also examined the child, and a police report was made. According to the police, he's prosecuting a minor for suspicion of a criminal offence. The district center has no official record or knowledge of the events. They say they can't do anything until they do. Shocking events, excited parents, humiliated teachers and scared kids. The director's sitting in his seat, not hearing his voice, not having anything to say, and that's been happening for over 12 weeks. What usually happens is that there's news, and the principal has threatened teachers, parents, and children. At the previous school where he taught, he was supposed to slapped a child, and there he was forbidden to remain alone with a child. They say he used to be the Fidesz mayor of a birch village who wasn't re-elected, certainly not by accident, and received compensation from the board of directors. His identity was not supported by teachers, parents or the municipality when he was appointed. At that time, he had only two years of experience. According to the district center, parents were offered to go into their center and tell them if there's a problem, but no one went in. They don't understand why they don't, but they say they even have their contact details on their website. I'll help you: no one went in because they don't trust them because they're crooked. At the last public hearing of the district council, eight stakeholders said that Zsolt Putnoki is not only unfit for principal but also for educator, and 21 teachers announced his departure from school at this forum. It also turned out that more than 20 students left the institution in two days. The situation is devastating, teachers flee from this school at such a rate that only the number of children fleeing is comparable. How do you see, Mr. Secretary, you have something to do at the elementary school on Dózsa György Road? I look forward to your reply.
u2018-07-02-44	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2018-07-02-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me, in contrast to the rumors, to try to inform you of the facts, of what kind of teaching, what kind of employment, what kind of children's and youth protection, what kind of legality tests have been, which have been complete, and have sought to reveal all the facts that might justify breaking the law or exclude the law. [[14.40]] In the last two months, the district centre has tried to explore the entire situation on several platforms. I have to tell you that, until 10 hours on the 2nd of July 2018, no parent, student or employee complaints were received, but an anonymous notification was received earlier on another subject, but no information was received from the district centre. You have said about the facts, about the situation of being held accountable during a break, in which the Director asked for police action. On 10 June 2018, the head of the institution informed the district centre that the investigation and police proceedings in this regard had been closed by the police and that a decision had been taken. At the same time, there is another investigation which has been initiated by the police on its own initiative, which is under way, which is currently under way, and no one can know the result of that. As I have already mentioned, there has been a process of teaching, labour, child protection and youth protection. Let me present to you a date or two on which the district centre sought to reveal the whole facts and the whole sequence of events, in any case in far-reaching compliance with the legislation, seeking to be made clear. The district centre and the director also tried to contribute to this. On 26 April 2018, a hearing was held when the members of the school's Public Employee Council, the heads of the school-boss working community and the leaders of the parental organization were interviewed. At this hearing, no specifics were raised, according to the study district report. Then, on 3 May, the institutional council clarified the situation. Here too, the deputy director from the district center participated, but no specifics were given here either. On 7 May, the parenting community was then convened by the director at the request of the district centre, but no concrete infringement was reported here either. The fourth hearing was then held when the principal of the district centre himself went to school and held a reception class. Six teachers appeared on this. That's who the head of the district center was talking to. All teachers there had the opportunity to go there on the spot on May 15th, but none of them spoke of circumstances that would indicate the facts you indicated. Following this, Annex XIII is replaced by the text set out in Annex XIII to this Regulation. an open public hearing was held at the district mayor's office. Here, at the hearing of a political body, the matter is obviously given a somewhat more political tone, but no concrete complaint or announcement has been received. The honourable Member used the expression "news are on the rise." It doesn't matter if there's news on the air or if they're spreading news. According to the reports, the municipality has been at the forefront of trying to sharpen this situation as much as possible. It seems that instead of solving the situation, settling it, the local government is more interested in sharpening it. In summary, it was a very wide-ranging investigation. On several occasions, it was possible to make any specific complaint. The school district gave you every opportunity, and in every case, you followed the law. If, at any time, even in the current proceedings or at other times, there are exact facts of discrimination or abuse, then you can be sure that the district will take the necessary measures within the legal framework. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-02-46	Once again, it's the congressman's turn.
u2018-07-02-47	Just for clarification. The school district center indicated that a comprehensive study would be carried out in May. It's been done. During their promised inspection in May, whether they believe it or not, employment law was comprehensively examined at school. Congratulations. In my opinion, this was not the subject that should have been examined comprehensively. I think that if the director didn't think, out of honor and decency, that while such an investigation was being conducted against him in his institution, he should have asked for his discharge for this period, then you should have done so on behalf of the state. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]] That's a human deficiency for the director. By the way, throughout the course of the procedure, we have found that the director's conduct shows that he is also morally unfit as a director and educator. Mr President, I cannot accept the answer.
u2018-07-02-48	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 114 votes to 44, with one abstention. Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Why were pensioners fooled? It's an address. Zsolt Gréczy has the floor.
u2018-07-02-49	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Your party at the time was constantly trying to harass pensioners from the opposition, beating up the government in office because of the alleged distress of pensioners, and suggesting that by taking them into power, like everyone else, pensioners will do better. Well, KSH has already provided data on pensions and pension-like benefits in 2017. The first seven years of your governance can therefore be compared with the first seven years of the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments in terms of the situation of pensioners. Well, then, let's get some work done. At the time, the Swiss indexation of pensions was in place, the annual pension increase was not based on inflation, but on the average inflation and rise in earnings, which was beneficial for pensioners. In view of the crisis, the Bajnai government was forced to temporarily adjust the annual increase in pensions to inflation by recovering the Swiss indexation from the crisis. One of your first tasks was to change this law, while maintaining an increase in inflation. The Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments introduced and operated the 13th month pension [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] It is true that the Bajnai government was forced to put an end to this, which you were outraged about. [[György Balla: With the vote of Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] In fact, in the 2006 campaign, you promised a 14th month pension. But we know about Viktor Orbán: he lied. After eight years of government, there is no 14th month's pension or even 13th month's retirement. On the other hand, we have introduced a pension correction to correct the unfairly low benefits of retirement in the 1990s. You have not continued this in the last eight years since 2010. The minimum pension has kept pace with inflation in our time. In your seven years, that amount hasn't increased by a penny. On the other hand, the provision of pre-age pensioners, pensioners and disabled pensioners was cut. The latter are even humiliated by forcing them to undergo regular medical examinations in case their missing legs have grown. As a result, during the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, the average real value of pensions and pension-like benefits increased almost twice as much as during your seven years. During our seven years, the average pension was approaching the average salary, but in your seven years, it moved away from it. So I'm going to ask the Secretary of State why the pensioners were double-crossed, how long do you think they can be led by their noses? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-07-02-50	On behalf of the Prime Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources with responsibility and competence according to the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have been explaining for ten years why you took a monthly pension from every pensioner in Hungary [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We're not explaining anything!]] And they haven't been able to look the pensioners in the eye in ten years. [[Gergely Harvesto: We can! You're the only ones lying!]] Even now, the congressman uses all kinds of word flowers that he was forced to do it temporarily. You were not obliged and not temporarily, but you stood up here in Parliament and took a monthly pension from all Hungarian elderly people by roll-call vote. [[Cries, noise in the pro-government benches: That's right! Shame!]] since then, they have not dared to look pensioners in the eye - because you were not the pensioners most concerned, but what the IMF and the World Bank expect of you in Brussels. And if he asked you to do that, you took off, and you didn't dare say no to them, that Hungarian people are more important to us. [[Gergely Harvesto: Talk about your own government, please.]] And they weren't on the same road as us who reduced our taxes. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] and we raised wages because we trusted the Hungarian people, and we wanted to make good laws for them, but they accepted the same recipe that you received from Brussels or the World Bank or the IMF. Politically, they have also left the path that I apologize to you for bringing up as an example sometime in the mid-1990s, Gyula Horn appointed me [[Gergely Harvesto: Don't take it too hard.]] When he told you that you should never turn against your own tribal supporters. [[14.50]] But it was more important for you to ask for Brussels, the World Bank and the IMF than to think of your own voters, your own citizens. This was the moment when the people's trust in you turned around, and everyone was free to see that it wasn't in the interests of the people that you cared about. For you, Hungary is not the first, but it is the fact that with the media and financial support you have, I do not know how many things to support, especially foreign companies and expectations. For you, it is the foreign ratings that are important, not the interests of the Hungarian people. That's why they took a month's pension from all Hungarians. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Why didn't you give it back?]] Because it was not in the interests of the Hungarian people that you had first. They set a record, a negative record, since no one has reduced pensions since the change of regime. Some are smaller, some have raised it more or inflation has taken it away, but you have been able to reduce pensions, and you have thought that this will help us get out of the crisis. Look, Greece accepting the IMF's recipe continues to have the same problems. Thank God Hungary took a different path after 2010, so we do not have the same problems. And if their solidarity with pensioners is so high, perhaps even to Csaba Czeglédy, they could make one or two disgruntled remarks as to why he has not paid decent labour for the elderly. But he's also being protected here in Parliament, so it's not important for you pensioners. If you look at the extent to which pensions were raised between 2010 and 2018, you can see that there was a 29.8 percent increase in pensions in Hungary. If you look at the size of this increase in consumer value, the normal consumer basket is 10.1 per cent in terms of inflation, and by the way, 9.5 per cent if measured for the retired consumer basket. We measure it to the latter. This means that the purchasing value of pensions is nearly 10 percent higher. If we look at your period here and I'm glad you spoke as your own about the period 2002-2010, and at least you didn't play that distance, well, if you look at it - obviously that wouldn't be a fraction of it. And as I said, there was no one else who took a month's pension. We, on the other hand, have ensured this, and next year we will ensure that pensions retain their value. This was not such a simple commitment in 2010. If we look at how much the budget paid for the pension premium, we get HUF 24 billion. The pension supplements were also HUF 24 billion, and the HUF 81 billion Erzsébet vouchers paid for HUF 10-10 thousand to 2.7 million of pensioners or elderly recipients. This means that, in addition to the pension increase, we gave the elderly HUF 129 billion in benefits, which you would never have done. And then I didn't even talk about the Elisabeth programme, about the VAT reduction, about the reduction of the rent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-52	Once again, I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy.
u2018-07-02-53	Mr. Secretary of State's words were a confession. You didn't say you'd get your 13th month pension back. They promised that to the pensioners eight years ago. Orbán also promised the 14th month pension in 2006, when he felt that he was going to fail a second time in a row, but the pensioners didn't get it either. What you're talking about, a pension premium, was introduced by the MSZP-SZS government. I'm glad you're bragging, Mr. Secretary, about what you fought out of that eight years ago. And let us not forget the facts: in our time, the value of pensions was approaching real wages, and now the value of pensions is falling compared to real wages. And I wouldn't be particularly proud of the fact that even 27 percent of the VAT has to go to the grocery store and pay the world's largest VAT, which you, by the way, have thrown at this country. I can't accept the answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-07-02-54	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 114 votes to 39, with no abstentions. Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why should the Fidesz government invest the region in the interests of Paks and multinationals? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-07-02-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, The proper establishment and operation of the electricity grid is a very important task. However, improvements must not be without properly prepared planning, decision-making and implementation. There seems to be serious problems in this area, supported by hundreds of people's complaints that I have received. These are not specific grievances, but a general phenomenon that could lead any citizen to a similar situation. About the national spatial planning plan, Otrt. The Act sets out the harmonised spatial order of the country's technical infrastructure networks, including electricity transmission networks. However, the current law does not include the development phase of the Albertirsa-Kecskemét 400 kilopolt, and even the Otrt published in recent months. No comments were received. In the meantime, by now, the modified, but still unacceptable, environmental permit has been obtained at second instance. However, under Government Decree 2018/2009, this pipeline is a national element which should also be included in Otrt and, for example, in the Bács-Kiskun county spatial planning plan. The trail affects many settlements, hundreds of farms, Natura 2000 sites, and Csemő village has also clearly objected to the fact that the investment does not comply with the settlement plan. The only answer to that was to get them to adjust while giving Otr the whole authority. This has not been amended at the necessary legislative level. The environmental permit contains only some anti-damaging requirements, while ignoring and explaining the reasons for the appeal of local residents. They have undertaken to develop the farmland area on their own initiative to set an example, to create model farms, to build catering capacity, while deciding above their heads that in order to develop energy in the southern industrial area Kecskemét there are 400 kilogol networks running in environmental health and many other disputed proximitys. Dear Minister, How is the country's electricity grid being developed? Just a few investors need to override the legal framework, the interests and efforts of the rural population, and so billions of public funds are being spent? Do you or your ministry have any idea of the restoration of legality and local people's will? What new network development plans are being planned in 220, 400, 750 kilos of power lines in the coming years? Thank you, and I look forward to your reply.
u2018-07-02-56	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, One of the pillars of electricity supply is security of supply, and sectoral regulations are appropriate. It is essential that the energy needs of Hungarian society and the domestic economy are at all times satisfactory. This implies, as appropriate, that the development of supply network infrastructure elements is implemented and implemented in a timely manner. In line with European practice and regulatory environment, Mavir Zrt. development of its public transmission network is essentially based on technical requirements. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office approves the network development plan of the Hungarian electricity system, which the power grid licensees are obliged to implement by virtue of the law. The aim of the process is to ensure a European level of electricity security in the long term in changing circumstances, in particular with a significant increase in electricity demand. This is also true of the mentioned Albertirsa-Kecskemét 400 kilopolt wire. The continued operation of this task requires the operation and development of network infrastructure with a significant scale both in the EU and in Hungary. The national spatial planning plan currently in force also explicitly refers to a 400-kilot cable between Albertirsa-Kecskemét. The developments are included in the network development plan of the Hungarian electricity system, which is Mavir Zrt. available on the website. I would like to reassure Mr President that, when authorising the Albertirsa-Kecskemét wire which he has indicated, it is the authority and task of the authorities to ensure compliance with legality and legal requirements, which also covers spatial planning rules. In my view, the authorities concerned will guarantee legality. Honourable Congressman, It would be difficult to go without saying that you believe that the sacrifice and sacrifice of the countryside is currently taking place in Hungary. [[15.00]] It is true that there were eight years of Hungary when rural Hungarians were only secondary citizens for the government. This eight-year period was eight years of socialist-liberal government. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm from the country too, I resent it!]] On the other hand, today we can see that employment and job opportunities have moved back to the countryside, including in the form of industrial parks, factories and factories. The development you are complaining about will also increase the competitiveness and employment of the region in addition to the continued and safe supply of consumers living in that region. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The southern industrial park in Kecskemét, which you referred to, is one of the most important industrial centers of Hungary, the engine of Hungary's economic growth, and one of the first inventors of the latest industrial technology solutions. This site is currently investing in 2,500 new jobs, not to mention the beneficial effects of increasing supply capacity. The government is not sacrificing the countryside, but catching up, supporting the preservation and even prosperity of our traditional values, such as the rural tourism you mentioned. But it also supports the development of industry in competitive rural areas. These two pillars, traditional and modern, can only ensure the future of the Hungarian countryside together. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-58	Thank you very much, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2018-07-02-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In his answer, he left out one thing: the health aspects of the people living there, the quality of life of the people living there. Of course, the answer was in the past eight years, but he forgot to talk about why they didn't ask the people around Albertirsa, Cegléd and Cségő what they would say about this development, whether this development provides their health. Dear Secretary of State, Your government is running an energy spree, from which both the country and the population affected by each investment can only go wrong. Therefore, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-60	Thank you. Therefore, Congressman Antal Csárdi did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance: "Why not workers, why does the government reduce the burden on employers, and do they really give up workers over 55 years of age? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2018-07-02-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The day after Semmelweis, let me start by saying that the health system is on the verge of collapse. We all know that, maybe on the government side, people who think they're serious people don't deny that. Hundreds of billions of forints are missing from the system every year. The minimum pension, a certain HUF 28,500, has not been raised by a penny since 2010. There are hundreds of thousands of pensioners living under the minimum wage. These schemes should be financed from the social contribution tax. Still, we hear from the government on the road that he wants to reduce the tax wedge, but what we don't hear is that he would transfer extra funds to the health system or the pension system to compensate for this tax reduction. The government therefore decided not to be interested in patients and workers in the healthcare system, not to be interested in elderly Hungarian citizens who are poor under the minimum living age. The government wants to reduce the tax wedge. Okay, now that you are unwavering in this, let me draw your attention to the fact that the tax wedge is both the employee and the employer's taxes. The social contribution tax will be reduced from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent, leaving nearly HUF 100 billion more than businesses. However, there is no guarantee that they will use this surplus to increase employee wages. It seems that the employees will not be able to detect anything from this government measure. The government, therefore, again sided with capital against the workers. However, Hungarian workers deserve to increase their net income if the government is already proclaiming that they are declaring a work-based state instead of a welfare state, and if Hungarian wages are pitifully low in international comparison, in a regional context. Of the 35 countries of the OECD, Hungary is ranked 34th, so it is the last, and the Central European countries give 10-16 percent higher gross wages, and Mexico is the only one behind us. And let us add that if we are in this together, in which Hungary is living, it is the rate of tax on low incomes. Here, however, we are second at the minimum wage level in terms of withdrawal and other wage burdens. Accordingly, if you really think that the competitive advantage is a reduction in the tax wedge, you should be willing to reduce this famous tax wedge in such a way that the employee has more in his pocket, rather than the profits of the companies. So my question is, if there is any reduction in the tax wedge, why not reduce the burden on workers. Where, on the other hand, there would be room for reducing the employer's burden, it would be a benefit for people over the age of 55, since we know how difficult it is to find work over such an age. My question is whether the government is really going to give up their 55-year-olds, whether they are actually going to lose the benefit they receive. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-62	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2018-07-02-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! When we heard or read his interpellation, it was also my personal opinion that he was expressing things as if he thought that decisions on the labour market were made in some distant dimness, closed to everyone, and idea-like. I must completely refuse to do so. If my word is not sufficient, I suggest that you take into account the data that is clearly public. Today 4.4 million people in Hungary do value-making work, which, I think, is an exemplary number. It should also be seen that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase are predictable, agreed with the partners. In your view, there is no guarantee that the reduction in costs resulting from the reduction in the social contribution tax will be used by businesses to increase workers' wages. Well, I deny you factually, because the rate of wage increase is several times higher than the reduction in the social contribution tax. In 2017, the contribution tax decreased by 5 percentage points, while gross and net earnings in the competitive sector increased by 11,6 percent. In 2018, with a further 2.5 percent reduction in the social contribution tax, average earnings increased by 10.8 percent in the first third of the year. The relationship between the two phenomena is quite clear. Of course, there is not only an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, but this is felt in all income bands. He asked about the fate of employee contributions. Well, that's pretty clear to all public figures, because here you have to provide the individual with social security, such as pensions, sick pay, health contributions. With regard to the tax wedge, I can also give you a specific answer, in two years, from 2016 to 18, the tax wedge decreased from 48.3 percent to 45%. And some more data on the employment of people over 55 years of age. The introduction of the job protection action, i.e. the employment of people over the age of 55 has increased by 30 percent, by 160 thousand since 13th. The employment rate increased significantly faster than the EU average by 13,8 percent for older workers. In the last year, some 350 thousand workers over 55 years of age were supported in the framework of the job protection action, leaving more than HUF 40 billion to the companies of the competition sector. I'm sure you know that the conditions of the labour market have changed considerably today. But the discount system should no longer be aimed primarily at protecting jobs, but indeed at helping those in distress and involving new people in the labour market. [[15.10]] Maintaining the benefit for all is no longer necessarily justified, and the new rules provide much more favourable conditions for the employment of those facing pensions. A concrete example of this is the benefit of new entrants to the labour market, as it provides preferential employment for everyone who has been unemployed for at least 6 months out of 9 months. These are concrete facts, Congressman, and I suggest that, taking these into account, you also have an open mind in the world of the labour market, and that you be familiar with additional programmes such as the "Road to the labour market" [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Which also helps people over the age of 50. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-64	Thank you very much, Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State. I'll ask Congressman Bence Tordai if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-07-02-65	I am pleased that the Secretary of State's response has given us some concrete information, such as that they are now taking away this contribution allowance for people over the age of 55 from 350,000 people. Why, I didn't get a meaningful answer. I think that the person who watches the Hungarian labour market as a job seeker will not believe the pro-government discussion about how easy it is to find a job approaching the retirement age. Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to hear this much on the other question. The question was that if they found HUF 100 billion to reduce the tax wedge, they would leave it with employees or employers. The Fidesz government serves the interests of capital and not the interests of the employee. From now on, it seems that there was no question, and there is no reason why they left this 100 billion to the capitalists and not to the working people. I don't accept the answer.
u2018-07-02-66	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence Tordai did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes to 43, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mihály Balla, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What is the balance sheet of the Hungarian V4 Presidency? It's an address. Mr Mihály Balla has the floor.
u2018-07-02-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago Prime Minister Viktor Orbán handed over the Visegrád cooperation, the V4's Presidential Staff to his Slovak colleague Peter Pellegrini. Our country has served as President for a year, so it is worth looking back at the past period. First of all, we can say that the Visegrád Group is in good shape, with a successful 12 months behind us. I am not thinking primarily of ourselves, the Hungarian Presidency, but of all these four countries. The fact is that it is now the most successful region on the continent. There is the greatest economic growth, persistently low unemployment and high competitiveness. This is the economic engine of the European Union today, without us there would be no growth. Slovakia has achieved unparalleled successes over the last decade, so we have no reason to worry that Bratislava will have the presidency of the Visegrád Four. Secondly, I think it is important to note that the Visegrád Four are united on the most important issues, in a sense, on matters of fate. Whatever success these four countries are individually, we are aware of the population, the size of our countries' markets, and we know that together our word matters much more. The most important issue is migration in the EU today. All four of us agreed that Europe should be able to protect its own citizens, which is a prerequisite for protecting its external borders. We also agree that the next budget of the European Union should be spent not on migrants, but on European people, and we will stand up to enforce it. It is of symbolic importance that the Chancellor of Austria was also present at the meeting of the Presidency. Austria is the President of the Council of the European Union from last weekend, and since, like us, it believes that we need to protect Europe's external borders together, it is quite clear that we do not have to fear that the Austrian Presidency will come up with a pro-immigration proposal. The Visegráds and Austria are united in this regard and it seems very much that Italy is starting to follow this policy. Dear Secretary of State, In view of all this, how do you see our last one-year Presidency, and what can we expect in the next 12 months? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-68	Thank you, Congressman Mihály Balla. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2018-07-02-69	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the word and your question. I can inform you that the V4 is strong and united, never as strong and united as it is today. Our economic and political weight is also significant, and we need to pay attention to what the V4 say and listen to what we say. I am able to inform you that the Hungarian Presidency organised more than 250 political meetings and professional events, these were possible to agree and coordinate positions, and we paid particular attention to the importance of social representation for V4. We have placed great emphasis on societies meeting what V4 means. It was a number of cultural programmes, sporting events, television programmes through which tens of thousands of people could experience the feeling of Central Europe's cohesion and thus show that V4 is more than just a diplomatic forum. We had four goals: European Visegrad, Regional Visegrad, Digital Visegrad and Global Visegrad. With regard to European Visegrad, I can say that it is in the view that we want a fully united Europe based on strong nation states, and we do not support the European solution, which is called the United States of Europe, which is the model of the United States of America. We do not want to give Brussels any more powers, because we see that Brussels solutions do not work with regard to the challenges of today, as opposed to national state solutions. The position of the V4 on migration is also completely identical. We want strong border protection, we reject quota, and hotspots must be created outside Europe, according to the V4 position. We can see and we are pleased that we have achieved results together over the past week and over the past period, and I am thinking of the mandatory quota, which is no longer on the agenda today, although we do not shout it out, but migration and debate will continue, which means that the threat will remain with us. On the regional Visegrad issue, I would like to inform the honourable Member that we have stood up for the enlargement of the EU in the Western Balkans in all forums and have continued our dialogue with our Eastern European partners. In order to strengthen digital Visegrád, we have launched programmes to support the collaboration of V4 researchers and the mobility of innovative startup businesses, as well as the acquisition and promotion of foreign knowledge. With regard to the global Visegrad, I would like to say that we have organised the V4 plus Egypt summit, and we have organised the first V4 plus Israel summit, where we have agreed not only on the management of migration and the fight against terrorism, but we have also launched joint working groups in the areas of innovation and security. It is also important to point out, honourable Member, that for the first time in the history of the V4 we have made a joint offer of EUR 35 million in support of border protection in Libya. With regard to our economic weight, I would like to inform you of some more data which, I believe, are more talkative than anything else. In 2017, the average rate of growth in EU countries was 2.5 per cent, while the average rate of V4 growth last year was 4.1 per cent. The average annual economic growth in the European Union between 2010 and 17 was 1.5 per cent, while for the Visegrad countries the average was 2.7 per cent. With regard to the unemployment rate, I can say that last year the V4 average was 5 per cent and the EU average was 7.6 per cent, the Hungarian figure is known as 3.8 per cent. Which, even in a European outlook, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] our economic weight is shown by the fact that V4 German trade traffic exceeded German-French turnover by 65% last year; this also shows that we have to be politically and economically accountable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-70	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. I will ask Mr Mihály Balla if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] [[15.20]]
u2018-07-02-71	Yes, thank you very much. I accept the answer, however my fellow Member Arató says, and on the other hand there is a year behind us, which, I think, is really about the period for Hungary and Central Europe, the Visegrád Four, which can mean strengthening and strengthening cohesion. On the other hand, I also accept your reply to the Secretary of State because we have included issues in which we are talking about the development of countries and Central Europe on the one hand, and I am also confident that Parliament's cooperation, which has now been given new power in recent years, whether it is the various level of committee or the level of Speaker, I hope that the Slovak Presidency and the forthcoming presidencies will continue to be strengthened in the coming years. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Will Hungary join the European Public Prosecutor's Office? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2018-07-02-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, From Central and Eastern Europe, only Hungary has not joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office under the enhanced cooperation procedure, i.e. two EU Member States which have very serious problems with the level of corruption on the government side. In the next financial planning period 2021-27, the rule of law mechanism could be introduced in relation to the allocation of EU funds, with clear negative consequences for our country, as the government and the Fidesz-KNDP Party Association are crushing the democratic institutional system. Our negotiating position is seriously weakened by your rigid isolation from the support of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Hungarian settlements, businesses and honest compatriots may suffer, although Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates may be sad if they can steal less money. We must say that corruption in Orbán is a threat to EU support. The huge failure of the Orbán government is that, while Hungary's economy remains heavily dependent on EU funds, as, in recent years, while one-off investments have been decisive, small and medium-sized enterprises are in a desperate situation and wages are far from those of the Western and even the surrounding Member States. Jobbik believes that instead of prestige investments, the focus should be on creating employment-enhancing goals, improving health, education and the social sphere, as Hungarians would see the results. I would also like to remind you that last November 48 EU proposals were reviewed by the auditors of the European Commission, of which 44 did not pass this study. Based on this, Hungary can receive a penalty of HUF 100-150 billion. Among those involved are Lőrinc Mészáros's companies and István Bajkai's Fidesz attorney's office. So they have plenty to hide, no wonder they're so afraid of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Fidesz government skimmes EU funds with the practice of legitimised corruption, making less of them reach Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, Hungarian taxpayers. There's nothing more to show than that Lőrinc Mészáros would be able to pay this punishment on his own. At the same time, we should not doubt that if we arrive at the payment of the penalty, it will also happen in the pockets of the Hungarians, and they will be stolen a second time. In contrast to the current practice, Jobbik is interested in a more transparent tender system to support small and medium-sized enterprises, as this is the way to achieve the long-term strengthening of the Hungarian economy and the rise in the standard of living of Hungarians. Dear Secretary of State, Will they reconsider their previous position and support Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, or will they continue to put the service of Fidesz buddies before the interests of our honest compatriots? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-74	Thank you, Congressman Tibor Bana. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2018-07-02-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, If I may, Mr President, I will overlook the horse-zung you have brought up, I will try to give you a professional answer to the basic question. So, overall, the Hungarian Government has always agreed with the fundamental objectives and aspirations behind the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Member States have a fundamental common interest in combating crimes affecting the European Union's financial interests. In this spirit, we have been taking part in the negotiations of the draft regulation establishing a European Public Prosecutor's Office through serious professional work, constructively. At the same time, by setting up the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Member States undertake to limit their criminal sovereignty and one of the essential functions of the State, to transfer some of their most important powers to the European Union. Accession to the Regulation can only be accepted if it fully respects the constitutional arrangements of the Member States and fundamental principles of European Union law such as subsidiarity and proportionality. However, the text of the regulation in the Council's negotiations does not meet our basic principles and professional expectations, such as respect for national sovereignty and constitutional arrangements, which Jobbik has previously considered important, or the organisational and procedural framework to ensure effective functioning, as well as the added value at EU and national level. During the drafting of the draft regulation, we have made a number of technical arguments, but unfortunately, despite our efforts, the legislation was finally adopted with a text that we believe will not be able to guarantee that the protection of the Union's financial interests will indeed be more effective in the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Hungarian Government also opposes, at the level of principle, efforts in relation to the multi-annual financial framework between 2021-27 that would link the allocation, disbursement and control of the use of EU funds in any way with participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This is contrary to the Lisbon Treaty. In the absence of the agreement of several Member States, the European Public Prosecutor's Office would like to add a list of Members... In addition to Hungary and Poland, Ireland, Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden have not yet joined the pan-European draft. This is how the ratification was established in the framework of cooperation, and under the Treaties, such cooperation should not result in discrimination between Member States and should respect the competences, rights and obligations of Member States which do not participate in cooperation. Hungary's interests would be put at risk by giving up its professional convictions with a view to law enforcement interests and not consistently sticking to the core values of the European Union, fearing an initiative that is contrary to the spirit of the Treaties. Nevertheless, it should be stressed that Hungary will cooperate with the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the Hungarian authorities will continue to pay particular attention to cooperation with existing and well-functioning European agencies in order to maximise the effectiveness of law enforcement activities in Eurojust, OLAF, which, while maintaining its importance, the Hungarian Government usually stands out in European forums. In summary, it is very interesting to compare the comments made in Jobbik's benches, say, eight years ago, on the functioning of the Union and its functioning, and the speeches that are being made: you can virtually fuzio with the left-wing parties, and I see no difference between the speeches. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-76	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. I'll ask Congressman Tibor Bana if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-07-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, His reply was extremely shady, as he said that the Fidesz government had always agreed with the idea of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and then underlined that Hungary does not wish to join this organisation within the framework of the enhanced cooperation procedure, although it would clearly have powers and powers in relation to the use of EU funds. And if we look forward to the next period, 2021-27, then Hungary, health, education, the social sphere and our decent compatriots may indeed suffer serious loss of resources in the implementation of the rule of law mechanism. Of course, for you, it is not the self-determination of Hungary that is the first, but the interests of the oligarchs, Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates, who have been channeled to you, that is why they do not wish to join this procedure, and therefore they do not want to support the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because the most important thing is the theft for the Fidesz government and the maintenance of a corrupt system of use of EU funds. I can't accept that false answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-78	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes to 39, with one abstention. [[15.30]] Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a portfolio for the design, construction and commissioning of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant: It's an address. Congressman András Aradski has the floor.
u2018-07-02-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, The Government of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association has always considered it crucial to strengthen public engagement in energy, bearing in mind fundamental national interests, as this will ensure the future guarantee of affordable and secure electricity supply for domestic electricity consumers. With these objectives in mind, the January 2014 Interstate Agreement between Russia and Hungary, which was otherwise approved by Parliament, will be built by two of the most modern 3 + generation, VVR-1200 nuclear power plants in the Paks site until 2026 and 2027 as planned. The European Union has also given its blessing to this project. Capacity maintenance is absolutely necessary in Hungary, as we have been able to secure Hungary's electricity demand by almost 30 percent annually. In the first five months of this year, imports reached 34.5 percent. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] It is therefore in our national interest to increase production capacity in Hungary in the future for long-term, secure power supply. Hungary also supports the production of renewable electricity, as it contributes significantly to the achievement of our country's climate protection objectives, the reduction of imports and thus to the creation of safe supply. The two new Paks blocks will serve the interests of all Hungarians, including my fellow Members. At the same time, Paks II. According to its opponents, the time for nuclear energy is over, and the future is only renewables. On the other hand, the government's right position is that both energy sources are capable of achieving our climate policy goal, which will serve to eliminate and reduce global climate change and thus reduce weather phenomena, which often cause disaster. Everyone sees, for example, that in agriculture there is considerable damage to such investments, without investments in renewables and nuclear power plants, that forest fires are multiplying, that in some countries there may be a shortage of water due to climate change, and that this may result in waves of refugees. For our sustainable development, therefore, it is particularly essential that the Paris Climate Convention, as a result of the international cooperation, can be fulfilled, as climate change is also greatly influenced by human energy consumption patterns and sources of energy production. Dear Minister, In view of this, it is clear to us that our country is vital to have a competitive electricity system that meets climate protection and security of supply objectives. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister which ways of producing electricity can be achieved through increasing use of the objectives set out in the Paris Climate Change Convention. What is the vision of global atomic energy? Is this industry, or is it really on the move? Where in the world is the VVR-1200 block to be built, built or built in the framework of the Paks II project? I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-80	Thank you very much, Congressman András Aradski. I give the floor to Minister János Süli.
u2018-07-02-81	[[Without sound:]] Mr President, Dear fellow Member, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-07-02-82	Just a moment, please. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-07-02-83	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear House, Thank you for the question that I can contribute to clarifying the situation at the moment. It is clear that Earth's climate change is showing negative trends. This is based on a number of scientific studies, and until we can provide other support, it should be assumed that this is the result of greenhouse gases, essentially carbon dioxide emissions. In recent years, emissions from industrial production have been a significant part of greenhouse gas emissions, energy production, heat supply and electricity generation, and agricultural production also generates carbon dioxide emissions. The level of CO2 emissions has clearly increased over the past period and has never been seen. The only way to eliminate the negative impacts of climate change is to prevent and contain the emissions of these gases. It is clear that industrial growth, car transport and electric mobility will also result in sustainable development without electricity generation. Therefore, efforts in countless countries around the world show that we cannot meet this goal in any other way, only with nuclear power plants and renewable energy production, if we try to meet these goals. We have two problems with renewable production: one problem is that electricity is not always available and the other is that we cannot store and store electricity in Hungary. Therefore, Hungary has no other option but to continue the expansion of the nuclear power plant, in which, on 30 March 2009, with 95.4 percent support in this House, it was decided to start this work in a four-party agreement. The question is also whether such nuclear power plants are being built elsewhere and whether we can confirm that this is a very important effort for the world. I can tell you that at the moment there are 58 similar power plants under construction, and clearly 48 of them are about the design and construction of nuclear blocks like Paks. It is also interesting to think that some of these blocks all concern Europe, but also the Arab world. So there is no way to argue whether there is a number of sunny hours, whether there is wind, but it is clear that they are all available, and yet the United Arab Emirates is building four blocks, and now these blocks are being built, and the first block is being installed. Saudi Arabia has also ordered 16 blocks, which will be tendered. So they also make us wonder how it is that we always talk about them negatively, and in countries where the number of sunny hours is much more than we do, there is also a trend for the nuclear power plant. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So thank you for letting me say that it is clear that in many parts of the world a nuclear power plant is being built so that we can meet and maintain climate protection objectives. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-84	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Minister's reply.
u2018-07-02-85	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I'll be shorter than my previous comment. Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which I can accept, because it is clear from what you have said that the direction and structure of the Hungarian energy policy, the source of capacity, is in line with the world's trend. If we add that India and China, which play a significant role in the Paris climate agreement, can serve climate policy goals with the help of a nuclear power plant, then I can say that Hungary is on its way to making energy production predominantly decarbonised in Hungary. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2018-07-02-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation agenda is over, and we're moving to immediate questioning. Time: 15 hours and 40 minutes. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2018-07-02-87	Mr President, It's a promising opportunity, but I'd like to wait for Mr. Prime Minister to respond personally. Thank you.
u2018-07-02-88	Thank you. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask an immediate question to Minister Zsolt Semjén without his wallet: you went hunting, you shot him, the helicopter took him home, or we will talk about hunting until the dialogue on this is centrally banned! It's an address. The Minister's duty as a public servant [[A statement from the opposition: He's hunting!]] in response, Mr János Potápi appointed Secretary of State. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-07-02-89	Mr President, I suppose Zsolt Semjén is pursuing bears in the country as a strictly private person with a loaded gun, so I'll wait for him to return to Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-90	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "How long will we stand by and watch the harmful consequences of the weakening of the forint? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel nodds.]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat indicates that he did. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-02-91	Mr President, Dear House, In the course of the budgetary debate, we have already decided that, while the draft budget was planned for the 320 exchange rate, it is known that 330 has already been exceeded by the forint exchange rate, thus a demonstrable weakening undermines the budget's planning. And it seems obvious that the government does not want, does not want to take any responsibility for the issue, will shift everything to the Hungarian National Bank. But I think that it would be worth discussing the extent to which Hungary's Government would take responsibility for non-involvement in terms of the fact that they would have opportunities for the whole framework. It is lenient that inflation is practically increasing continuously, increasing to a level of 3 per cent, it is virtually now on the level, and then it is expected to increase further. On the other hand, the central bank base rate is below 1 per cent, on which I do not wish to open a debate, as I do not want new and extra charges to be imposed on credit victims or new forint-credit holders, but I do see that the Hungarian National Bank's idleness and the government's idleness have led the commercial banks concerned to start raising interest rates on their own, so they have started to price the market and want to impose unsatisfying and unjustified burdens on the Hungarian credit victims. At the same time, the government, but especially the MNB in many cases, could have intervened in substance by telling us that the era of cheap interest rates would end and mark the point where he would carry out intervention. This could have avoided either raising interest rates or imposing additional burdens on credit victims. So the question is: in addition to pointing to the MNB, or instead, is the government willing to do anything about it? Thank you.
u2018-07-02-92	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2018-07-02-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the present case, it is necessary to examine what international trends are, that only the weakening of the forint is true of the currencies of the typical or other countries. What we see is that if we look at the region, not only the forint is weakening, but also the Czech krona, for example, in Central European countries, although the central bank has intervened four times, or in Poland the złoty moves like the Hungarian forint. So we're talking about an international impact. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Still no speculation?]] Therefore, to say that the Hungarian government and Hungary are responsible here, I think that this does not cover reality. The budgetary impact of the exchange rate change should be examined: in this case, the budget is not affected, so the result is balance neutral. It is very important to say that the Hungarian government did the right thing when it issued foreign exchange loans; while in 2009 the ratio of foreign currency loans was over 70 percent, now it is 1 percent and only 70 billion HUF. I would like to note here that, for example, you did not vote for this law, which brought the Hungarian families out of the foreign exchange crisis. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Because you are traitors, you are not! Z. Carpathian to Dániel Menczer Tamás: Don't look.]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you read the appropriate laws, you can know that the Hungarian government has no intervention, because the Hungarian National Bank can do so. The steps of the Hungarian National Bank are, of course, supported by the Hungarian government in all cases. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-94	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Record that...]]
u2018-07-02-95	Mr President, Dear House, The question is where Soros is from the answer, because so far, Mr. Secretary of State's colleagues have been talking about some kind of international conspiracy or speculation bomb, and now he's talking about an international impact. Secretary of State, you screamed loudly from opposition to the government at the time when you betrayed the government at that time because of exchange rate changes. I will not do this to you, I did not create the false impression that only the Government of Hungary has an influence on the exchange rate of the forint, because that is simply not true, that would be indefensible on a professional basis. But I must say that the Hungarian National Bank and you have a responsibility in this matter. I would like to know whether, let us say, at the Budget Council meetings, the issue of the negative consequences of the weak forint exchange rate on the currency debt that has been reduced but still in existence has been raised. But, Mr. Secretary, to tell you that you would have saved the people who are in foreign exchange loans, it's a net lie, don't try to do that in a residential forum. Answer me, please, where is the point where you intervene in order to strengthen the forint, without imposing extra burdens on the credit victims. Answer that.
u2018-07-02-96	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2018-07-02-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think your speech is a true reflection of Jobbik's policy today. [[Interviews from Jobbik, among others: Professional?]] You're asking the government for an intervention that it can't do by law, any action on the part of the government would be illegal and irresponsible. But I'm not surprised because we're looking at your activities. You have accepted prohibited party funding [[Moore in the opposition benches.]] In the campaign, which now requires reimbursing to the state with punishment. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Tell that to the foreign exchange guys.]] But not only have you accepted illegal party funding, you have collected from private people to pay the fine. They didn't pay for it. They tricked the privates, spent the money on the campaign. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: This is a professional...]] Now, let's not be surprised that you're asking the government to account for something that the law doesn't allow. [[György Szilágyi: Why? Professionally, why?]] And this, please note that these steps fall within the competence of the Hungarian National Bank. By the way, the other two parties know because they ask the Hungarian National Bank and not the government. You don't know. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Coward! György Szilágyi: Mafia!]]
u2018-07-02-98	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The biggest question of the past week: euro or kuna? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Tamás Belling nods.]] Congressman Tamás Harangozó says yes. You have the floor. [[15.50]]
u2018-07-02-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, last week there were very interesting exchange rate movements, the euro's exchange rate rose enormously, and Kuna's fell enormously. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about the Croatian national currency, but I'm talking about Tibor Kuna, the political exchange rate of the Royal House Media and Advertising Supplier of the Orbán Government, because it was nothing less than the prosecution's accusation of a particularly high-value fiscal fraud and the use of false private documents, asking for imprisonment and confiscation. The latter will not be difficult for the D.A.'s office, since this good man is one of the hundred richest Hungarians, thanks to Fidesz. Its estimated assets are just 12.5 billion, and just to list a few things that you have contributed to this in recent years, Minister: in 2016 Szerencség Zrt. - a contract for communication of 10 billion; in 2017 communication of 5 billion World Water Championships; 2 billion events; Gambling in the same year is another 9.3 billion. But to say one more human movement, he also organized a religious conference for the government for 80 million forints. Dear Minister, Your fellow minister, Péter Szijjártó, said the following about Tibor Kuna: I have known Tibor Kuna, the boss of the company for a very long time. He worked at the Ministry of Youth when we were in government between 1998 and 2002, and I came into contact with him as a youth leader. We've been friends ever since, and I can say we're friends. I know them, and I have a good opinion of them, and I think they're a good company. When I worked at the Prime Minister's Office, we worked together for a short time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask you if, once the members of the government have been left out of criminal proceedings, someone in this country is finally taking political responsibility. And even if Peter Szijjártó doesn't, Antal Rogán has to answer that question, and I am waiting for you to answer it on his behalf.
u2018-07-02-100	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Bellozó. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2018-07-02-101	[[His mic won't say.]] Thank you for the floor... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-07-02-102	Is your card in there? [[Moraj and interventions from the benches of opposition parties: It does not work with a credit card! Credit card... gergely Gulyás inserts his card.]] Thank you very much. Here.
u2018-07-02-103	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The statement you regularly repeat is that there are serious problems with the rule of law in Hungary, and therefore those who, in some sense, have considered you to be close to the ruling parties, are treated in a special way. This case in itself refutes this claim. All we can say is that what's on the news is that the D.A. has actually filed charges against Tibor Kuna. He also proposed confiscation of property for the damage caused. We can say that, after the decision of the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee, the company was subject to the so-called exclusion, it could not be covered by a public procurement framework contract either. This proves that your claim is untrue, that the laws in Hungary apply to everyone, and that they must be respected by everyone. And in connection with criminal proceedings, the parliamentary law also precludes us from discussing the details here, which is a matter for the court. It shows that no one is above the law. Innocence is a prerogative for everyone. So for the time being, all we can say is that it is true that the prosecution has filed charges against Tibor Kuna. For the time being, the extent to which the charge relates, whether it is related in any respect to the contracts with the State, not only to such data, but also to the contrary data. It is suspected that it is only tax evasion that arose between the charges, so it was not in a contractual relationship with the State that committed the alleged crime. This only proves that the rule of law and the institutional system of the rule of law are in place in Hungary and that no one is above the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-02-104	Thank you, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Mr. Tamás Harangozó is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2018-07-02-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. His response was impertinent, not to me, to the taxpayers. Mr. Secretary. This man's been getting a lot of overpriced contracts from you all these years, and, yes, the prosecution is saying that he even wanted to steal what he was supposed to pay back on taxes. This man was so arrogant about your friendship that he claimed to be such a successful entrepreneur by God's grace. As they say, yes, the Lord has given it, the Lord has taken it. If what was said about him is true, then we can say for sure that he will have time to study the Ten Commandments, in particular the Eighth, "Don't steal!" in the coming years. But this is also true of your colleague, Minister, who, in recent years, in front of the whole country, have given all the contracts of God's grace. Antal Rogán's political responsibility in this matter cannot be avoided, and it would be time if it were not in a European country, but even in the system of national cooperation, to be removed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the minister involved in this. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of MSZP, DK, LMP, Dialogue.]]
u2018-07-02-106	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2018-07-02-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. For 28 years now, we have not lived in a time when politics has made decisions in criminal proceedings. [[Moraj and voices from the benches of opposition parties, among others: Oh!]] We therefore know, for the moment, that the prosecution has prosecuted; we know that until it is established that the crime has been committed definitively, the presumption of innocence is due to everyone; and we know that the subject of the charge is an act which was not in connection with a contractual relationship with the State. From this point on, we can only say that in Hungary the institution system of the rule of law is functioning well, and the laws apply to everyone, including those who you have been constantly referring to for years to Fidesz. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-02-108	Thank you, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, László Varju, DK's imager, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. Where is the end of the tunnel? It's an address. The President of the National Bank of Hungary has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr László Varju if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-07-02-109	In view of the situation, yes, I accept the identity of the responder.
u2018-07-02-110	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2018-07-02-111	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I am truly sorry that you will have to answer my question in this form, as you would have had the opportunity to discuss at the Committee on Budgets the situation in which monetary developments are taking place, and in particular what you think of the fall in exchange rates itself, but you have rejected this in a round pretzel. In the rejection, it was first claimed that the Economic Committee was responsible for your hearing. In this case, you are formally right, but it is debatable that at the time of the budget negotiations, any fact that concerns the budget can make a meaningful impact on the budget, and it belongs to the Committee on Budgets. If the budget planning is based on the fact that the euro's exchange rate is slightly above 311 forints, while at the same time it has reached 330 forints at the moment, it is likely to have a meaningful impact on the budget. I therefore believe that you must respond, and that we rightly expect an answer from the President of the Central Bank. On the other hand, it was argued that, under the law, it is the responsibility of the central bank to ensure price stability. This is undisputed, but there is no doubt that this HUF exchange rate, as some analysts say, will affect the credit debt in the budget, and you should respond accordingly. That is why I am asking whether the budget is planned in the Fiscal Council to be disproved or vetoed because inflation figures differ significantly from what the government otherwise counts. What course of the euro-forint exchange rate are you counting on? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For the next year and a half? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-07-02-112	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. I give the floor to Vice-President Martin the Great.
u2018-07-02-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Basically, you yourself rightly stated that the President of the Hungarian National Bank is responsible for reporting to the Economic Committee. On the basis of the argument that the Committee on Budgets will listen to the president in terms of the budget, this is what I can say, since your question was also about the impact of the exchange rate of the forint on budgetary policy. We believe that this is not within the MNB's remit. [[16.00]] The budget therefore falls within the remit of the Ministry of Finance and is the responsibility of the Board of Budgets; the issue of price stability or inflation is the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank. So I can say that the fact that the President of the MNB is involved in the work of the Board of Budgets, which is really responsible for preparing the law on the central budget, however, I must say that the work of the Board of Budgets is represented by its President, Árpád Kovács, on the basis of the Stability Act, so that the President of the MNB does not have representative powers in this respect. I want the committee to respect that. At the request of the Economic Committee, the MNB will appear with a reporting obligation. As far as the macroeconomic path you are concerned is concerned, this assumption is wrong. The law only mentions the macroeconomic path included in the Budget Act in relation to the source of the conditions, so it does not mention that the members of the Fiscal Council also have a macroeconomic path. and there is a 4.1 percent increase and 2.7 percent inflation in the budget submitted, so there is no need for any changes. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-114	Thank you, Vice President Martin the Great. Congressman Varju has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-07-02-115	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I would like to remind you that you, the Hungarian National Bank, were the only one who published that the inflation rate was 3.1 percent the following year, and since then not only because of our awareness-raising, but you also perceive that the exchange rate has reached HUF 330. You don't think this will have any impact on the budget? Will it have no impact on inflation? I think that's what you've been telling me. It's pure bullshit. That is why I consider it appropriate to inform the Committee on Budgets. Or are they just trying to increase their profits in the Hungarian National Bank as a result of the increase in the exchange rate, which they actually intend to use to steal and transfer to foundations? Dear Vice President, So I can't accept that answer.
u2018-07-02-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. The vice-president shall have the right to a rejoinder.
u2018-07-02-117	Thank you very much. I can also say that the primary objective of the Hungarian National Bank and I ask that, under the law, this is also respected by achieving and maintaining price stability, which means achieving and maintaining a 3% inflation target. It is very important to emphasise and every word here has a weight - that the MNB takes into account all factors affecting monetary policy's time horizon, inflation. These factors may include developments in commodity prices, changes in the external inflation environment, labour market conditions, the situation of the real economy, exchange rate or credit market conditions. But it takes into account all of these, and also places emphasis on the expected magnitude and durability of price changes, as this affects the reaction and definition of monetary policy. International turbulence has also increased the volatility of asset prices in the domestic money market. These developments will be considered by the central bank in terms of its primary objective, the sustainable achievement of the inflation target. The MNB's only anchor is inflation. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-118	Thank you very much, Vice President Martin the Great. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - Why is every sixth Hungarian child born abroad? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response, Congressman.
u2018-07-02-119	Thank you very much, Mr President, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister to answer.
u2018-07-02-120	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó.
u2018-07-02-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am particularly pleased that Mr Secretary of State will respond because we spoke to him in the previous round, and since then there has been further developments in the case of the Csepel HÉV. A few weeks ago, we talked about the thinning of the Csepel HÉV on the grounds of various technical problems. At the time, Mr Secretary of State was trying to reassure me that a pre-study was already being carried out to obtain new vehicles to describe what vehicles would eventually have to be purchased in the future; he refused to say concretely, he could not say last time, and he noted that vehicle transfers could at present ensure the maintenance of the service, that the necessary immediate vehicle renewal activity had been started by the company. I still resented that a little bit, that it wasn't a specific enough answer. Compared to this, a new development has since then been announced by MÁV, the operator of the Csepel HÉV, that otherwise it will thin the flights again and that the Csepel HÉV will run every 10 minutes for an indefinite period of time. I was also disturbed by myself, by the way, by the way, please, Mr Secretary of State, and convey this to the MÁV - that I, as a passenger, had to know this from a Facebook entry, there was no other way to inform me or any other passenger. On the other hand, to tell you the truth, I think it is a much bigger problem that this whole process is apparent, this sequence of events shows that the MÁV is not able to maintain the operation of the Csepel HÉV with this binjing, and it has not worked out the pull that you have come up with to hand over the operation of the HÉV to the MÁV. I would ask, on the one hand, whether this will ever be an important issue - and, on the other hand, that we should try to figure out something concrete about when there will be proper VAT transport in Csepel, because I think that is not what the Csepelians deserve. I ask you, is this what the Csepel people deserve? I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2018-07-02-122	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-07-02-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, yes, this is not the first time we have talked about this subject, this area. As has already been said in connection with our discussion, questioning and answers, MÁV-HÉV Zrt. In February of this year, he informed the Ministry of National Development that material fatigue and increased corrosion were observed in the continuous technical tests for certain types of vehicles. Therefore, it had to be prepared and prepared that the condition of the vehicles might require a transfer of vehicles to an extent that may affect the timetable issued. Since the first crack in the wheel, vehicles have been continuously tested by maintenance plants. Vehicles affected by the rupture shall be immediately withdrawn from the market for the safety of passengers and repaired as soon as possible. At present, vehicle transfers can ensure the maintenance of the service to the extent you quoted, but of course we would like and will want to change that; it will come out from my reply. As you said, MÁV-HÉV on this line was forced to introduce a 10-minute schedule, due to the lack of assembly and the additional travel time resulting from the 30 km/h speed limit on the line. The repair of wheels and the logistics of vehicles between plants, as necessary, are continuous, so as to ensure that the vehicles stopped can be placed on the market as soon as possible after they have been repaired. Thanks to the rapid action taken in the emergency situation, and perhaps a new information for you, the situation seems to be improving in the short term, as from 16 June 2018 the vehicles of the Csepel HÉV line will be able to operate with a shorter eight-minute follow-up in the peak period. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-124	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó for a one-minute rejoinder. [[16.10]]
u2018-07-02-125	Thank you very much. Technically, the Secretary of State said almost the same thing as last time. Since this is a recurring problem, from now on I think it is no longer an extraordinary situation, but it will slowly be normal that there are not enough vehicles; this is what the events show, so something must be done in any way. Therefore, I would recommend with great respect that you do not believe that this is a very big problem, and I would very much like to see you and the CEO of the MÁV do a Csepel HÉV, say, at seven o'clock in the morning, when there is really a lot of traffic, and then you can experience why it is difficult to have a vehicle only every 10 minutes. If we talk about this all the time, but we'll replace it because it's an extraordinary situation, and we'll talk about it every three weeks, it'll be that sooner or later every 15 minutes, and then every 20 minutes, and then we'll be on replacement buses, and that's definitely not good. You're really welcome to join us in Csepel for a hibernation.
u2018-07-02-126	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. I'll give the floor to Secretary Cseresnyés for a moment.
u2018-07-02-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that I tried very quickly to give my answer to the substantive announcements. I would like to repeat it once again slowly, so that it can be understood. Thus, from 16 June in the peak period, the Csepel HÉV line can be operated with a shorter 8-minute follow-up. This also proves that, once the problem has been identified by professionals, they immediately started to solve it, they are putting considerable effort into resolving this problem as soon as possible, and that those using the Csepel HÉV will be able to travel on this line as usual. How serious this work is and how seriously the professionals working there have taken the work is also proof that the specification I mentioned to you the other day, based on which, in fact, the renovation of these vehicles on the line was planned. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It was also prepared on 31 May 2005 and is the basis for continuous work to ensure that a stock of vehicles in sufficient technical condition is available on this line as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-128	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What would the central bank do for the forint? It's an address. The President of the National Bank of Hungary has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congressman Burány if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Sándor Burány:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Burány.
u2018-07-02-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, The exchange rate of the forint has fallen into a historic abyss today, and I note that it has broken your previous negative record: today the forint is weaker than it was during the global financial crisis. The entire market is waiting for the Hungarian National Bank to do something. I'd like to quote the analysis of Erste here, just so you can see it. The analysts of the bank have made it clear that if the MNB's communication does not change or improve substantially the international atmosphere, the forint may weaken further. At a much stronger rate, Viktor Orbán demanded that the government leave, and he said that only weak people would want weak forints. The market now awaits with a repressed breath that the strong or weak people are in the majority of the monetary council of the Hungarian National Bank. Mr. Vice President. You could intervene by communication or monetary means, such as raising interest rates. For the time being, nothing has been done, which is one of the reasons why the Forint's historic low-flying. I would like you to give a clear answer as to whether the Hungarian National Bank wishes to intervene in the exchange rate of the forint by means of communication or some kind of monetary instrument. Is there a level of forint weakening that you already consider to be of concern and wish to intervene? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-07-02-130	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Burány. I give the floor to Vice-President Martin the Great.
u2018-07-02-131	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I would like to say that, on the one hand, the Hungarian National Bank is united. On the other hand, I would like to say that the communication of the Monetary Council on 19 June governs the Hungarian National Bank and monetary policy. These communications are published monthly, I would like to inform everyone, and the background of the 19 June Communication is the inflation report, and the inflation report is a quarterly report. So I think we should get this straight. As regards the exchange rate: the Magyar Nemzeti Bank does not comment on the daily movement of the exchange rate, the current exchange rate depends on market developments, and many players in the market shape the size of the exchange rate, such as exporters, importers who change forints into euros, or different investors who give or buy Hungarian assets, their stores shape the exchange rate in any case. I would like to put your opinion on the exchange rate in another context. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the euro's exchange rate against the dollar has become one of the most volatile exchange rates in the world in recent years. This is certainly not in your opinion, but this is very important here, because the volatility of the euro dollar is now more than one and a half times the volatility of the euro, and so I can say that the Hungarian currency, like the regional currencies, is relatively much more stable. We are talking about the currency of the two most developed regions. From December 2016 until February 2018 the dollar weakened by 20 percent, and since then it has increased by 10 percent. So I would kindly ask you to accept that regional currencies are relatively stable on the other hand; it is not a coincidence, since fundamentals are strong. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Congressman Burány has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-07-02-133	Mr. Vice President, I understand that this is convenient for you, that you do nothing but weaken the forint. That's the problem, you know? ! He doesn't wait a month for quarterly communications. I would like to say to Mr Vice-President that the forint has also weakened compared to the Kuna and is weakening compared to the regional currencies, so we are not talking about a single process here. The forint seems to be the most vulnerable currency in the region. And finally, MOL has just announced that from Wednesday 7 forints will cost gas, it will be near 400 forints again, while the price of gas will cross the 400 forints limit. It is quite clear that weak forints are one of the reasons for this price increase. It is not possible for you to hold your position that inflation will not be affected by this forint weakening. One last sentence: you have a responsibility over financial stability, not just in terms of inflation. Such a degree and such a rapid forint weakening is already a threat to financial stability, Mr Vice-President. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-02-134	Thank you, Congressman Burány. Vice-President Martin Nagy also has the opportunity for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2018-07-02-135	Thank you very much. It is a great pity that oil prices have been brought here because, given the rise in oil prices, it would be good to mention that oil prices on the world market are rising from $50 in April to $78 today, and the rise in the dollar against the euro, which is 5-7 percent, is the real reason for this. So I think it's a matter of fact, please take a closer look at this. The second thing is: if you read the MNB Act well, it is that your primary objective is inflation. [[Sándor Burány: Not the only one!]] He also has a secondary and a tertiary mandate, but he can change this without compromising his primary objective. That's the comm on this one. The third is that it is, indeed, stable in relation to regional currencies, if we look at it with złoty, but other countries had to come out of this crisis differently, and the shadow of the failed economic policy before 2010 is why we are here. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Jesus!]] The other is that there is a different system for countries following the inflation target. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: How weak you are!]]
u2018-07-02-136	Thank you, Vice President Martin the Great. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What is the real reason why the socialists are protecting their fellow criminal representative with tooth and nails? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking if the congressman will take it.
u2018-07-02-137	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-07-02-138	You have the floor, Congressman Witzmann. [[16.20]]
u2018-07-02-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, About a year ago, it was discovered that the politicians of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Democratic Coalition, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the lawyer of the socialists, and the former campaign leader of the party, were arrested. The prosecution has committed several billion forints of fiscal fraud in a criminal organisation, resulting in the viciously built network of Csaba Czeglédy's companies damaged hundreds of students and pensioners in his activities. Czeglédy, of course, denies it, or you could say that he lies in a manner worthy of a good left-wing party soldier in the morning, at night and at night. The latest picantria of the case is that the employees of the group already claim that the activities of Czeglédy's business network were in fact driven by party policy goals. It can also be said that the system has functioned as a kind of human resources reserve in order to have someone to carry out certain political tasks in the case of party political campaign work and actions. In several cases, it was heard that Human Operator Zrt., represented by Csaba Czeglédy's name, was the name of Csaba Czeglédy. the campaign of left-wing and pseudo-independent candidates and left-wing parties, together with significant financial damage to students or pensioners engaged in cooperative work. Csaba Czeglédy, his brother, Péter Czeglédy, and other left-wing politicians and their families managed the company network through companies and school associations belonging to Human Operator Zrt. After that, we are no longer surprised that left-wing politicians are still protecting Csaba Czeglédy with their teeth and nails, and they were even able to protest it at the time. On this basis, I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary how much longer this can go on, and what is the real reason why left-wing parties are defending their former fellow Members and politicians with more teeth and nails. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-140	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2018-07-02-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, Indeed, the left is crawling with corruption scandals. I would like to remind you that Csaba Czeglédy and his associates have been investigated by the National Tax and Customs Office for the crime of fiscal fraud, which has been committed in a commercial manner and which is particularly detrimental to property, and for other crimes. It is suspected that Csaba Czeglédy, a criminal organization, established between 2011 and 2017, established a network of companies that dealt with labour placements. The criminal organisation caused a financial disadvantage to the state budget of HUF 6.3 billion by the fact that the school associations participating in the network did not declare the general sales tax or personal income tax or, even if they confessed, they did not pay it. Several executives said in the criminal proceedings that they were actually only signing the papers, but the company was fully managed by Csaba Czeglédy. The Csongrád County Attorney General's Office has proposed the extension of Csaba Czeglédy's arrest for two months due to the obstruction of proceedings and the risk of repeated crime. The three-month coercion expires on Thursday, and the court has yet to decide on the prosecution's motion. The D.A.'s office filed a motion to extend the arrest in an ongoing investigation of crimes punishable by imprisonment of up to 5-25 years due to the obstruction of the procedure and the risk of repeated prosecution. The government and Fidesz, in connection with the Czeglédy case, considered it most important that the victims of the case be compensated as soon as possible. In view of this, the Parliament adopted a proposal for a resolution on 14 November 2017, which opened the way for the fastest possible settlement of claims for injured students and pensioners. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-07-02-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Witzmann has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-07-02-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The details of the investigation, based on which Csaba Czeglédy and his eight associates were arrested, clearly show that the entire school cooperative network, in which, as Mr. Secretary mentioned, more than 6 billion forints of taxes were hijacked, was thought to have been controlled by the gang members of the crime syndicate. Witnesses have testified that the schools concerned were virtually purely on paper, and the names stamps replacing the stamps and signatures are, among others, Human Operator Zrt. He was kept in his offices in Budapest and on Saturday. The work and students were also organised by Human Operator Zrt. and its subcontractors, not even by the school associations. I think it is outrageous and shocking that left-wing politicians continue to close themselves in this matter and try to cover for their fellow politicians. After all this, it seems obvious that Czeglédy may be in possession of information that could pose a huge threat to both DK and the Socialist Party. However, I think that the most comforting thing about the whole matter is that, as a result of the government's decision or Parliament's resolution, compensation can start or happen to victims. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-07-02-144	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2018-07-02-145	Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, the relationship between Csaba Czeglédy and the left is confirmed, among other things, by the fact that the Altus Group led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife Klára Dobrev also received a loan of HUF 200 million, which was also investigated and the Hungarian National Bank launched a market surveillance proceeding against Klára Dobrev. Ferenc Gyurcsány himself has already said in other cases, including in the Tátrai case, that these perpetrators are going to prison instead, we can literally understand that - as he even carries their bag to express the kind of solidarity he wants to buy their silence. Indeed, a much deeper relationship can be assumed than that they are acquaintances or friends. They don't just move 200 million forints around the palette. In addition, practically all the time, his person remained in the spotlight. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-07-02-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What are you afraid of?" It's an address. The Minister of the Interior has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for an answer to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-07-02-147	I'll take it, thank you.
u2018-07-02-148	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Peter James.
u2018-07-02-149	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Comrades, [[Noise, interruptions.]] It seems that Fidesz's two-thirds state party will continue to rumble and continue to rumble on the path that will lead us to a total dictatorship. The next step is to reduce the right of assembly severely and grossly. You have put a bill on the table which, in the light of which, in essence, can be banned without any particular justification, without any relevant reason, protests or protests can be dissolved, even on 23 October. Aren't they ashamed? I can see in front of my mind how your fidesz Bolshevik brainstormers are nostalgic now that they can finally return to the good old days, when they couldn't be shown very freely when they couldn't talk about political topics on the street, when everyone had better shut up. Secretary of State, we don't want these times back. So I have to ask you what you're afraid of. In principle, so many people voted for you that you could now sit here by a two-thirds majority. It's supposed to be. Then what are you afraid of? Are you afraid of hunger riots? From the poor community workers? The penniless ones? Because today, every third person in this country has to be without it. Are you afraid of the riots of the evicted? It's only this year that 30-40,000 families are threatened to get on the street. Or are they afraid of the rebellion of those who lost relatives in hospitals when they could have been saved, parents, grandparents, brothers, and yet died? Are you afraid of their rebellion, Mr. Secretary? Of course, they have something to fear. I'm not saying they don't. But this must not be dealt with by banning, nor by restricting the right of assembly, but by humane and humane government performance. This is what Hungarian citizens expect of you. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-150	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-02-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the need to calm down, not to ask your immediate question with such unfounded anger, which, moreover, does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Interior, but in the competence of the Secretary of State representing the Ministry of Justice sitting next to me. [[Noise.]] But of course I'll answer. [[Dr. István Apáti: Be angry at the person who appointed you.]] I also ask for peace from Congressman István Apáti. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-07-02-152	Congressman, let the Secretary of State continue.
u2018-07-02-153	So also, Mr Abbot, calm down, there must be a reason for you to calm down, and we hope that you will. Congressman, I would like to say that we are not afraid of anything and are not afraid of anyone. We're not afraid of you either. We are obliged by the Constitutional Court to regulate the issue you have asked by law. By the way, if you read the justification for this bill, you can see that you are setting international examples in parallel and referring to international examples. And the justification also states that this proposal, which serves the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people, does not support any fear that you have just expressed on your immediate question. [[16.30]] I believe that security in Hungary is an important value, an important Community value, which is still justified in the future. I ask you, honourable Member, that the next time you put an immediate question, you put it to the right recipient. But we are at your disposal in other ways, and I trust that Jobbik, which still supported this in the debate on the amendment of the Fundamental Law, will keep his word. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman James in return.
u2018-07-02-155	Dear Secretary of State, There is only one international example before your approach to democracy: North Korea's example. [[György Szi-Lágyi: That's right!]] This power technique is used in all areas of life, by the way. After all, let's face it, what you've done since 2010: you've combined the branches of power, legislation, justice, execution, the media, and now the fidesz oligarchs have half a thousand press products, which are not used for information, but for brainwashing and pissing. And if the people can't be dumb because they can't be dumb, they're trying to ban it. Just remember the two historical truths that the people cannot be banned, but the government can be replaced. Your government can be replaced because there is no dictatorship that lasts forever. At some point, all dictatorships will be over, and soon they will be yours. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-156	Thank you, Congressman James. The Secretary of State has the right to a rejoinder.
u2018-07-02-157	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I think that when he paralleled North Korea, he did not insult us in the first place, but the Hungarian people. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] He insulted the Hungarian people, who had believed in democracy 28 years ago, and they still have that faith. Honourable Congressman, I ask you to read the bill, read the explanation in detail [[Peter James: I have read it.]] And then you understand that your fear is unfounded. I could ask you what you're afraid of, Congressman. What are you afraid of, my fellow Members? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: From the ancestors of Novak.]] The answer to that question is indeed, but I think this is your concern. As far as the bill is concerned, there will be a seven-party debate on this tomorrow. I ask you that if you are serious about submitting a better proposal, getting it accepted, you have a concrete idea about this, then at tomorrow's seven-party meeting, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. How can the government ensure an increase in GMO-free soy production? It's an address. Minister Sándor Farkas has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-07-02-159	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-07-02-160	Then you have the floor, Congressman László Earth.
u2018-07-02-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Recently, one of my fellow Members from KDNP has interpelled on sustainable development and environmental protection to the agricultural portfolio, because this topic is essential for our future. We must strive to meet today's needs without reducing the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Another element of this for the future generation is the achievement of the level of self-sufficiency for certain agricultural products. Such a product may, for example, be the GMO-free protein feed material. Hungary has been pursuing a GMO-free policy in the Fundamental Law for many years, and in line with this, it has joined the Danube Soya Association, which has also made significant efforts in recent years for European GMO-free regional cooperation. Although the production of soybeans in Europe is constantly increasing, this welcome process is overshadowed by the fact that the Union is still far from achieving the level of self-sufficiency, as it produces only 5 percent of the 45 million tonnes of raw protein demand, it covers a larger proportion of its needs from South American imports. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what opportunities the government has to encourage the growth of the production area. How can the government ensure the growth of GMO-free soya production? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-162	Thank you very much, Congressman László Earth. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2018-07-02-163	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The government's key objectives are to ensure that only safe food produced in a sustainable manner is supplied to consumers in Hungary. Hungary's aim is to establish a GMO-free food chain, which includes the production of animal products from seed through feed. Today, Europe, as you have mentioned, can meet its internal demand for soybean-based high protein feed from its own production, which poses a structural risk to livestock production. The situation in Hungary is somewhat better than the European average, but far from satisfactory. About 15-20 percent of our self-sufficiency develops, and we are forced to import about 450-500 thousand tons of South American soybeans each year to meet domestic needs. We need to take action in a number of directions to reduce risks. The aim of the agricultural portfolio in the longer term is to replace our dependence on imports, but this can only be done by maintaining the competitiveness and stability of the livestock sector in the long term. One option to provide a GMO-free protein source is a support scheme to encourage production. From 2015 onwards, Hungary introduced a new production-linked form of aid to support the production of protein crops in the framework of the system of direct aid as part of the common agricultural policy, which amounts to around EUR 26.2 million per year, which aims to grant aid per hectare for fibre proteins, HUF 34,000 and HUF 51 500 per hectare for grain proteins. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. I give the floor to Congressman László Földi in a minute.
u2018-07-02-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The welcome thing is that the Hungarian government and the agricultural purse are doing everything in their power to ensure that the product chain is in fact GMO-free from seed until, for example, we have a beef slice or pork on our table. At the same time, the €26 million EU aid that the Hungarian State is now receiving to support protein production, whether it is fibre or grainy protein, I will be interested to see if this will be achieved in the next EU budget cycle. Because it is important that Hungarian agriculture does not suffer any damage, no EU funding minus in the next EU budget cycle, because, among other things, there will be significantly less resources for such tasks, such as soy production. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-166	Thank you, Earth Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-02-167	In all possible forums, our country emphasises the retention of coupled subsidies after 2020, their possible rethink and increase in scale. In Hungary, support schemes within the framework of the CAP have led to an increase in production areas not only in the case of soya but also in the case of other butterfly plants, and this is also the case within the EU. As a result of our firm, consistent action, several EU Member States have joined the Hungarian position. I would just like to say to you here that when we think about increasing and increasing the soy areas, it is absolutely necessary to highlight the irrigation development programme, without which, in the long term, we need to consider not only the cultivation of soya in today's environmental and meteorological conditions, but also the cultivation of intensive stocks and intensive plant varieties. [[16.40]] It is of the utmost importance that this programme is included in the government programme. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and I would like us to work together with the Member and Parliament on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2018-07-02-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 40 minutes, and we're closing this item, and we're moving on to plain questions. Erik Fülöp, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question, "When will the animal torturers receive a deterrent punishment?" It's an address. Congressman Philip Erik has the floor.
u2018-07-02-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years Jobbik has repeatedly pointed out that there is a devastating problem in the field of animal protection. However, several of the bestial cases recently redirected public attention to the fact that the Btk. regulation of animal cruelty is not nearly sufficient. A dog was brutally decapitated in the Helvécia of Bács-Kiskun County, while an unrecognizablely mutilated dog carcass was thrown out in Zuglo. Unfortunately, however, only a part of animal abuse is exposed and received more media attention, but how many and how many daily tortures or abuses occur, which we have no idea about. Tragicomic and severe criticism of the current legislation shows that the perpetrators of the most brutal animal cruelty can be sentenced to maximum 3 years imprisonment under our regulations. In practice, unfortunately, we find that animal torturers, animal killers, in most cases, can only receive suspended imprisonment. It is disappointing that there are hardly any cases where the perpetrators are actually punished, but it is even more disappointing that in these cases, even a brutal animal killer has to go to prison for only a few months. We can therefore clearly say that the current legislation does not have any serious deterrent effect that would curb animal torturers. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State when they want to tighten it up. regulation of animal cruelty? When and with what measures are they finally trying to reform animal protection provisions? I'm looking forward to your substantive response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-170	Thank you, Congressman Philip Erik. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2018-07-02-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, It was just this government that, after 2010, tightened the criminal code on animal cruelty, and that was when the prison sentence of 2 and 3 years could be imposed; compared with the five-year base case of manslaughter, I think it expresses in its proportions that all such acts are seriously punishable. But to say a few words about the application: the second degree council of the Nyíregyháza Court on 6 April for two defendants who were aggravated to 8-8 months in prison, imposed a sentence of 4-4 months in the first instance for the crime of animal torture, and that is basically because they held a dog with such cruelty. On 10 April, one of the perpetrators was finally sentenced to 1 year 6 months in prison at the Egri Tribunal, but two years were suspended for 6 months. On September 4, 2017, the District Court of Veszprém sentenced an offender to 1 year 6 months in prison, the execution of which was suspended for 2 years. On 20 December 2017, the Szeged General Court also sentenced both defendants to 2 years in a case of animal torture, which was suspended for 3 years on probation. It can be seen that the legislative process that has tightened the punishments for animal cruelty is now becoming more and more effective in the practice of the courts, and it should not be forgotten that the control of social thinking, education, animal husbandry is at least as important as the final argument, the application of the Criminal Code. Please accept our opinion. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-172	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government do to reduce the waiting list of social institutions? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2018-07-02-173	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the social portal data, over 30,000 people are lining up to get into some social institution, most of them into residential nursing homes, some 24,000 people waiting in line. The saddest situation in Budapest is that there are more than 5,000 people standing in line here, but there are more than 2100 people in Pest county. The situation in the country is similar, although there is much, much less space than in the capital city. As regards specialist care, residential psychiatrists have to be mentioned, where more than 2200 people are in the ranks of nearly 2 000 people, but even more than 500 people are in the care facility for addicts. What I see is that institutional fees are extremely high, since between HUF 70 and HUF 150 000 are the amounts that are requested for a person, and unfortunately most elderly people do not have that amount of pension, since the average pension amount of the old-age pension did not reach HUF 130 000, and therefore the law requires that the pension at any time is, of course, the client who is admitted to such an institution can apply for a fee of up to 80 per cent. I do not see the parenting institution as a solution to this problem, because many relatives are struggling to support their own children or themselves. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what they are doing in order to build more residential elderly home seats than sitting in a stadium. I need your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-02-174	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2018-07-02-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, we have also sought to provide the highest quality of care for those who spend their days in a home. We have also created a new category, the first example of which is built in East Hungary, to create a new quality of care and care centers there, so everyone who needs it will be provided with the necessary quality, even high quality care. However, it must be said, honourable Member, that your position on this matter depends on whether you are in government or in opposition. Because when you were in the government, you said that running a high-level residential institution is a market venture, everyone here has to calculate their costs and benefits. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] You were too much of a state normative, and not only did your government reduce the state normative, but also your government reduced the basic normative by HUF 30,000, the highlighted normative by HUF 100,000, and then when you were asked what would happen to people who didn't get care, you said that you would help your neighbors, relatives and friends. In fact, I can quote such a cruel sentence from you, honourable Member. [[Lajos Korózs: I've heard that before, Bence! How will there be room?]] I quote, not all people need to go to a nursing home after they've grown old. We want to help all people, but you said it wouldn't be necessary, and now you're gonna stand up here asking for the opposite. For example, domestic assistance, honourable Member, has been a huge step forward in helping 75,054 people in 2010 so that we can now help 90,989 people. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] And the number of people who contribute to the care of these people has also increased, as it is now two levels of social assistance, on the one hand, and personal care, on the other hand, which is much higher; the specific support that we provide has increased from 145 thousand forints to 210 thousand forints. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: what is more important: the population or Fidesz? It's an address. Mr László Hajdu has the floor.
u2018-07-02-177	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Budapest capital XV. In October 2017, the district was hit by a government decision, where we received HUF 78 million without applying for it, it wasn't written out, we couldn't get it in a normative way, but we did get it for public development purposes. [[16.50]] The body of representatives has decided that we will use this money to renovate Veresegyházi Street in Crabospalota, to push it by another HUF 30 million, and a beautiful street will be created, where otherwise fideszes has been the local government representative for several cycles. We were surprised when we received another government decision. This government decision was about the fact that, not on that street, we could build with this money, but on New Palota, an MP from a parliamentary point of view, in the district of a liberal representative, but a park. The government decided to change its original decision and addressed it, so it addressed it, instead of Veresegyházi Street, Dízánád Street. I think the real merit and value of this was that it was an election on 8 April. Mr. Tamás László was sitting here as a Member of Parliament at the time, and he received this as a gift. It was very important to him in New Palota, and the government decided to build a park there. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that, first of all, we have written a letter that we have not yet received an answer to, and second of all, who is more important to the government, Fidesz or the population. Thank you, and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2018-07-02-178	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-02-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is a wise old saying: audioatur et altera pars! Let the other party listen. Tamás László can't be here right now, but I asked him today, I called him and told him what the truth was about this case. He gave me the following information. [[Lajos Korózs: You could have listened to a more authentic source!]] Congressman, you're supposed to be a Democrat if you listen to me. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd be honored. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Allegedly!]]
u2018-07-02-180	Secretary of State, continue.
u2018-07-02-181	Thank you very much. I have been informed by Mr Tamás László, former Member, that as a member of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgets has submitted a package of proposals for a bill amending the 2017 budget and has proposed the development of the Port Youth Community Island. This is not exactly what appeared in the Government Decision and was subsequently clarified by the other Government Decision. Tamás László informed you of this, by the way. You didn't object then. He also informed people, and he has now sent me the press release on government support for the development of the Port Youth Community Island. This happened on the spot on 2 June 2017. I do not know that location, but I have been told by Tamás László that this is a neglected area, and it is certainly appropriate to develop it. He said the people there didn't object. By the way, youth was particularly pleased with this. I was, by the way, a municipal representative for 20 years, a deputy mayor for two cycles in the city of Pope, and when we received government support for any title, I was always happy and thanked you, Congressman. I hope that you will be happy, and that you will also be happy about the people who live there and about the area under development, and that you will be in the interests of the people who live there. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Please think about this proposal (the president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. ) and be happy with this support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-182	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister: "What will happen to you? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, Mr Gulyás Gergely, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the request of State Secretary Bence Tuzson. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-02-183	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I appeal to you under the authority and authority of the members of the government in force. In recent years, a government decision on the revision of the national castle programme and the national fortress programme has been taken to preserve cultural heritage and boost tourism, and the National strategy for the development of tourism 2030. Significant EU and domestic development resources have also been associated with their implementation. It would be important for the government to report before the National Assembly on our cultural heritage and on the protection of castles, castles, associated land and parks, changes in their ownership since 2010, on completed and ongoing applications. In particular, because the institutional system of the previously independent, high-quality conservation area has been demoted and dismembered, which raises concerns about the development of professional competence and competence as well as the correct use of resources and the necessary restoration work. There is much work to be done in relation to domestic castles, and it is not easy to set priorities. However, it is incomprehensible what happens to the Hungarian castle with a great historical history; it is located in Baranya county. It has been closed for years, while it is one of the great tourist attractions of the region. During several years of correspondence, the National Asset Manager did not provide a meaningful response to the closure or non-opening, although around Maré's castle there are numerous local regional businesses, green roads, beaches, pensions, village restaurants, village hosts, restaurants that are important for rural development and rural employment. Mr. Secretary. What is the explanation for MNV Zrt. You are already waiting for your practice, and what action is expected to address the problem? When will the government give Parliament meaningful information on the implementation of the castle and castle programme? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2018-07-02-184	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson.
u2018-07-02-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as the castle and castle programme is concerned, we are indeed talking about a very significant cultural programme, as many years, perhaps more than twenty years have passed, and in the last twenty years or in accordance with previous practice, a truly real castle programme has not been launched in Hungary, which means that we have not been able to place these castles and castles in Hungary. I put it this way, because the renovation of a castle or the renovation of a castle does not in itself mean a renovation program. This is a national issue. In addition to saving our national treasures, this is also a message. It is a message to future generations about how we present the past, how we present Hungary's history, what they see from the history of Hungary. This is why the castle and castle program was launched in 2016 and 19 castles and 20 castles can be renewed in Hungary with a value of HUF 57.5 billion. In the case of seven castles, renovations have already started, so the construction is already underway, and there are several castles, for which renovations are being prepared. If you look at the renovations that have taken place, you can see that the change that has taken place is very significant from a historic point of view, but also from a country's point of view, if you look at the Castle of Diósgyőr, the complete renovation of which has not yet been completed, yet we are talking about a spectacular change, which is very important for the country's life. In addition, 50 more castles and castles can be renewed in Hungary through various programmes, and we must continue on this path. There are 5,000 castles and mansions in Hungary, with about 26 percent of them state-owned. These need to be taken care of and, following the most prestigious and most significant national monuments, the rest of the castles will also have to be renovated. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-02-186	Thank you, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:, How is the development of the Budapest-Hatvan railway line progressing? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2018-07-02-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We have recently laid the foundation stone for the investment aimed at modernising the Budapest-Hatvan railway section and building a related road safety system. The people living in the region are delighted with this significant development, which will take place in three projects worth nearly HUF 150 billion, thus renewing a 14-station section of 53 kilometers long. [[17.00]] The development also affects three stops belonging to my constituency: Rákoscsaba, Rákoscsaba-Újtelep and Rákosliget, and the railway line will also expand with another stop in Rákoscsaba. It is particularly important for the people in my constituency to develop the railway, since until the metro comes out the XVII. in the district of Rákosmen, this is the only public transport facility with a fixed track, which is the fastest and easiest way to reach downtown easily and quickly. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] With this in mind, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether development and investment are progressing at the planned pace. The development of railways always means facilitating and making people's transport opportunities more comfortable. We serve, among other things, those who go to work and educational establishments, those who travel to their relatives, tourists and operators involved in freight traffic. I therefore respectfully ask Mr State Secretary where the development of the Budapest-Hatvan railway line is at present and what further work is expected on the line. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-02-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2018-07-02-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As part of the development of the railway line between Rákos-Hatvan stations, the railway track concerned will be converted to a track speed of between 100 and 120 km/h depending on the line management. We modernise the stations and stops, we build five separate road crossings, we also create P+R parking places where cars can be left by car users and those who want to use the line later. The construction has been carried out since April under single-track traffic restrictions between Isaszeg-Gödöllő stations. On 1 June the construction of sections between Rákos-Pécel and Asód-Tura stations also started. The Authority granted in February 2018 the environmental authorisation necessary for the preparation of the amended rail track-based regulation. An appeal was lodged against the decision. The Regulation may be adopted only after the decision has become legally binding, which constitutes a risk to the progress of the acquisition of land. The state of expropriation is now 47 percent. To speed up the process, the project owner is National Infrastructure Development Ltd. has contacted the competent county government offices. The previous protest of the city of Aszód on the amendment of local legislation also causes delays in the acquisition process. However, after the conciliation hearing convened by the Pest county head of state architect, the amendment process started. The Rákos-Hatvan line section is also being constructed at the same time as the track construction and the installation of the asset protection system in accordance with the EU standard. The planned deadline for temporary entry into service is the fourth quarter of 2020 and the authorisation plan is currently under preparation. The project's final deadline, set by the European Union, was very tight, and the portfolio indicated the need to extend the investment to the Union until 2022. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The formal decision on this is expected in 2019. Of course, we expect a positive assessment, and in this case the line will be ready. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-190	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: "Where is the ship headed? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, Antal Rogán, the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff, will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-02-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Balaton Shipping Company. Started its 172nd shipping season this year. The traditional company is one of the largest employers of the region, one of the most important economic players in the Balaton priority resort area. In addition to regular passenger transport activities, the operation of ferry transport and the 11 sailing ports around Lake Balaton generating more than 700 million HUF's turnover is highlighted. Over the last nearly two centuries, the ownership of the company and the level of public engagement have changed several times. The current owners have a share of HUF 4 billion in the 21 municipalities of the Balaton region with a public passenger ship port, the largest ownership, and Siófok has 44.21 percent. At the beginning of this year's shipping season, the CEO of the company talked about large-scale developments. Among other things, the government's flagship Balaton programme will have more than HUF 12 billion in development in the company. Developments, quality services, really require additional resources, but what is to be expected in the near future? If the government source of HUF 12 billion comes to the company by raising the subscribed capital, the municipality's share of the state will be dwarfed, leaving the example of Siófok to 17-18 percent, which will no longer provide virtually any influence on the municipalities. Will our fear be confirmed that, after resource allocation, the municipalities will be forced to back down, the long-standing shipping company will be dismembered, the profitable business lines, especially the sailing ports that provide the favourite time for the rich, will be rescued from government-wide businesses? Where's the ship headed? Are we going to privatization? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-07-02-192	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-02-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This government has increased national wealth, dismemberment and privatisation practices, and under-selling of national assets at prices have been the practice of previous governments. We can certainly agree that tourism is a national issue, not only because it is a successful industry, but also because it is an important field of patriotism, and if we are talking about tourism, the role of Lake Balaton is inevitable, even because it is becoming more popular. Last year, for example, foreigners spent 10 percent more guest nights. I bring this up because if we talk about tourism in Balaton, then Balaton Shipping Corp will have a prominent role, and the government will give us all the help we can get to work effectively. This requires more resources, as a matter of fact. As regards the capital increase, you referred to this: according to the Government's decision in March, local authorities will be granted a further extension to fulfil their capital increase obligation by 31 January next year. Otherwise, this would have expired in March of this year. If I recall correctly, you were acting as deputy mayor of Siófok, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Bahart, the leader of the local settlements, has recently said that the ownership circle is open to the acceptance of state involvement. So the point is, after all, we are debating the form in which the state will give more resources to this company. If I understand you correctly, you don't share this position in everything, we'll take that into consideration. Either way, the government listens to all opinions, because the goal and I believe that this is common - to be a Balaton that everyone can be proud of, but it also requires the right quality of services. I think we can agree on that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-02-194	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, After at least one oral question has been asked by each of our parliamentary groups, and the combined duration of interpellations and oral questions has exceeded 90 minutes, so on the basis of the house rules, I am now closing the oral debate and moving to the next item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kazak on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals holding diplomatic and service passports and the Commission's reports on the publication of the Protocol on its amendment signed in Budapest on 28 February 2018 and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/473. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please. [[17.10]]
u2018-07-02-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 June 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/473 Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the reciprocal visa waiver of its nationals holding diplomatic and service passports and the Protocol on its amendment signed in Budapest on 28 February 2018. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It supported by 31 votes in favour, unanimously, without debate. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-02-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to speak in the debate. [[Tamás Vargha: No. At the end. Dr. Gurmai Zita: Me, I want to!]] I don't see any contact. Wait a minute. The rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, and Mr Secretary of State, have the opportunity to speak at this stage or at a later stage of the debate. [[Tamás Vargha: At the end!]] Mr Secretary of State wishes to speak at a later stage. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. Dear Parliament, No one made a written statement. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2018-07-02-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We need to approve an agreement that dates back to 1978, when we reached an agreement with the Soviet Union on diplomatic and service passports. Then, in 1996, after the Soviet Union broke up, we had already concluded a new agreement with the Republic of Kazakhstan. This Agreement is hereby amended by extending the visa waiver period from 30 days to 90 days within 180 days. In fact, it could be said that agreements of this kind are essentially strengthening economic, social and trade relations between the two countries, but let me draw attention to one or two aspects. In the case of countries of this type, which look like democracy, such as Kazakhstan, where, with 90% electoral participation, 95 percent will be elected by a governing party who sits in Parliament, which is not exactly the property of plural democracy - we need to begin with these relations in such a way that it is absolutely justified to look at the interests of such agreements. It is true that relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Hungary have developed incredibly strongly over the past 4-5 years, the reason for which the Hungarian government has always been able to develop this kind of relationship, our trade relations, to the extent that it provides strong economic benefits for both countries. Compared to this, we have now come to the point that our 60th most important trading partner is Kazakhstan, and we can see that we are basically characterised by externalities and the creation of different common institutions, so we are characterised by such a very superficial but seemingly politically deepening relationship. In recent years, it has also been very severe that, in our relations with the successor states of the Soviet Union, such visa problems have inevitably arisen, which are likely to be rooted in some kind of past automation. I consider it to be considered that in such circumstances caution should not be harmed. I see that the visa waiver from 30 days to 180 days and 90 days, even when it comes to diplomats and people with a service passport, is too big a leap in relation to the two parties. I consider that it could have been a little slower and a measure of some kind of experience if the other party had already asked for it. I would also like to draw the attention of honourable Members to one more thing, and that is that the international treaties are drawn up in the official language of both countries or of any number of countries participating in it, but it is not compulsory to designate a language as an interpreter in the event of a dispute. I understand that in the agreement with the Soviet Union in 78, the Russian language was the interpreter language on the basis of our power relations. I also understood that during the Horn-government in 96 we still could not get rid of the Russian language as an official or interpretive language. However, I find it hard to imagine that even in this agreement it is necessary to designate an interpreter language so that the primary official language of the Republic of Kazakhstan is Kazakhstan and not Russia; it is only the secondary official language. So what I'd like to ask you is whether there will be a situation in our history with the successor states of the Soviet Union, not the dominant position, not their primacy, but, let's say, our level or our strength will influence such processes. I would like to draw attention to one more problem, and unfortunately this was typical of all the recent legislative proposals prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These trivial errors, which should be amended by the committee after the legislative proposals have been tabled, are unacceptable. I calculated that, by the time such a bill comes before the House, Hungarian taxpayers will pay about HUF 20 million a month for the expenditure in rem and for those people who are unable to submit flawless legislative proposals. I'm sorry, but no one works for nothing in these communities. Very serious money is being spent by taxpayers to maintain public administration. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to please, if the filter so far has not been enough, introduce 2-3 more filters in the future so that such trivial errors do not occur. So the official who worked in this ministry, who wrote the proposal, did not know that Hungary was still the Republic of Hungary in 96 and could not interpret the use of words in the amending phase of this legislation... I apologize to everyone, perform a professional task, and have qualified people sitting there! If, in addition to the two-thirds legislative mandate, we hear these extremely confident speeches every single day, then I also ask you to be so confident when we expect you to make sound proposals. On this basis, what I have said, especially in view of the previous lines of thought, we on the part of the Jobbik faction will abstain from voting on this law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-07-02-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give the floor to the time frame available. We're in a time-frame meeting. Thank you. You have the floor.
u2018-07-02-199	Mr President, Dear House, I think it is very important for all international agreements to put the framework for the general debate, not by breaking up, to ask specific questions of an economic nature to which we can get answers here and now, because it is clearly prepared and the State Secretary in charge who is taking part in the debate. In 2017, articles with very serious numbers were published in relation to Kazakhstan, along the opening of the Expo. In the first round, the expo, where a Hungarian pavilion was financed, was allocated some HUF 170-180 million, but later, in January of the following year, the Government announced in the Public Procurement Notice that the Hungarian pavilion was to be created with an additional HUF 1 billion HUF 73 million. Again, as before, there was only one offer for this greasy assignment. But here's the chance and here's the wonderful situation to clarify that! [[17.20]] After all, I myself support the development of Hungarian-Kazakh economic relations. My well-prepared colleague has analysed why this would be a great need and how underdeveloped these relations are compared to what could be made of them. I would also like to support all kinds of similar international agreements to deepen these economic relations, but I find it very difficult to place where, in relation to almost all the countries concerned, there is an expo, whether it is a trading house, there is a fidesz scandal everywhere, which is subject to overpriced. So there is a 100 million-dollar edition everywhere, and then, in some way, a billion-dollar expenditure is generated without any explanation, even though it is the Hungarian taxpayer's money. I would also like to say that, according to the Public Procurement Notification, the mass of expenditure that practically does not exist or is sitting here on the ground, if not a member of the governing parties, has slipped above 1 billion. I would like to mention one more moment, which is actually just a question, and I do not expect the Secretary of State to know the answer to that question here and now, with a later written information, so I do not wish to be incorrect and put anyone in an impossible position. Orbán himself contributed to the promotion of the affected Expo, writing a so-called greeting letter. Here he calls Kazakhstan the future country of Astana the city of the future, and he also discusses Kazakh-Hungarian genetic kinship. I have no problem with further exploration of Hungarian ancient history, and I am open to making these findings public. At the same time, I would be interested in the official position of the government on this issue, i.e. on the issue of genetic kinship, and I would also like to know how much they feel about this exploration process in the context of reducing the different rights and powers of the MTA. Although the Hungarian research on ancient history, although not sabotaging it, but handling it a little lightly, has been quite justified in the past in relation to the MTA, it can be said today that there is very serious professional work going on within the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, typically in Hungary, but there are also foreign expeditions available for researchers, archaeologists, who, by the way, have achieved measurable results in this area, not only in terms of the academic position, or in an open way. I have the pleasure of knowing more of you personally. I have to say that their exemplary work in this very difficult, underfunded, underfunded environment is exemplary, but I believe that the nature of the government's position basically determines how enthusiastic they can be at their own work in the future and what frameworks can be set for them. Once again, since this seems to be a matter of detail, but more important to us, I will be satisfied with a later written clarification and presentation of the position. Not in terms of the first question, where explaining and explaining the amount of billions spent on the expo, I think it calls for an immediate answer. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-02-201	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, First of all, I would like to congratulate Tamás Vargha on his appointment as Secretary of State. Accordingly, he did not participate in the Council of Europe delegation now in Strasbourg, where I had a small accident, and here I would like to thank my fellow Members for the kind of human attitude that I can now stand on my own feet and talk to you here. Of course, the embassy and colleagues here have been extremely helpful in this. On this subject, I would like to say that the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports this bill, but I would like to say a few things to you. Of course, the MSZP considers the economic, educational and scientific development of Hungarian-Kazakh relations to be important, because I have to say that European Union ties are always more important for us, not as Prime Minister said, that he never felt as well as he did in Kazakhstan. I would also like to say a few sentences that this proposal, which should be based on values and interests, is extremely important in terms of Hungarian-Kazakh cooperation. I believe that Hungary intends to develop its cooperation with other countries, not only Kazakhstan, but also Russia, in the federal system with the community of countries with the same values and in partnership with the common interests of mutual economic benefits. We agree accordingly, and that is why we consider it important to support the strengthening and deepening of Hungarian-Kazakh relations, primarily economic, educational, cultural and scientific, but to us, the search for relatives is already less important. If we look at bilateral economic relations, it is worth noting that, according to KSH data, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus or Kazakhstan are still not or barely reaching the 2008 level in the most important relations in the CIS countries, despite the government's success propaganda. It is even worse if we compare these numbers with Kazakhstan. If we look at Hungarian exports, I have a 2008 number: $ 403 million, and unfortunately in 2014 it was just over $167 million. If we look at imports in the same two years, in 2008 it will be $11 million and in 2014 it will be $40 million. So the question arises that, as a means of developing bilateral economic relations, an economic cooperation government committee was set up, and in 2012, it was also established, in May it was the Hungarian-Kazakh branch of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Kazakh-Hungarian business council. It is also a question of how the tasks have been carried out, and it is absolutely important to know. A strategic council was recently decided between the two countries to emphasise the nature of the bilateral relations and cooperation strategy. It is important to know how the strategy for declining economic relations between the two countries will then be discussed, so what are the chances and opportunities for this. In the case of bilateral relations, the possibility of cooperation in education is noteworthy, since it is important that the Kazakh students have a Hungarian scholarship opportunity, but it would be worth examining the results of higher education reforms in Kazakhstan, as a result of which several Kazakh universities have been included in the 500 best higher education institutions in the world, in which it is of course very important that the state spends nine and a half times more on education than in the 1990s, while there are significant achievements in higher education. PhD training, close to Western standards, is a good place in international rankings in foreign relations. That's all I wanted to say, thank you again on behalf of the MSZP.
u2018-07-02-202	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I ask you if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-02-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much, first of all, for the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has enabled us to vote on the bill tomorrow, and I would also like to thank its Members for their speeches, in particular those which support the bill to publish the protocol amending the agreement. I would like to make one clarification: the possibility of visa-free stay for holders of diplomatic and service passports is not increased to 180 days, but to 90 days in a given 180 day period. The aim of all this is to ensure that relations between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan, education, economic, cultural and other relations can be conducted more smoothly and easily in the future. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's question broke the framework of this bill a little. On the question of the Expo, it is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, but the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, which is why I suggest that you ask them; and the question about us, if you submit this in writing, will be answered with respect within the given framework. [[17 .30]] Thank you very much, Mrs Zita Gurmai, for your congratulations. I wish you good luck. I am sorry that we could not represent Hungary together in Strasbourg. Thank you very much for your support, and I ask every faction of Parliament to support our bill on tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-07-02-204	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to be submitted to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, on the publication of the Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and on the other hand, are followed by a debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/400. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 June 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/400 Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It supported by 31 votes in favour, by unanimous decision, without debate. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Tuzson Bence, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Tuzson Bence: Later.]] Mr Secretary of State indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. Mr Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2018-07-02-207	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, represents further progress in terms of the increased political and economic engagement of the EU in East Asia. This, I believe, has been spoken fairly before by a colleague of the Secretary of State. This agreement practically includes EU standard political clauses on human rights, the International Criminal Court, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism and implements so-called EU policies on taxation and migration. It provides a basis for more effective cooperation between the EU and its Member States with Mongolia. I am, of course, referring to the area of justice, economy, trade and development policy. What are the areas that cover this? This includes health, environmental protection, climate change, energy, education, culture, labour, of course social issues, employment, science, technology and transport. It is important to include legal cooperation, money laundering and terrorist financing, the fight against organised crime and corruption. This framework agreement entered into force in November last year in international law and is supported by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-07-02-208	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-02-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat my fellow Member Gurmai Zita's very detailed presentation on the content of this additional protocol, and indeed, this law, which we have to make, is our task because of a technical law, Croatia's accession to the EU. Therefore, I do not want to deal with the content itself in more detail, but, since, if you like it, if we do not just perform a professional task here in Parliament ourselves, but we are also politicians, because of this convention or the protocol, I have been thinking about how Mongolia, which has been quite heavily exposed to the great powers, and in the socialist system has also been inexhaustible to us, has made such progress, and we will slowly keep it as an example for us. For three hundred years, the Manchu dynasty suffered from a rather deadly embrace, and then the liberating Soviet Union exercised a very powerful influence in this country, and if the excellences of Hungarian scientific life and professional life had not rushed to the country's assistance in the 20th century. In order to develop in the first century, he would have lived in a rather backward state of change. The Hungarians played a very important role in the XX. In the modernization of Mongolia in the century, and if this country's legal ties to the EU have already come to the House, let us definitely remember József Geleta, who was a prisoner in Mongolia in the First World War and had such a fantastic way of life that he built the first thermal power plant and the first national theatre of Mongolia. The technical development that occurred before the change of regime, both in the meat industry, in the clothing industry, in the processing of raw materials and in the mining industry, with the help of Hungarian experts, is indeed exemplary in the relationship between the two countries. When the Soviet Union broke down, and that kind of strong link between Mongolia and the Soviet Union disappeared, it could really begin its own journey, and its political development since then is truly honorable. The Communists were able to get out of power for a very long time, but since then Mongolia has announced the policy of the third neighbour, because if anyone, then this country has very strong powers wedged between Russia and China, and it has been able to reach the point of democratic development that it can represent the policy of opening as strongly as possible. He has concluded strong partnership agreements with Japan, India, the United States and the European Union, which certainly give him that. And then here's why I'm talking about this. I am talking about this because, with this Protocol, we are strengthening this country's existing relationship with the European Union, helping to make this third neighbouring policy perfect, while in our country we are going the exact opposite way, and in order to help them open up and promote their open policy, it is the Parliament that decides on this right now, which, in turn, is the majority of Parliament's representatives, would prefer to promote lock-in. I would very much hate to see it said in ten years' time that the political community and economic development of Mongolia will guide us, even though all that Mongolia has achieved during the modernisation process is very much part of Hungary's helping hand. So what I am asking of the political elite of Hungary, if there is a country so deeply, economically and socially, that we have also helped him to have such a strong relationship with the European Union and to achieve such economic, social and political development, then, if possible, at least we should never miss them. [[17.40]] In this connection, I thought that I would share these thoughts with my fellow Members and Parliament. Of course, Jobbik supports the ratification of such treaties or additional protocols, because it is in our common interest that, building on mutual benefits with all countries, we should indeed have balanced, but most importantly democratic relations, in the interests of all. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-07-02-210	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members if there is still a need for further comments. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Bence Tuzson, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2018-07-02-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The publication of the Protocol itself is certainly of a technical nature, since the protocol concerns Croatia's accession to the European Union and therefore it is necessary to amend it by law. This was also the subject of a proposal for an amendment, a logical amendment, which is a proposal for an amendment to the entry into force, which is why I call on the Members of Parliament to support this bill. In a sentence, allow me to respond to the former statement of the Member because she made a shocking statement, and this shocking statement concerned exactly what concerns the attitude of Hungarian Members of Parliament. He says that in Hungary the Hungarian MPs would advertise the policy of shutting down... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: The pro-government representatives!]] I know you're talking, Congresswoman, about the pro-government and the government's position. Dear Congresswoman, With the policy that the Hungarian government is taking today, by wanting to strengthen Hungary's role within the European Union and the role of nation states within the European Union, it represents a policy of openness. He also represents him in this agreement, as [[Moraj and interrogations from Jobbik benches, including Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They are fighting with everyone! Everyone! The president's ringing the bell.]] This Convention is also a convention in the interests of the country [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We support it!]] because the Eastern Partnership is part of it, as it is in its name, this is something that we also emphasize in its interests, so it also serves the interests of Hungary's economic relations. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] If we went in the opposite direction and continued the policy of shutting down, we would accept exactly what you and the Socialist Members are saying, that we should slip into European politics, that we should go into Europe, and that is the end of Hungary disappearing within that. [[Moraj and interrogations from the benches of Jobbik, among others György Szilágyi: Is that what we said? Did we say that?!]] And your ability to assert your interests should disappear. Now, that's what you're saying, by the way, and that's what you said earlier...
u2018-07-02-212	[[Towards György Szilágyi:]] Congressman, we're not having a conversation. Please control yourself. [[Dr. István Apáti: Shouting is a parliamentary genre! Because he's lying...]]
u2018-07-02-213	This is what you are saying, and this is why the previous comment is incomprehensible, because if you were to observe what Hungary's foreign policy, what Hungary's European Union policy is, you would know precisely that the policy that Hungary is pursuing is in favour of Hungary's interests and strengthens Hungary's trade relations. This can also be seen in the strengthening of the Hungarian foreign trade balance and in the strengthening of the economy, and also in the strengthening of the Hungarian nation, national consciousness and Hungarian national policy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[György Szilágyi: Szilágyi Szilárd Németh's sheep head, too...]]
u2018-07-02-214	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Maybe if we listen to each other, then I'm sure [[György Szilágyi towards Bence Tuzson: Are you talking about opening in the East?]] I'm sure we'll be much further ahead later. [[György Szilágyi towards Tuzson Bence: You know you're not telling the truth!]] Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi, if I may, I would like to conclude this debate. I think it's appropriate to honor each other by paying attention. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the law to the regulation of construction of high-rises and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/406. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a total time frame of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-02-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 June 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. T/406 on the amendment of Act T/406 on the regulation of construction of high-rises Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It was supported by 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The Legislative Committee has expressed and accepted its own intention to amend further. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-02-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, please.
u2018-07-02-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Deputy Secretary of State, Yes, we have just heard a summary of the majority position that is very relevant. This is about as detailed as the pro-government representatives who have given their support to this bill. However, I and my fellow Member have expressed our reservations in a little bit more detail; our reservations regarding the fact that we believe that this is an extremely unorthodox bill, and that its submission and negotiation are very special in the history of this House, that the Secretary of State was not only the representative of the petitioner, but also the opposition, opposition to it in the debate. Most of all, his presentation was about how he wanted to amend his bill. About what? About the fact that what was obvious and there was a complete consensus for the representatives of the profession in this respect, also for the population of Budapest, so that the building of a tower cannot be built in Hungary, Budapest, and that exceptional cases, such as the former name of the MOL headquarters, should not be built even in the southern part of Budapest, even if this is only an external, extreme point of the world heritage panorama, but there is still a place from which you can hide this beautiful sight, so that it cannot be realized, and previously the Prime Minister's Office itself has also expressed this view. It is not such a far-reaching perspective that December 2017 should be considered, specifically, when it was proposed that there should not be a tower in Hungary, Budapest, in a designated area for installation, or in an area not designated for installation. However, suddenly, unexpectedly, probably for some business reason, the Prime Minister's Office changed its position, and now it can be built, not only that it is 65 metres high, but it can reach the height of Kilimanjaro, not only that it is 90 metres high, but it can practically reach the height of Kilimanjaro, if there is any technical possibility. After all, if something is now classified as a priority investment from a national point of view, it can certainly receive the special installation parameters that, let us say, are already the height of the Gellért Hill. In the meantime, I was talking about the fact that this whole bill has one or only one interest in Hungary, Budapest, and this is the question of MOL Headquarters. We know that they had already received the building permit in the meantime, sometime in February, but, as it turns out, from press news, this was made clear and it was also said at the committee meeting that there is another tower house, which has already been built in Budapest, so to speak. We are talking about the area on the corner of Róbert Károly Boulevard and Váci út owned by the Israeli-Polish company GTC. It is also expected to be an extremely tall building of the size of a tower, but we know that in Újpesten, the buildings built by Metrodom on the other northern points of Váci út, are already over 65 metres according to the permit plan, so there is and there will be others involved in this particular bill. [[17.50]] Every built-in square metre, every new floor, is a gift of new property rights to these companies, apparently from a foreign background. How could they influence the Hungarian legislation that we have come to this point? So from December last year, it has hardly been six months, and we are now at the point of saying that anything can be built in Hungary today. I would like to report to this House that, in spite of knocking at the capital of the SZDSZ, the districts managed by the MSZP have been knocked on a similar initiative, and they are able to implement it in the case of a government claiming to be national. It's a shame and a disgrace, so we're not going to support it. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-218	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Tuzson Bence, State Secretary, whether he wishes to react at this stage or at a later stage of the debate. [[Tuzson Bence: Later.]] Later in the debate, Mr Secretary of State indicated. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, Fidesz Group.
u2018-07-02-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. The fundamental purpose of the bill on the amendment of the law on the regulation of the construction of high-rises is to ensure that in Hungary the building of a tower can not be built, as the appearance of our settlements is part of the local culture. From a municipal point of view, it is therefore appropriate to impose specific regulations and restrictions on tower houses. By means of the bill, the construction law was supplemented by this regulation and the relevant clear rules of application. Those national municipal protection objectives are ensured by the relevant rules of application and by the transitional provisions relating to their entry into force. The Parliament and its committees discussed the bill and adopted substantive amendments which are consistent with the reduction of bureaucracy and the reduction of administrative burdens. They will facilitate the speed of development, ensure that land affected by construction in investments of major importance for the national economy can be set up in order to lay down specific installation rules other than national settlement and construction requirements and to assist municipalities in carrying out their municipal planning tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, The preservation of valuable and unique architectural and image motives is a particularly important task, which this bill clearly serves. I therefore ask you, like me and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-07-02-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. This is the presentation of the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development related to the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The original purpose of the amendment of the law contained in the proposal, which was not exaggeration, but it was not possible to build a building or a tower of more than 65 metres in Hungary. There are many arguments in favour of this endeavour, including the architectural traditions of our Hungarian settlements, through which we have won a world heritage recognition on several occasions, and security considerations, let us consider the tower houses in London, the victims of the fire that has been raging for a year, or the calvary of the 80-metre high house and demolition of Pécs. At the same time, the proposal draws attention to a serious set of problems, namely the unconventional nature of the development of our cities, the complete disregard for the real needs of the population and the proposals of the professional organisations of urban planning, the lack of planning based on community participation, the insensitiveness and withdrawal of policy, the present and future well-being of the population, and the decisions that really serve the viability of cities and villages, while at the same time, we are witnessing the unlimited enforcement of the interests of some privileged investors and investors and the run-off of investment. At the same time, the main goal of the world is to make viable, sustainable cities. Unfortunately, there is no evidence of this in Hungary, despite the falling EU grants, because prestige investments absorb resources from urban rehabilitation work in the public interest. It is not the capital, it is not the districts, it is not the local people who decide the issues of urban development and planning, they are decided in higher political forums. We would like the government to finally bring drafts to this House, which are to say that the government sees the population, local communities, municipalities and professional organisations as partners. In addition to legal and institutional conditions, it is also necessary, for example, to ensure the independence of public authorities and to abolish the exemption of priority investments from the statutory requirements, to provide adequate resources. In addition, amendments to the draft have been made which would increase the permissible level of the tower to 90 metres; this would mean a tower of approximately 30 floors, and, in the case of investments that are highlighted from a sports, cultural and economic point of view, an immediate exemption may be granted. Unfortunately, the Economic Committee supported the amendment to raise the permissible level to 90 metres. The minority of the Committee on Sustainable Development did not support the adoption of the amendment in its minority opinion. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-02-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members in the time frame on the agenda and therefore no two-minute speeches will be possible in the course of the debate. Please press the normal button, please. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-02-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Enikő Hegedűs, has already mentioned a certain tower building on the corner of Váci út-Róbert Károly körút in the area before the police palace, since he has already received the building permit. Why is this tower important, because it's an iconic area. Since the 1990s, a tower was planned for this area. As my fellow Member said, SZDSZ-MSZP governments and city management were not able to lobby us for what lobbying means, usually buying money to allow this investment. You wouldn't have had anything else to do, so it's iconic, because it looks like the Fidesz government had that lobby power, that power, maybe the power of money, which still allows this tower to be built up. If you had taken the trouble to see whether the Capital Assembly or the XIII. district government, because where one or the other has crossed this investment, why did you reject these requests, for what reasons, then you would have had the opportunity to reconsider such proposals, in which you would, of course, be able to grant permission to anyone. The main arguments were that this investment was contrary to the interests of the country. The construction of a tower on the Róbert Károly körút is contrary to the interests of Budapest, for several reasons. One of the reasons is that Róbert Károly körút is one of the wind tunnels of Budapest. This means that from the smog and from what the city produces, it can clear half the city through these wind ducts to make Budapest more livable, and such a wind tunnel would be blocked by such a tower, which would cause damage to the city. The other thing that is harmful to Budapest is that if you allow such towers to flourish, they will open up the possibility of building more and more towers in Budapest, because on what basis one investor will be banned and on what basis will the other investor be allowed to do serious damage, and will destroy the city's image over the decades and centuries. And there is another third thing that you could pay attention to, which was also an important point in preventing construction at the time, where this building will be built. [[18.00]] My fellow Member has said here that we are talking about foreign investors. In front of the police palace. There'll be a few meters between them. In addition to one of Hungary's most important structures in terms of security, foreign investors will be allowed to invest in a house in which, who knows, what will be installed there. Do you think that this is a good condition for Hungary's security, that you allow foreign investors to build a tower on almost the police palace? You should think about it. Not everything is money, gentlemen. Money isn't everything. More important is the safety of Hungary, it is more important that Budapest remains a livable city, it is more important to preserve the built city than that you, depending on who you are best friends with, who you hope to benefit from, in one person, because we know that we can talk about government here and Fidesz and other ministers and everything else, that in one person Viktor Orbán decides on the most important issues in Hungary; you want to allow almost one person to have a tower standing up if Viktor Orbán likes something, and if he does not like it, then you do not want a tower to rise there. It's simply nonsense in a rule of law. You want to give yourself special permits in all areas, almost so that you can run this country in one person and decide on such important matters. I think they will do the best for Hungary, and they will do the best for you if this proposal is withdrawn as it is. There should not be such towers in Hungary, there should be no possibility... Save yourself from the possibility of corruption that various investors are trying to approach you to grant permission on a national strategy basis. Mr. Secretary. Believe me, it's much better if you or any of your associates are not approached by such investors. If this law is revoked, you can immediately remove a huge burden from your shoulders, you don't have to refuse these investors, you don't have to tell them that you're not corrupt, and you can't bribe you to issue certain permits. I ask that this proposal be withdrawn. Believe me, this is what's best for everyone. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group.
u2018-07-02-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Please state exactly when and where the social debate took place in this bill. When and where did the social dialogue take place, based on which you feel authorized to play the role of Budapest in the big cities and, as a matter of fact, in order to enable the construction of tower houses in Budapest? We are talking about the fact that the Metropolitan Assembly, of which I was a member six months ago, has fought for decades against this being possible. I know that you will respond only at the end of the debate so that we cannot react, but, Mr. Secretary of State, if you go out, I must say that we are talking about the fact that the fabric of the traditionally formed Hungarian cities does not fit in Budapest, in Debrecen or in Miskolc, and I will also give you a concrete example, Pécs. The high-house project in Pécs was also a huge failure in Pécs, because it is simply a stranger to the urban planning practice and tradition that Hungarian architecture has shown in hundreds of years. Dear House, I think it is a sin written in this law, because it contributes to architecture, building buildings that destroy world heritage-protected visions that exclude building licensing processes from all control functions, we call this a priority investment. If we look at the way the law was born, it is clear that we are now seeing the outcome of a cross-border market negotiation in the amended text of the bill. What we see is that we simply started a bargaining process, that we do not want buildings of more than 65 metres in height to be built, and then we started a bargaining process to make it good, to be 90 meters in return, but in return you will not receive compensation, and otherwise wink at MOL, if we make it a major investment, then we can also build 120 meters of boots, which will ruin the view of Budapest in its own rudeness. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Fidesz Members, I'm not gonna tell the joke for the 92th time that I'm gonna tell the two Fidesz congressmen. But please don't allow this law to destroy the beloved city that is the capital of our country. Do not allow us to destroy cities close to our hearts, such as Szeged, Kecskemét, Pécs, with such laws. There's no need for tall buildings, these tall buildings. Simply from our strange traditions. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-07-02-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group.
u2018-07-02-227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, There's a saying that you can't pull two skins off a fox. It's a Hungarian proverb. Dakota proverb may not exist, but we can even see that a fox will not only be pulled off by two, but by virtually unlimited skin. This means that corruption in this case is not in the interest of a case, it is not in the interest of an investor group, but in the interest of more. Mr. Secretary of State was such a coward the other day that he did not respond substantially to the idea of building the MOL Tower, namely that for six months the bill had been put to sleep, which would have made it impossible to build the MOL Tower, and then, when the building permit was obtained, the process started again. Then, Mr. Secretary of State, changing himself from 65 to 90 meters, he suddenly raised the potential height of the towers. And a day or two later, the news came that the GTC Tower, so to speak, would be exactly 90 meters. Once again, the question arises that only the constitutional cost was not high enough for such an amendment to be submitted. It may also be worth mentioning here that we have also asked the Secretary of State with a written question, how many forints he has spent on this, zero or something very large. There are many valid answers to this, but I would like to hear it from your own mouth or from your own pen, written down in your keyboard, to see what you have come up with about this. Yeah, what you call a reduction in bureaucracy, and on the basis of which this amendment was pushed through in the Legislative Committee, based on the fact that it may not appear to anyone, the reduction in bureaucracy is that they do not form a normative regulation, but hold the discretionary right to decide on a case-by-case basis how many forints of such an exception is worth, from which group of investors, from which big capital knife is intended to build a tower, how many forints should be buttoned and placed in the Fidesz register. These modifiers, Amending Points 4 and 6, which states that they are intended for installation and not intended for installation in an area intended for the orderly design and urban protection of Hungary's built environment, except for those mentioned in Article 4. The property under § 3a, for which the government may lay down the rules for installation in a decree, shall not be housed in a tower, shall not be converted into a tower house, nor expanded. So, basically, the amendment of the law has lost its meaning, everything has been excluded from the tower law, not just the monuments, but also the investments that are of major importance for the national economy, understand, anything. As has already been used as a priority for the national economy, it is in fact investments to fatten the Fidesz cash register, which is in your best interest. It has nothing to do with the national economy, it's simply about legalizing corruption. From now on, unfortunately, I cannot agree with my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, that there would be a lack of concept in terms of regulating the built environment in Fidesz's head. [[18.10]] There is a very strong concept: the opportunity to unbutton as much money as possible should be greater. From now on, I cannot agree with my colleague Szilágyi nor do I see the reality of asking you nicely to save yourself from the possibility of corruption. You are making a law to open the door to corruption as widely as possible, the more money you can collect, it doesn't matter whether it involves damage to the settlement image, harm to our health, damage to the interests of the national economy or to security aspects. It doesn't matter to Fidesz, only how many forints they can collect in connection with the granting of exceptions to such a law. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-228	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will be a speech from Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, but I saw that the Secretary of State had just gotten very excited and came and went, trying to get answers from the Deputy Secretary of State, so let's give him the opportunity to answer us now. [[Tuzson Bence: At the end, thank you.]] No? You don't want to live with that? Well, bravery, Mr. Secretary. There's so many nice questions for you, I'm sure you could answer all of them, right? And then the debate could continue. No? Okay, well, he's only gonna answer at the end, like he used to. I'm sorry, this can be called an escape of duty, what you're doing here, that you simply don't come in, and now there's only one representative in the Chamber, and, by the way, on this very important issue that will determine the next few years and decades, no one dares to argue with us. At the very beginning of the trial of the bill, you started with a vast historical overview, so now allow me a much shorter overview of what you have done in the last eight years on building regulations. How many times the construction law was amended, I counted for a while, and then I couldn't count, because these amendments practically multiplied by division, but I'm sure all of them pointed in the same direction, namely in the direction of the oligarchs close to you, or politicians close to you, public figures, in some way, are doing very well. So it was usually possible to track them because they came out of press reports and other comments about whose behalf you would amend the construction regulations. There were times when one of their fellow Members was unable to make a construction permit, and the bill was amended. At times, Antal Rogán himself practically took the liberty on the first day of his ministry, and submitted a step of quite a mile in this sense, and interrupted the construction practice of the twenty years before that and the public agreement on spatial planning. But there were times when DÉSZ was created, or the EMÉSZ, that certain areas were taken out of the territory of Budapest, and they decided to form a completely separate regulation, obviously in order to make sure that there were investments in preparation there that would not only serve the interests of the nation, but also obviously, and primarily, corruption and the financial benefits of certain investor circles. That's what bureaucracy cuts talk about. But tell me, how exactly will this be achieved in the practice of everyday life, that civil servants working in the construction department will not have to look at corruption? ! So we're gonna need fewer civil servants, because they're not even gonna have to look at them when these building permits are issued? What exactly is that gonna mean? You are, by the way, withdrawing very serious powers from local authorities in order to exercise their rights of regulation. Because when we talk about the area of investments that are of national importance, you can involve the creation of construction rules, but here you are talking only about land, but this may be a lot of land; it could be a whole block or a whole part of the city. After all, for each plot, you can say that this is a priority for the national economy. Or, where appropriate, a whole settlement? I don't dare to think about it, because unfortunately it doesn't tell us what the limit is until the world forgives us, but in its insolence the government will go away in this sense. [[Tuzson Bence interrupts.]] When you spoke in your introduction about what beautiful buildings were built in Budapest after the settlement and how high they were, so even then this height was extremely important to you, let us remember for a short time that these buildings were otherwise beautiful. I am talking here about Parliament's building, I am talking about St. Stephen's Basilica, so it's nice to look at these, to remember the people who created those laws, they were in those laws so that these buildings could be built. But how will history remember you? In 50 to 100 years, if there are more Hungarians here in Budapest, how will they remember you? Yeah, those were the politicians who were extremely, let's say it... although you don't think it's possible to have an aesthetic debate between the walls of this House, and I think if it's somewhere, it could be here. So how will they remember you: these were the politicians who allowed the mass and multitude of extremely ugly buildings just to gain weight in their own pockets? So I think that what you are about to do here is a historical sin. Consider, therefore, that the final vote has not yet taken place, and that is to say, the wealth rights that these investors will receive from you at a snap, rather than, by the way, allowing local authorities to conclude contracts with these investors in the framework of a spatial planning contract, and then, in fact, there would be a Community control of what, where, how big and how these investors can build, instead of taking these rights to themselves, and taking away the opportunity from the communities to influence their own environment. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-230	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi of the LMP Group.
u2018-07-02-231	[[No sound.]] Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I'm a little pissed off at my fellow Member because... [[Intercoms, including, "No mics." The speaker puts his microphone on.]] I'm sorry. Thank you for the floor. So, I'm a little angry with my fellow Member, because at the end of his speech, he basically told me half of what I wanted to say. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] To cut back on the realization of urban development concepts. The fact that spatial planning contracts are indirectly impossible and deprecated is terrible. Believe me, when István Garancsi first came up with the Kopasi dam plans, this is exactly what we missed at the meeting of the Metropolitan Assembly, because he dreamed of a quarter of the city with 40,000 inhabitants, and believe me, if a tower is built in this order of magnitude at any point in the city, because it is immediately the public services that must be installed there, because it is the duty of the municipalities, it is not necessary to conduct an impact assessment, it is possible to avoid the cityscape process, it is necessary to say that you are a priority investment, an investment for us. And I understand those Fidesz MEPs who argue for him, by the way, because let's face it, the big cities and only a part of them are at risk in connection with this law. For example, Móron will certainly not build a tower, and the same cannot be said about Budapest. And to destroy the otherwise healthy urban fabric of Budapest, which has been created over the centuries, is a very extreme sin, and that they have a bad conscience, it perfectly shows that the Secretary of State refuses to argue. He's gonna come up from the pulpit, from an imaginary pulpit, when there's no way to answer, and he's gonna tell you his arguments that we were just talking nonsense. I am only afraid, Mr State Secretary, that this law will start a long-term process that may mean that we may not recognize Budapest in a few years' time. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-232	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, to the extent possible. Here you go.
u2018-07-02-233	I am telling you this so that the President will not reprimand you for yelling: Mr Secretary, I think it is a very cowardly thing that you refuse to argue, you refuse to state your arguments. Even in such a short time frame, he will not be willing to argue, but he will make a statement in the closing words, and he will tell you how well you see this and how honest you are. I think it's a cowardly thing. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.20]]
u2018-07-02-234	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak within the time frame available to them. [[No one's reporting. Dániel Z. Carpathian: If Fidesz surrenders his time, then yes!]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-02-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This is not the first time we have talked about this issue, since we have already discussed this matter in the committee during the detailed debate. Accordingly, I think that I have already indicated at committee meetings, at several committee meetings, but I would like to tell you that you are in some kind of mistake. Under the current legislation, which is now in force, the legislation adopted by the Socialists provides that a building of up to 120 metres could be built, and also with a height of construction. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin, on the Baldian dam? You said you couldn't!]] That is not what the current legislation is about. In addition, according to the current regulations, we are introducing a new concept, which will no longer regulate the height of the building, but the total height of the building, from earth to earth to the top. So far, this type of restriction, which has just been included in the legislation, has not been, has not been, has not been such a restriction. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: We said you couldn't build on the Kopaszi dam!]] Also, do not forget that the law itself constitutes a framework, and on the basis of the framework, municipalities make up their own rules. Accordingly, it is worth regulating, as there are parts of Budapest today where, by the way, according to previous regulations, a 120-metre building could be built. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So, in the event that... But there is, dear congresswoman, there is a part of the city where a 120-metre building could be built according to today's regulations. Pay attention to these questions. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: The original law... the president is ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, I think that if we were to adopt your proposal and withdraw this bill, this limit would exist. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He has just thrown it at our eyes, pointing it at us that we want to limit the freedom of the municipalities, and with his other word, he says that we should withdraw this bill and allow them to build a 120-metre building. [[Antal Csárdi: That's not what he said!]] And with his third word, he says that there should be even more restrictions on the municipalities. If we are going to take part in the principle of where the possibility of regulating local governments is, the limit that can be introduced by a law, then these two things should be mixed together somehow. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: That's not what I'm talking about!]] In this Parliament, we have an opportunity, and I think that this legislation gives us this opportunity precisely, taking into account the principle of stairism. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: He can be as tall as he can be!]] a decision can be taken on a professional basis, taking into account all the principles, and this is what it is about, that above a 65-metre rule, a higher building could be built only on a professional basis, with the consent of the Planning Board, at the time. [[Mrs Loránt Hegedűs: Unless it is a priority for the national economy.]] If, by the way, this is included in the local legislation. And there is a third option: the case of investments highlighted by the national economy, when it is possible to derogate from these rules, in a completely exceptional way. But back to the building that was mentioned here, the building at the Árpád Bridge. According to today's regulations, without any restrictions, a tower building higher than that laid down by law can be built on that plot. If this regulation enters into force, it would be possible to build a building up to 90 metres with the consent of a plan council. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Unless you have a national rating! Z. Carpathian Daniel: He's lying! The president's ringing the bell.]] If the current legislation were to enter into force, this would be the rule, and such a rule would be in place. So I am saying that when my fellow Member says that we should withdraw the regulation, he will allow any tower to be built here without further ado. That would be nonsense, my dear fellow Member. This is not what the regulation looks like, and it is worth always hearing, reading the bill in detail, and making a statement accordingly on what was the legislation in force, and what will happen after we have adopted this bill. Look around Budapest and see what buildings are being built! By the way, the tower you mentioned as a firehouse in connection with the London case is a tower on the border, which, by the way, could fit into the 65-metre rule, but obviously, the rules and other rules of fire enforcement must always be taken into account. These rules cannot be derogated from, so the administrative contributions still need to be retained in these cases. Believe me, fellow Members, in the case of a complex regulation, in the case of the establishment of a framework, the government and, above all, Parliament have tasks to form a framework, and then the framework will be filled with content by the local governments according to the rules. We are introducing a national barrier, which is not at the moment, there is no limit to the heights of the building today. [[György Szilágyi: We don't build this anyway!]] In this way, it is not possible to derogate from the national restriction, as well as from local legislation. So there is a national rule that must always apply from this point of view. My fellow Member from Turda has repeatedly been shocked by his comments, as my fellow Member is always talking about money in Parliament. My fellow Member, you must really like money when you think about everything, every word you say is about money. It seems to me that you want to turn the world around in your life and in your next life. [[György Szilágyi: You are his muses! Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] My dear fellow Member, Once, with at least one comment, you could also promote professionalism in the Parliament and start evaluating the legislation on a professional basis, for once! My fellow Member has not long been a Member, but if he can only talk about money, sooner or later the question of money will be on his hands, and believe me, if he finds himself in such a situation, his own party will not be able to help you. Therefore, I suggest you be careful in this matter, sitting in Parliament, and if you are speaking to a law in Parliament, please do this on a professional basis, because you are always talking about money, and you seem to only think about money. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2018-07-02-236	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Antal Paulik, a Slovakian nationalist spokesperson for the post-municipal speech entitled "The Memorial Day of St Cyril and Methodius, the National Feast of Slovaks in Hungary." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Thank you for your understanding. You have the floor.
u2018-07-02-237	.akujem za slovo. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, vázení pritomní! Predovšetkým mi dovoľte, aby som vyjadril svoju radosť, že v Dolnej snemovni ma.arského parlamentu môže znovu zaznieť slovenské slovo. Teší ma táto možnosť. Svojím príhovorom chcem pripomenúť najväčší sviatak Slovakiav v Ma.arsku, ktorý je spojený s pamätným dňom Svätého Cyrila a Svätého Metóda. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, First of all, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Slovak word can be heard again in the lower house of the Hungarian Parliament. I'm happy for this opportunity. With my speech after the agenda, I would like to remember Europe's co-sponsors, Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius. Today, when we often mention the Christian roots of Europe and the Carpathian Basin, the people of the Carpathian Basin, I think it is not useless to recall that the distribution and institutionalization of Christian faith in our country did not begin with the baptism of St. Stephen. Our people are baptized, yet they don't have a teacher. We don't understand Greek and Latin. We do not know the written letters or the meaning of them, so send us teachers who make us understand the words of the Scriptures and their meanings. ................................................................................................................................................................................... In the second half of the century C.E., Prince Rastislav Morva turned to the then ruler of Byzantine III. To Michael. And then III. Michael decided to comply with the request of the Moravian prince, the two brothers, Cyril and Metod, were the best choice: they had already visited the Kazars as missionaries, where they proved their competence, and did not find the relics of Pope Saint Kelemen's martyrdom, and they both knew the language of the Slavs in the area of Saloniki. The two missionaries and their attendants arrived in the Moravian Empire in 863, they did not come empty-handed: they brought with them the texts of the Eastern Ritual Christian liturgy translated from Greek to Slavic, the translation of parts of the Bible, and a new Slavic alphabet, the so-called glagolite, which was also compiled by Saint Cyril on the basis of Greek and Hebrew characters. According to historians, although the Slavic peoples living in Europe at the time did not speak the same language, they also consistently claim that the Slavic tribes in each region understood each other without any problems. [[18.30]] In essence, this is why today the Slavic nationalities living in the territory of our country, as well as the neighbouring Slavic nations, bind the two missionaries to the emergence of Slavic writing in Pannonia and in the mother countries of their communities. In addition to spreading the language liturgy in Slav, the establishment of the first school of priests in today's Zalavar is connected to the two brothers in Slavic language. The two brothers, interrupting the conversion mission in Moravia, traveled to Rome in 867 to see the pope, Pope II. Ask Adorjan for his approval to use the Slavic language liturgy. They took with them the relics of St. Clement with them. Perhaps thanks to this, they also received the Pope's support, who, after Cyril's death in Rome, encouraged Metod to return to Moravia and continue his activities in the vicinity of Nitra. To confirm his support, he not only allowed the use of the Slavic language liturgy, but appointed himself Archbishop. Following the death of Method in 885, his disciples were driven out of the Carpathian Basin by the Frankish missionaries, who then continued the work of St Cyril and St Methodius in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and South Poland and spread their teaching. The Slavic language, or as we call it today, has evolved thanks to the alphabet and active ecclesiastical use, and today a large proportion of Europe's inhabitants speak one of the Slavic languages that grew out of it. Among the Slavic peoples of Hungary, the respect of Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius survived the confusion of the migration, and the reorganization of the Catholic Church by St. Stephen, and the tradition that still lives to this day. This is where we derive our Christian roots and take our native writing from the glagolica. That is why the General Assembly of the National Slovak Municipality decided shortly after its establishment - that it would make the sacred Memorial Day of the two Salonikis the greatest celebration of our nationality. Since 1996, Hungarian Slovaks have celebrated the Hungarian Slovaks' Day on the first Saturday of July, this year in Békéscsaba celebrating the 300th anniversary of its resettlement. The festival commemorates each year the two saints II. In December 1980, Pope John Paul declared himself Europe's co-protective saint. In the memorial park of St Cyril and St. Methodius near Zalavar, where other Slavic ethnicities, Bulgarians and Slovenians also set up a memorial post for the missionaries, the Slovak Municipality of Budapest set up the two statues of the two saints. The Hungarian Army and the Slovak Republic's armed forces have been organizing a memorial here for the eighth year in connection with the 5th of July. Europe's co-protective saints thus continue to promote the spirit of understanding between the two nations, Slovak and Hungarian, and more broadly between the Hungarians and the surrounding Slavic peoples. .akujem Vám za posornosť. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-02-238	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik-képvi-sőlősztó-társaság also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title "Absolutely left out of the budget debate." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-02-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If they were to dooze the entire southern ferret of Somogyland, many of us here in the pro-government benches wouldn't be hurt. Believe me, many people in the southern and inner part of Somogy County feel this way, perhaps even adding that they would not notice this shortage. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, disprove these words, these very sad thoughts, and when you vote on the budget and on the budget amendments, this should come to the mind of some of you, and I would like to ask you to support the amendments that we have made in order to give such areas, such as my narrower Patria, an opportunity to survive. For as strange as it is for many people, but also south of Kaposvár, Hungarian people and tax-paying citizens live in Somogy County, who want to stay there, want to thrive there, who want their children to stay there and not have to thrive in a foreign country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Some statistics, in fact the most recent available figures, are that if they are false, you forged them: the proportion of registered job seekers in the Barcsi district is 19.4 percent, in the district of Nagyatád 21.9 percent and in the district of Csurgó is 19.9 percent. Situations near disaster, ladies and gentlemen. That should change. And how can it be changed? We've been saying for years that if there's work, there's everything. But how will there be work for the people living there? Only if the level of education, which is very low in these walks, is raised in some way; if we try to improve the conditions that have created this terrible situation, in some way, let us say, through education. But what we see is that you will spend more than HUF 15 billion on education and public education for the next year. This is the sum of a month's wealth growth of the polyhistorian who thinks himself smarter than Zuckerberg in the past year. This is what education is meant for, and we say that nothing can be more important than early development, because if you save pennies here, it will beat us a hundred times, a thousand times, to the future of demographic and sociocultural trends. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why much more money, much more resources should be devoted to these areas. And yes, it must also be said that there is a time when a child's last refuge is the boarding school. Resources should also be provided for this. If we had, say, the level of education, then what would be necessary to get this region out of this problem would be nothing more than a good infrastructure, because a hundred years ago, when Jókai was in Somogyar, he said that such trips were not even in Bosnia. Yeah, you could be having a traumatic experience right now, say, with a government party puppy who'd be wrong about that, yeah, you'd better get in there with a helicopter or some kind of $20 million SUV with a good suspension. But you write and say it for road repair. This year, money for 38-30 kilometers of renovation is intended for the county. There is little, since it has more than 1,700 kilometers of road network, and the mayors say that if there is no normal access to this area, it is impossible to dream of investors and jobs. Government Congresswoman Ladies and Gentlemen! Please also think of the orphaned South Somogy region, and when you vote on the budget, remember the people who live there. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda with the title ending of a programme on Saturday. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-02-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week's budget debate spoke very little about the public workers, and I gave this title to my speech after today's agenda for a reason, because this Saturday, VI. The current community service programme ended by 30 months. Over the past few years, there have been a number of changes in public employment, and there has been an extremely unfair change that makes the lives of many of our countrymen more difficult. This is that anyone who has a higher education than eight primary schools, whether he is a vocational worker or a graduate, can no longer be employed within the framework of public employment. In a large part of the 71 settlements of the Somogy 4 constituency, the municipality is the only employer who employs people who have not been able to work on the primary labour market as part of public employment. We consider it important, of course, that everyone should target the primary labour market, gain experience there, and get to life as soon as possible, of course, with wages that they can support their family. [[18.40]] But when there is no other option, what can they do? I was just talking to a mayor this weekend, who said that there was a public employee who unfortunately could not be re-employed from Monday; he had a cover, he had a degree, he fell out of the program, but he couldn't see fully, so he couldn't do his job precisely, but in the life of the settlement, when it might be necessary to help him maintain public spaces, he could do it, and he was a very useful member of society, but unfortunately he couldn't do the job appropriate to his qualifications. And there is another aspect of this public work programme, and these are public workers in the field of public education. Let's face it that those who work in the field of public education have even less opportunities in the primary labour market, since most of them have carried out work tasks and work processes in libraries and other community houses in smaller settlements. They can't be re-employed either. What about them? Where are they gonna go to work? And besides, how are they going to support their families? Believe me, there is no shortage of workers everywhere, there are many people suffering, most of all in settlements under 200, there is virtually no other job. These measures must be considered and the opportunity must be created for these people to have income, because it is very right for you to say that full employment must be sought in the country, but there are places where the municipalities are the only solution. One more thing, which has also come to light virtually continuously in recent years, is that these public works will be ongoing: invested in farming agricultural products with the help of the state, these agricultural products are used in their institutions, kindergartens, schools for catering, and they are practically there no longer able to involve them to cultivate these areas. And then let's not even talk about the fact that someone has invested and acquired the equipment in the production of stone, and they are, in fact, at this point in time that this activity must be suspended. I'm asking you, what about these tools? The state invests in you and then leaves you alone? After all, the municipality itself will not be able to re-employ these people from its own resources. So I wanted a programme to end on Saturday, and the next one started today - so that people who have not yet found an opportunity elsewhere, in the primary labour market, could participate in the programme. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-242	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group has also applied for a post- Agenda speech, and unfortunately this is also happening from the faucet. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-02-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the water from the faucet is bad, and it's on Tiszagyenda. And although it seems that Tiszagyenda is a very small settlement, a small village of less than a thousand people in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, near Tisza, the district of Kunhegyes, but in this problem not only this thousand people have problems with drinking water quality programmes, but also the systemic problem of the whole country, because I do not think that there is a need to hide the idea and criticism from all sides of this horseshoe - that in many places the programme for improving the quality of drinking water, which was implemented from EU sources, which ran up from 2007, is facing almost everywhere with some challenge and some shortcomings. Well, this is also the case in Tiszagyenda, where there has been a development that has affected 13 settlements, in which 10 new water utilities have been built, among them the research of the Tiszagyenda, which is now regularly between the walls of the House, because, if I remember correctly, I am bringing the problem here for a third time, because there is a problem that is constantly and persisting that the health limits are confused, on the one hand, far beyond the limits, this excess is a bad performance, it is not a very good performance - so the water flows from the tap is bad. As a result, the provider regularly prohibits water consumption in the settlement, every month on recurring occasions, and there is essentially nothing else there than what we have experienced in our presence, that when someone opens the tap, it comes out practically like a soil or some dirt-contaminated material, sometimes yellow, sometimes brown-colored, otherwise sedimentary, stinky water flows, and this occurs again. People have nothing else to do with this, they no longer use the water from the tap, but instead they bring and carry in PET bottles to practically tons of water that they can use at all for consumption, meals, cooking or drinking. Of course, the municipality is unable to solve this problem, because the municipality does not have so much resources. In Hungary, I think that the municipality of a thousand-man settlement would not have had the chance in 30 years to invest in the place of the wrong well of any kind on its own power, which I am indicating, with our money from the European Union, otherwise it was likely that it was heavily corrupted to make it useless for the settlement. So, the municipality can't meet this criterion to operate it as a new well. But here is the attitude of the Tiszamenti Regional Waterworks, who always say that they will correct the current problem, but not by replacing it and not using the more expensive solution, but by improving a filter, I would add, in Tiszamenti Regional Waterworks Zrt. there is nothing else than the son of your Chief Migration Advisor, Mr Bakondi, because obviously, in his family they know not only migration but also clean water, so the apple is not far from the fidesz tree, this big company, the state company also has a quarterback close to Fidesz. Of course, they don't care about the problem of the people of Tiszagyenda, their weekly restrictions on water consumption, and they certainly don't care about what kind of water the people of Tiszagyenda have to consume in this company. Ladies and gentlemen, One thing should finally be changed apart from water quality and water. These projects are typically implemented in the South Great Plain and implemented in the eastern and central parts of the Great Plain, very largely useless, poorly executed, technically very weak feet and are highly likely to be burdened with corruption. If we quote János Lázár in this, he said something like this: the vast majority of EU-funded investments are overpriced and the money disappears in private pockets. Well, that could have been the case in Tiszagyenda, where this water utility development was successfully implemented. But to talk not only about the problem, let us also talk about the proposals for solutions, because a legislative act, the government, as the executive of these laws, should also find a solution, it is important to review all such projects. It is important that from Surjány to Tiszagyenda or Hodmezővásárhely, and if there is a mistake, the person responsible for the errors must be sought and held accountable, even if these obligations cannot be enforced from the EU investment. In addition to finding those responsible, local governments need to be helped, as we see that the local people and the local authorities are left alone with this problem. There's got to be a way to do this. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to bring in the water problem of these settlements until the government solves it, because it is impossible that in Hungary the 21st century will be the only one. Let stinky, dirty water flow in the century and put people's health at risk. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-244	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, applied for a speech:. E.g. day-to-day physical education v. 7 p.m. Physics. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-02-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure my fellow Member, Gergely Arató, on behalf of physics, let alone against it. [[Gergely Harvester: It's okay. Defiance.]] Everyday physical education was introduced by the Orbán government with the tone that everyday physical education should be provided in the number of hours available for children's learning in order to protect children's health. At the first moment, we all knew that this was an idea that was unenforceable. Since then, seven years have passed, and we see in terms of numbers that while 457 schools had no gymnasium at all, 157 had no sports field, 58 percent knew that they would not be able to do all of this, compared to this, only 30 gymnasiums were built in seven years. [[18.50]] I do not want to discuss in detail the question of the fact that it is impossible to carry out this everyday physical education in a physical sense; rather, I would like to talk about the distorted relations that this institution has created in the education of children with regard to the schedule of hours. The legislation says that out of the five days, three days in the morning time frame will have to solve the physical education class, and two in the afternoon sessions. This means that if an eight - grade school has three classes in each grade, it means that 72 hours of physical education is given a week, which if divided into five days, means 14.4 hours a day in the morning time band. We know that 14.4 hours cannot be pushed into the morning time band, so it was clear from the provision itself that it was impossible to do so, since this time frame lasts from eight to noon in the morning, up to an hour. But what's physics class got to do with it? For example, it comes here in physics, whether you like it or not, if you look at the subjects in children's education, which are the subjects that require the greatest effort for children to master them at a high level, for example, one of them is physics. Of course, mathematics can also be called here, chemistry, biology. It doesn't matter which subject of public knowledge we call here, which is basically science-based, and indeed the curriculum, as children who master it well can be truly educated heads of people, it is very difficult. This system, which was created, meant that although it is the second hour of physical education, the seventh hour will be the physics class so that all classes of the entire school can be assigned to that one, two or some split gym. This is to the point that the most difficult curriculum, the most serious material, is to learn in the sixth, seventh, eighth hours of high school as early as the eighth hour. No adult of this kind, of this weight, has been able to understand, process and properly observe the time spent long hours with the other subjects after all this time. When I was a child here in the House, not many people my age were as old as I was - then there was that kind of exercise at school, when during a break, the physical education teacher conducted it. The children stood in the halls, and we were able to do gymnastics exercises in 5 minutes, as instructed by the speaker, and indeed, in the justification of the legislation, that this type of movement in the children's circulatory system was so beneficial that it would make learning easier, not by daily physical education for 45 minutes, but by this type of exercise for 5-6 minutes. When we criticize something, we always strive to make suggestions, how to resolve it wisely. In terms of the number of hours of public knowledge, when by 2016, there was a terrible crisis in the fact that children are unable to perform because of their excessive hours, not from their daily physical education, they took an hour, but reduced the number of hours of public knowledge objects to make it as difficult as possible to train educated heads of people. My request and suggestion is that the government should reconsider this system of measures, and that they should introduce, for a few minutes during a break, an exercise for children that may replace all that can serve the same purpose by taking up physical education for 1-2 hours a week, but rationalizing the number of hours. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-246	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-02-247	Mr President, Dear House, Life sometimes overrides the planned issues of opposition, because when I prepared for this agenda, I could not expect the exchange rate of the forint to exceed the 330 for the euro. I am also a fan of the fact that a tiny breeze does not need to change either the government's economic policy or the MNB's various inflation goals or interest policies, but when the tiny breeze seems to develop a storm, it is better to intervene sooner and suffer minor damage. I would like to say that my main problem is not only that the real interest rate is negative, and this does not encourage investment, but I approach this issue mostly from the point of view of foreign exchange credit damage and credibility. My objective is clearly to maintain low interest rates for as long as possible. At the moment, we are faced with a situation of decision-making where there are other options than raising interest rates to deal with future problems. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank does not take advantage of all these opportunities, it does not step away from them, and the government does not take advantage of these processes, while transforming its economic policy in a smarter direction, even pouring oil on the fire. We see that the central bank responsible for controlling inflation could intervene in a number of ways. On the one hand, with decent communication, not with narrow communications and condescending answers. The second is the already mentioned interest rate increase, which I would like to avoid and push as much as possible. Although it can also be seen that the world's daily trend will consist of successive steps in raising interest rates. I would like Hungary to join this as soon as possible. Thirdly, other measures, such as fine-tuning of the interest corridor, can be used to achieve meaningful steps to preserve our own security. It can also be seen that one of Viktor Orbán's earlier economic policy arguments that weak forints are good for so-called exporting companies has failed from a national approach. If we look at the volume of exports of the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector, then I don't know if we should cry or laugh at the end, and this is not due to the fault of the companies concerned, but to the completely flawed economic policy of the government. I would like to say that the volume of exports that Viktor Orbán protects with blood and sweat, even at the cost of maintaining a weak forint, is typically carried out by foreign economic interests, by one of you, something that does not necessarily serve the interests of the Hungarian economy in a narrower sense. The Orbán government also decided for a long time that the EU funds drawn would be worth more on the domestic market, besides a weak forint, so it could receive more forints for the euro. In this incredibly childish attitude, the intervention did not fail not only because the National Bank did not recognise the problems, but, in my view, the National Bank is acting as if it were a profit-oriented organisation, so achieving its own profitability has become a kind of impossible for itself. On behalf of Jobbik, I proposed that the Hungarian National Bank pay its current so-called profits and surplus on a mandatory basis on the basis of a German model for the Hungarian budget, not in an optional and optional way. Jobbik suggests that this amount should be grouped into a compensation fund, which should help those who have suffered problems before, as well as those who have already been evicted from their homes. Therefore, respect must be brought into this system. I have to say, the first little breeze really doesn't have to give up the low interest rate environment, but when there's a storm coming, Zoltán Kovács, government spokesperson, does amazing bad things when he tells us that it doesn't rule out speculation processes. So you're pouring oil on the fire, painting the appearance of a weak, inoperable government. The fault of the Orbán government in this whole system, because we do not compare the MNB with the government's economic policy, the fault of the Orbán government is clearly that it fails to pursue countercyclical economic policy and has failed to accumulate it in the more advanced years. It failed to collect, reserve, say, state funds, which can finance productive investments and which create them, contribute to the stockpiling processes of future reserves, where appropriate. Now, 11 years after the global crisis, when the world is much, I stress, much more indebted than in the previous crisis period, it would be expected that the government would adapt its economic policy, recognise the problems and take meaningful steps to ensure that not only the low interest rate levels can be maintained, but also the financial security of Hungarian people as long as possible in the world's whirlpools. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-02-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group also applied for an after-the-date address, because of the Orbán government, no more children will be born. I give you the floor. [[19.00]]
u2018-07-02-249	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In recent weeks and months, you have repeatedly talked about the need for more children to be born. We agree on that. Increasing the number of Hungarians is a national issue. But in order to deal with a problem, first of all, we need to be aware of the reasons. Why do Hungarian women give birth less and less? Have you asked that question yet? 'Cause I've never seen this idea from a government perspective before. Two surveys can help you to answer that. According to the 2017 KSH Statistical Mirror, the decrease in birth numbers in 2017 occurred in parallel to the decline in the number of women of childbearing age. In other words, fewer women are having babies, and those who are having children are having their first child at an older age, meaning that they have less and less time to have more children. Since the average age of the first child is getting closer to Britain's data, it is worth looking at the answers they have received to this problem. Hold on, gentlemen, 75 percent of British women believe that having children is the main obstacle to their own financial situation. In the Hungarian press there was a similar round question, where the same result was. In other words, Hungarian women's children's commitment is determined to a decisive extent by their financial situation. It is no coincidence that the MSZP has been urging women to receive the same salary as men for the same work for many years. This would not only be fair, but also serve to increase the number of nations. So if you really think it is important for Hungary's demographic indicators to improve, you should accept very quickly our proposal that equal pay for equal work for Hungarian women. You must honor women, the government should carry us in the palm of its hands. In comparison, according to the World Economic Forum's ranking of women's equality, Hungary is ranked 43 out of 44 European countries. Only Islamic Turkey has a worse situation for women. And then you look surprised that Hungarian women do not give birth. Gentlemen, I'll tell you something. It's not the Hungarian women's intentions. Hungarian women dare not give birth in a world created by Fidesz. Women know that having children is a lifelong responsibility. Having a child is a decision that cannot be solved by family tax incentives, the CSOK or student loans released after the three children. These have taken the right direction, but they are very weak steps. These steps do not guarantee at all that the children they have taken can be raised by the family. In addition, they forget that the second and third children can only be born if there is a first, and this first should be supported. In order to have more than one child, it can be shown that at least one decision of our weight is needed: women should receive equal pay for equal work. Well, that's what you should put in the Fundamental Law. Because it would indeed serve the survival of Hungarians. If women made more money, they would have greater existential security and more children. It's as simple as that. What do we see compared to that? The Fidesz, wherever you can, pushes women to the ground. You give women less pay for the same job. They don't let women in decision-making positions. For four years, they have refused to ratify the Istanbul Convention, which would guarantee the reduction of women's abuse. To sum up, we can say that in Hungary, created by Fidesz, no woman can feel safe financially or physically. And you're surprised that under these circumstances, fewer and fewer women are having children? We have to say that because of you, Fidesz is the reason that fewer children are born. I just saw a very shocking study today, two researchers from the MTA found that even women are badly affected by earning more than their partners. By the way, 70 percent of the portal that published the study said that they didn't mind a woman making more money in a family. Whatever the truth is, it's definitely disappointing. It is disappointing when it comes to women feeling bad when they make more than men, and it is also disappointing if all this has come to light only to make women feel comfortable that they will always earn less than men. Increasing the population of Hungarians is a national issue, not a party policy. This can't be solved by a communication rumble called consultation! Therefore, I propose that all parliamentary parties engage in an immediate consultation on measures to increase the safety of Hungarian women, thereby increasing the willingness to give birth. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But we also need to know that this problem cannot be solved over women's heads without women. That's why I say women make decisions, and we help them. [[The president's ringing again.]] Together, let us make decisions that can restore the safety of women to have children. Thank you very much for the extra time, Mr. President.
u2018-07-02-250	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group also applied for a post- Agenda address:. The State abandoned the families raising autistic children. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-02-251	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It is the year of families this year, yet we see that families who often need the greatest help need to be left behind among those whom the state wants to support. Such are families with children with special educational needs, especially those with autism spectrum disorder. Two weeks ago, I tried to get an answer from the Secretary of State of Rétvári on the fact that it is 6.1.4. TÁMOP competition for early diagnostics, why hasn't it been implemented over the years, why hasn't the money been spent providing early diagnostics to families who need it the most. To date, we have received no reply from the government in writing or in word, but we are still waiting for it. But this is just one part of the many problems that families suffer from whose children live with autism spectrum disorder. For example, in most places, and now I can say a few Hungarian counties, despite receiving the F84, i.e. the autism diagnosis of children from various committees, there is no institution in several Hungarian counties, such as Zala County, where these children can be sent. There were citizens who came to us, who, according to the recommendation, would have had to travel more than 250 kilometers to bring their child to development. In addition, this 250-mile journey is in no way compensated by the government. And yes, when a person is at a care fee of 47,000 or 50,000 forints, it is a considerable burden to pay such travel expenses. I go further, in most places, state institutions or schools, kindergartens, whose founding declaration includes the possibility of receiving children living with autism spectrum disorder, in most places it is only in the founding declaration, which does not mean that there is any qualified person there. This does not mean that any of the very few qualified people can spend hours with these children exactly as the law otherwise states. This problem is very difficult because often the problem is not what is in the law, but the problem is that Hungarian families simply do not have access to it, and it takes a very large network of contacts, endurance and work to get even a parent to know what rights they have in relation to having a child living with autism spectrum disorder, and they do not receive any help in doing so. I also want to say that Hungary is almost the only country in the region where it does not exist, so there are zero state programmes that prepare a parent for how such a special child should be raised. There are zero public programs that would help parents to live with it and what to expect in the future. There is also another problem other than children, that when the reduced schooling age expires, this child will be 15-16 years old, and then those who are in the more severe part of the spectrum will most often have to be sent to a boarding school to develop there. These residential institutions often have 4-5 years of waiting. Moreover, these residential institutions do not receive any source at all that a government that considers itself a Christian Democrat should give. I would also like to say here that although there is a special specialty in medical pedagogical training, who are concerned with autism, these teachers are also on very low pay. To this day, the wage arrangement of teachers has not been complete, and these professionals do not get enough. I would like to say two more things: these are two specific citizens' requests from such families. One is that there are a lot of treatments that are currently not state-supported, such as horse therapy or swimming therapy, which would be very good for these children. There's no state aid for that. If a person receives 47 thousand forints as a care fee to care for such a child all day, then he should be able to pay for a monthly horse therapy of 6,000 forints, a large sum, an amount that the Hungarian budget, which is thousands of billionaires, should have. I go on, there was a citizen who came to us, and I hoped that someone from the government would respond - who raised twins living with autism. [[19.10]] The care fee doesn't show up at any level if it's not for a child, it's for more. It is possible to hold a professional debate that this should not be shown in the care fee, which is again 47 thousand forints in this family, for example, but in other compensatory ways. But to have the same amount of money for a child or two children to take to various developments or other ways, it is quite outrageous and not worthy of a government that considers itself a Christian Democrat. So I have so much to ask here, looking at empty government benches, to think about these families in the year of families, who require most state aid. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-02-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
