u2018-02-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Mr Gábor Vona, on behalf of Jobbik, Mr Orbán is afraid to speak before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2018-02-20-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Walking through the country, I find that the general well-being of people is fear. This is a regrettable, sad consequence of the policy of the ruling parties, but there is a positive news that gives these people hope, and that is that some people are more afraid than they are. And this man is the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán. He is so afraid that he doesn't just dare to stand up to a debate, he doesn't dare to come to his workplace, he doesn't dare to look us in the eye. He was supposed to be here today, yesterday, January, but he doesn't dare to come in, because he doesn't dare to account for, for example, the scandal of how you have installed 2,300 Iraqis, Syrians, Afghans in the last three years with his personal signature, while lying the opposite, spent 22,000 billion forints. They've secretly become a government of introductions. The Prime Minister also dares not look us in the eye and dares to answer questions about the Elios scandal. It happens in Central African dictatorships, as in this case: the Prime Minister's daughter's husband, or son-in-law, was charged with organized crime. They're trying to pin it on Lajos Simicska, trying to pin it on poor John Lazarus, trying to push it on everyone. In fact, this scandal belongs to István Tiborcz and, most likely, to Viktor Orbán. Don't try to explain to me that the Prime Minister didn't know what his son-in-law was doing and what he did. So, there is a reason to fear Viktor Orbán, because on 8 April, with the support of the majority of people who want to change government, Jobbik will replace this government, and this will not only be a change of government for you, but the beginning of accountability. The dolce debate in which you are having such a good time now, will end after 8 April, and Jobbik is ready for this task, ready to be accounted for, because unlike the left, we could not be broken, beaten, intimidated or bought. You are clearly left with only the possibility of migration and holding on to George Soros for the remaining few weeks, and have no other subject, since you have nothing to show for it. The fact is that Jobbik will also protect Hungary after 8 April, and better than you. Because the fact that you protect the country and beat your breasts on this is the basis. Protecting one's own country doesn't give us any reason to be proud, but we're going to protect the country even more than you do. There won't be any fancy, there won't be any propaganda, there won't be any hysterical, there won't be any money waste, there won't be any bond purchases, and there won't be any secret resettlements. Jobbik will simply protect Hungary nicely and quietly. You will go, the fence will remain, and Jobbik will come, and we will set up border guards next to the fence, and we will, of course, resist any EU quota experiment with the support of Hungarian society. But we will not only protect Hungary after 8 April 2018, because it does not matter how we live within the fence. You have created a stifling, fear-filled country, and we together with the people will build a calm, free, successful and happy country. Education is the key to this construction; it is the area that you have misplaced, and in fact, the area in which you have fallen. How symbolic is it that teachers don't even protest on the street anymore, or parents, but children! And instead of being your prime minister or your competent minister, Zoltán Balog. Superman, who takes as much space in one person as six ministers, instead of sitting down with these young people, drinking tea, talking to them, and not even agreeing with them, just listening to them, instead, you're ordering search houses, and you're even calling these kids Soros agents. How pathetic! Unlike you, education policy is a key issue, Mr XXI. We will implement a modern education policy of the century, where we will show it to our children and give them what we will give them in the future, the 21st century. In the first century they will need to be successful both as individuals and as communities. English language learning, knowledge of infocommunication technologies, a healthy lifestyle, a conscious healthy lifestyle, economic and financial knowledge, so that they can adapt to the world, individual success, individual self-motivation, the ability to learn lifelong or community cooperation, the ability to cooperate are the things that our children will need to be successful and happy as individuals and communities, and that is what you have not given in the last eight years. You have also destroyed education policy. In vain, you have written on your pulpit that Hungary is the first for you. Do you know what your first time was? Their own pockets, stealing! That is why you will fail on 8 April, and that is why you will watch from opposition benches or perhaps prison cells, as Jobbik will create a calm, successful, happy and free country that you have failed to achieve. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-2	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-02-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, When you started your movement, you were defined as a conservative national party. This, of course, had all kinds of driving, but the point was that they were defined as national parties. Then something happened, and there was a process in Jobbik that if we had to write it down with an expression, we would say it was the process of selling out the great soul. Gábor Vona, under your leadership, Jobbik systematically sold the party's soul in large doses. [[Gábor Vona: Can you do it by heart? Martin Gyöngyösi: You look very pale!]] We remember the milestones of this. During this cycle, land distribution was attacked while being demanded earlier. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Land division!]] They also had the courage to compare Hungarians across the border to Indians who could be bought with glass beads by Gyurcsány depth. They would now join forces with the LMP, while they were previously referred to as the successor party of SZDSZ. They even ruled out the alliance in writing. The whole soul sale process on immigration is the most spectacular. It's about to start with the fact that you made the introduction. I hear you've sued us in this case, so here, in front of the House, I recall what you said at the RTL Club, which was previously proposed for termination. He said on the quota that as long as it's about, say, a few thousand people, I'd say it's okay to think about it. It wasn't just a stray speech, it was done accordingly. They drilled the quota vote and then did not vote for the non-quota constitutional amendment. [[Ander Balázs: Fundamental Law!]] For Jobbik, this was the point where there was no return, but they didn't want to return. They also attacked the border lock. You said that the fence was a huge failure, and that it was unfit to defend the country, Ferenc Gyurcsány could have said so. Many Hungarians had been scratching their heads for a long time, wondering why Jobbik was doing this, but he didn't find much of an explanation; until a shocking recording was made public: the Istanbul speech. On this, Gábor Vona unraveled in the full glory of his worldview. He said no less than that Islam is mankind's last hope. He claimed no less than that Attila's grandchildren fear no one but Allah. [[Gábor Vona: Jesus Christ!]] [[8.10]] He was celebrating with people from the Second World War. They were involved in the assassination of John Paul. [[Gábor Vona: Don't take the name of God in vain. You know which orders!]] He says no less than that he very much hopes that Hungary will leave the EU as soon as possible and will join forces with its real brothers and sisters. I dare quietly ask you who you think are the real brothers of the Hungarians, who are the protectors of Christianity. [[Dóra Dúró: You're not asking! You answer!]] It's really hard to find words for that. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] We are in the middle of the migration crisis, which defines everything that is important in life; the economy, our culture, the lives of families, our security, the future of our entire country. And it turns out that in this situation, Gábor Vona has nothing to do with the values on which we can build. To you, Europe's Christian values mean nothing. And it's not just about daily religious practice, it's about the bonds that connect us unspokenly. If Jobbik's voters had to write white chalk on the board about how they're living this whole thing, many would probably write that it's a disappointment with all capitals. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is dramatic!]] They hardly gave me permission to sell the big soul sale. I'm sure it's pretty easy to lose in the kitty-turban triangle of a guard vest. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] We send a message to all Hungarians, too: there is a force in Hungary for which Hungary remains the first, and the national interest is the first [[Márton Gyöngyösi: One minute of propaganda left!]] And this is the Fidesz-KDNP association. Mr President, Several years ago, you inaugurated a monument in honor of Gergely Pongráz, hero of '56. It says that I did everything for my country. Those are timeless words. Feel free to ask yourself, have you done everything you can for your country? [[Lajos Kepli: You say that? Oh, my God.]] I can tell you that the voters already know the answer, and they will tell you on April 8th. Thank you very much for your comment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's still 20 seconds left to talk about Tiborcz. Márius Révész: Dora, did it hurt? Dóra Dúró: It was a lie! Márius Révész: Always is! That's who you are! Lajos Kepli intervenes. Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-02-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. After the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Defence also declared war on the Hungarian farmers. You have the floor, Congressman Haughty.
u2018-02-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have just heard that Hungary is the first, but I see, Mr State Secretary, in those farmers who have come up today to listen to the Secretary of State's reply in their case, they are not in this Hungary. I say this because you referred to the fields here, in a rather interesting way, that the villainy that happened in Hungary with the sale of land and renting of land is unprecedented in the history of the past period. It is unprecedented, because everyone has benefited, all friends with fidesz, all friends close to Fidesz have benefited, only farmers who have used Hortobágy or Hajdú-Bihar pastures for decades. We know that the Minister of Agriculture doesn't care where Hortobágy is fed, obviously I understand, because he doesn't know how to do this, but it's also acceptable to him that the artificial nail and hairdresser from London maintain 100 to 100 hectares of pasture and then take on EU support, which is quite amazing. In this area, there has been a regular mafia about how these subsidies are being stolen. But what I am saying is that it is an unprecedented case that the defence wants to destroy a four-generation animal husbandry activity by simply refusing to talk to farmers who have used a military area continuously, namely 1,500 hectares, I say this by using it, even when the Soviet army temporarily residing in Hungary used it. They didn't have a problem with the Hungarian farmers either, Mr. Secretary, just you. I'm saying this because I started a correspondence in this case with the Minister a year ago. The last letter I received is important, February 13th, and it says that I should be patient until the complete development of land use, because then you will be able to answer that. The truth is, we are out of patience, Mr. Secretary of State, because until March 20, farmers should be notified of how many animals, how and under what conditions they should be kept, and this should be described on 13 February in order to have patience, in relation to grazing... I understand that this is the Ministry of Defence and does not know agriculture, but it might have been possible to ask someone about it. But this is not the cynical thing, but the fact that the farmers received a letter from Colonel József Cseppentő from the Ministry on 14 January at their own request that the Hungarian Defence Office would not be able to rent the land for them. Which one is it, then, Mr. Secretary? What's true now? Is it what the colonel wrote to the farmers that after fifty years of four-generation grazing, they have to get out of pasture, or is it true what the Minister wrote to me that they're still investigating? Otherwise, there's no time to examine it. And the other thing is, it turns out why they're trying to clean them up. We have a fellow Member named László Tasó who has looked out for this area. He looked out for you, and we'll hear you say that, so he took it out for 150 forints/hectare rent as a hunting ground. I understand, Mr. Secretary, that a 1500-acre pasture will be an excellent hunting ground in two years, when it will be a two-metre weed and a bush, because it will keep the game much better, but have you not thought about what will happen to the ten-some families who will be ruined, what will happen to the thousands of sheep sent to a slaughterhouse so that a fellow Member can live for his hobby? Besides, it's weird that they're trying to let guns into defense territory. Maybe they'll shoot at each other, or what's that gonna be, Mr. Secretary? Once again, fifty years ago, Soviet troops could have used this pasture here and there. Why do you want to take it from them? Why can't they make a fair deal? Why are they sending them here and there? In fact, they are now threatened by Mr. Taso's friends, that if they don't disappear, their big man friend will take care of everyone. I hope you have an answer, Mr. Secretary, that you can go home with at ease, and that is why they woke up very early today, which is not strange, obviously, but rather strange in the capital, so that they can at least get a sensible answer. But it doesn't make sense that they won't get that pasture. 'Cause I can't imagine any other use in these areas than grazing livestock. What are you going to do with the pastures, Mr. Secretary? What are you gonna do about it so it doesn't have a six-foot weed in it? Why did this happen all this time? What happened in the army, what are those very important tasks that you can't let in, say, those few thousand sheep at three o'clock in the morning and three o'clock in the afternoon on that pasture? I would very much ask you to give a firm answer, because the farmers here would like a firm answer. And by the way, the problem with that is that they've taken over the cynical and other styles of the Minister of Agriculture, that wasn't your style, Mr. Secretary of State. They've always been able to make a deal, why can't they now? Is it true that only friends matter? Then Hungary is not the first, but friends are the first. Put this billboard on your sign. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-02-20-6	Thank you, Congressman. Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2018-02-20-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I respectfully welcome the host farmers, and thank you very much, Mr President, for raising this serious issue here in plenary after the written questions. There is also an ongoing written question from the Member, on which we will, of course, give the answer within an appropriate time limit. Yes, you are right, too, Mr. Secretary of State, that the Hungarian government, Hungary is the first, and the Hungarian people are the most important. [[Dr. István Apáti: Money comes first!]] ; Hungarian families, Hungarian children and, of course, Hungarian farmers have always shaped our policy along these lines. But let's be clear about a few things in this case, without slipping or inaccuracies. The area in question is the area of the Debrecen Corps's shooting and training grounds, which is the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. It is subject to the exercise of ownership rights, so it is a range and a training ground we are talking about. In view of the requirements of the forest law, this has been Kaszo Zrt. since 2009. It is in the management of forestry and, accordingly, the contract for the exploitation of this can only be concluded with Kaszo Zrt. [[8.20]] On the part of the defence wallet, since this is primarily a shooting and training space, and used by soldiers of the Debrecen Corps as a shooting range and as a training ground, the recovery investigation is ongoing. They work together with the manager and the formations on the construction which is equal for all parties. However, it must be made clear, Mr President, that there are three very important interests to be covered here, and none of these very important interests can be harmed. The first interest is in the interests of soldiers, as this is a field of shooting and training, and it must be ensured that soldiers can do their service, work in terms of training and practice here. The other interest is in the interests of farmers. We understand that farmers here see a suitable pasture in a large area, while soldiers see a suitable field of shooting and training. [[Zoltán Pride: The two are not mutually exclusive!]] And there is also a third interest, that this area is a Natura 2000 nature conservation area [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's why it needs grazing.]] , and these criteria must also be met. That's exactly why it needs to be grazed, that's right. You are right, Congressman, this is what the Ministry is working on, because the interests of farmers must be taken into account, so grazing in the field should be allowed to ensure that farmers and their animals are safe, that soldiers can carry out their shooting and other training tasks safely and that they are in everyone's best interests. This is what our colleagues are working on in the Ministry, which is why the Minister asked both the Member and the farmers for patience and understanding. We will find a solution to the conditions under which Kaszo Zrt. knows. the conclusion of the exploitation contract in accordance with the relevant legislation. We still need to ask for patience until the terms and conditions of application and exploitation are finalised and communicated. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Can they go to the pasture or not? Because that's the point.]] The Ministry is working to enable soldiers to do both shooting and practical training, and farmers can feed their animals there, because it is in the common interest of all of us. To do so, we ask the Member and the farmers for some patience. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, applied for a speech before the agenda:. What did they trust? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Yesterday there was a very bizarre story here at the end of the meeting, at the end of the immediate questions. I wanted to ask Lajos Kósa, but he didn't come in, and he didn't come in by accident, and neither did the Prime Minister and János Lázár. Instead of Lajos Kósa, the former mayor of Szekszárd had to come in, István Horváth, but he, before his appearance, took himself and ran out of the room and was not here. Nevertheless, I waited for about half an hour, and he came back at the end, but there was no more thanks. I asked him two questions: when and from whom did he first know about the Tiborcz István company and who gave him the phone number of the company's lighting manager, Mancz Ivette. This is a very important question. It is a very important question, because in the Fidesz fraction, he talked about how they would be recouping money before they could pay for the part before the tender was tendered. Before his application was written out by the government, he spoke to Mancz Ivette before us in the Fidesz fraction, how they might help the municipality do nothing. But it seems that they were quite greedy at Tiborcz's company, because they did not help, they did not scrape back any money, at least not in the municipality's pocket how much, we do not know, but we know that the Prime Minister's Office paid off the part of the Tiborcz, helping out the part of Tiborcz. But yesterday the former mayor of Szekszárd, Mr. Secretary of State, did not respond to this either, but began to list in a pre-written paper how many meters of road will be renovated and how much money they plan to waste, probably in a very similar way as in LED lamp investments. The most important question of the next month, the next 50 days, is whether they can really squawk this relentlessly large amount of money, like Tiborcz's lamps. I know I'd love to, so you read it, but we're doing everything we can to stop it. What I would like to say here at the end of this session or at the end of this parliamentary term is that Iván Bächer had a very important sentence that a lot of people should consider. He said he had a good reputation, because shame doesn't last forever. Shame doesn't last forever! That's good news because when you die, you can put it down for our sons, our grandchildren. You can put it down for your sons, your grandchildren. I don't know if you feel any shame, I don't know if, for example, István Horváth feels any shame, I don't know if the Prime Minister feels any shame, what he did, how much opportunity he would have had to reform this country, and he could have been a great statesman, I don't know if he feels any shame. I don't know if John Lazarus feels shame. I'm sure if they weren't afraid of shame, but they're obviously afraid of punishment. And even if they don't have to be afraid of shame, they really have to be afraid of punishment, because they certainly will. I don't know if they're gonna feel any shame, but there's definitely gonna be a punishment. The next few weeks will also be at stake when this punishment will take place. We will do everything we can to make sure that this happens as soon as possible, because it is in Hungary's interest, because the stolen money is missing from somewhere. The 3 billion HUF Tiborcz earned at the LED lamp party, for example, would be enough to raise the wages of daycare workers significantly. 3 billion forints is three thousand times 1 million forints. For 3 billion forints, a Hungarian earner has to work 1500 years, then he can earn as much as Tiborcz made in a year, if he started to work before his home invasion, took on his job for average earnings, say, as a shepherd, and continued to this day. I think you're fighting a freedom fight, fighting for your freedom, to avoid this punishment. This war of freedom will not be easy, even if they have a lot of means to do so. That's why they've changed the electoral rules, and that's why they've done that you're doing propaganda with billions of forints. We're in front of a race where the opposition has to jump over a one-and-a-half-meter railing every meter, and you're on a treadmill that goes forward. There is such unequal competition, yet the opposition will win, because although we do not have money, we do not have billion-dollar propaganda, but we are right. We're gonna beat you!
u2018-02-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Miklós Soltész will respond to what has been said.
u2018-02-20-11	Honourable Congressman, The investments in lighting modernisation that you raised, to tell you the truth, it's kind of weird that you're the one who brought this up, and that's because it wasn't me, it wasn't us, it was you who decided at the time to support the investment. You were a municipal representative in Szekszárd for years, and you voted in the general assembly for the submission of the energy efficiency tender. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: I didn't vote for it!]] And if you would explain this by saying that you were a member of Fidesz at the time, I would remind you that LMP voted in favour of this initiative as well as the MSZP. Why did they vote if they didn't agree? The fact that you are bringing this up now is a clear proof that you and Brussels are working together to strengthen the campaign from your own point of view, and you want to raise Brussels' intention to intervene. By the way, if you want to find out more about this case, you should definitely go to the oligarch with whom you, as it turns out, regularly consult, not only you, but also those with whom you are becoming more and more friendly with Jobbik. During the period under consideration, his company was the main owner. If I add that in a TV show you used to say that you value Simicka, unlike many others, then I have to say that what you're doing is protecting the oligarch. It would be more honest if you played with open cards and admitted to representing business interests. In the democracy issue that you have raised, we will ask you for advice the least. [[8.30]] Honourable Congressman, If it had been up to you, the Hungarians would not have been able to express their views on immigration matters. If it had been up to you, they would have ignored the will and wishes of 2.3 million people. If it were up to you or your party, the Hungarian government's struggle would not be helped by the Hungarians' majority will. And you can smile at it, you can laugh at it, honourable Member, and your best friends, but everyone knows that LMP not only did not support consultations, but they voted in favour of the Brussels quota resolution. Their representative in Brussels openly stated that he saw no other solution, and his party's co-chairman, Mr Bernadett Szél, was clearly a member of a Soros organization. You clearly support immigration, you help it, and with all the other issues that are being brought forward and that have not been resolved so far, you want to destroy it, you want to attack the Hungarian people clearly as a campaign. This will be unsuccessful. Thank you very much for your concern. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to say to Mr Ákos Hadházy that there is no opportunity for a two-minute comment at the time of the speech before the agenda. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Personal attack.]] The next speaker before the agenda is István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, with the title "The Bet of the Election." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, If it were to be summarized in a sentence as to what is at stake in the parliamentary elections on 8 April, then we could say that the stake is whether Hungary will have a national or a pro-immigration government. It should also be added that this choice is also of paramount importance by historical standards. After all, on April 8th, we are not just voting on what the four years left behind were like. We are not even voting on what the eight years left behind were, but on what the hundred years ahead will be like. Otherwise, there is no less at stake than our national, Christian identity, culture, freedom and the form of existence we are currently living in. The history of Hungarians also proves that we Hungarians can only do well if we are free. We cannot live without freedom, we cannot succeed in this world without freedom. For us Fidesz-KDNPs, these two are the most important: we can live as Hungarians and work so that all Hungarians can succeed. The eight years behind us prove the same for us, because in 2010 Hungary, we were not in control of ourselves. Government debt was skyrocketing, and most of the government debt was foreign owned. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Now it's Lawrence's.]] Our strategic sectors and strategic companies were owned abroad. We were dictated by others. Then we said that Fidesz-KDNP said that we wanted to go our own way, we did not ask for the good advice of the IMF and Brussels. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] We fought and regained our freedom. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] All Hungarians can be proud, you can be proud of our reclaimed freedom...
u2018-02-20-14	Just a moment, please. Congressman Jobbik. I ask you to be more patient and self-disciplined. Thank you very much. Congressman Abbot, I ask you once again to stop.
u2018-02-20-15	...that all Hungarian people, you too can be proud that with the freedom we gained back in 2010, we were well stewardessed. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] After all, there are 750,000 more people working than in 2010, and our economic growth has been double the average growth in the European Union for years, public debt is falling and, to a large extent, it is not foreign, but domestic. Meanwhile, thanks to the family tax relief, 255 thousand families do not pay personal income tax at all. Since 2016, Hungarian families have applied for a family home-building discount of HUF 184 billion, resulting in a new home of 66 thousand families. The formula, the formula of the history of the past 20 years, is therefore simple. If others tell us what to do and how to live, it will be bad for us. The Hungarian people lose their jobs, we lose our companies, our public debt increases, and others profit from us. On the other hand, if we are our own masters, Hungary will grow stronger, and Hungarian people will be able to grow. So on 8 April, we have to fight again for the freedom that we already have. Because the thing is, there are a lot of people who want to tell us again who and how to live. György Soros and his allies in Brussels want us to adopt and open our borders to people of different cultures. According to George Soros, migration is good for Hungary and good for Europe. Mixing cultures and transcending national identity is, in their view, useful and beneficial. Of course, because it makes it easier to turn everyone into a Soros type of person. However, this is against the point of common sense, the experience of the integration policy of the last 30 years in Western Europe, but in particular, the repeated will of the Hungarian people. We want us to continue to carver and celebrate Easter a hundred years from now, to have a Lent and not a Ramadan; to have a wife in a family and no more; and not to have Allah as the last hope in Europe, as Gábor Vona wants, but to have Christian values. Europe will be as we like it, and Hungary will be Hungarian as long as there is a church in the middle of villages and cities, not a mosque. Even though the great coalition of the idea of open society, composed by George Soros and his organisations, the fence-breaking opposition and the Brussels bureaucrats, does not come together, we will not allow it. We protect the safety of Hungarian people, because Hungary is our first priority. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Miklós Soltész will respond to what has been said.
u2018-02-20-17	Honourable Congressman, The saddest part of his speech and comment was that the opposition, headed by Jobbik, Gábor Vona and his fellow parties, had fun with Ákos Hadházy, LMP representative. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] While you have listed the values that are important to the Hungarian people, which are very important to each individual's everyday life and are important in every way for the future. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Talk to people a little bit!]] It's quite disappointing that the opposition knows so much, which is supposed to come to power and government in their sleep. Nevertheless, the solidarity that Hungary has done in recent years must be very important. Solidarity must serve the truly troubled, truly locally helping and truly staying in place. We are getting more and more feedback from the Middle East, Africa, North America and Europe, too, from sound political organisations that do not mess with other people's problems, do not want to call in illegal masses, but rather want to help them, and so everyone supports and helps the many, many efforts that Hungarian people, the Hungarian government, do in order to provide education, hospital building, hospital equipment, churches and schools. However, we are also in solidarity with the people of Western Europe who are sick of the policy that is being imposed on them by certain governments, whether from Brussels or by George Soros, that they want to sink their country into an immigrant country. And that's what the Hungarians think, too. A very large majority of Hungarians, more than 80 percent, do not want to live in an immigrant country, do not want illegal migration, do not want everything either Brussels or György Soros or his Hungarian henchmen who are now leaving Parliament. [[Several better-looking congressmen are leaving.]] Those who want to determine their lives. In addition, the large majority also know that everything the political opposition would do at the head of the LMP, Jobbik, MSZP, Ferenc Gyurcsány is an irreversible process. A process that would completely change this country for our children and grandchildren would completely change the region in which we live. And unfortunately, the opposition and their leaders, the candidates for Prime Minister, are thinking completely differently against the large majority. As a bankruptcy problem, Gergely Christmas would tear down the fence at the head of the MSZP and support the resettlement. [[8.40]] Bernadett Wind, the candidate for Prime Minister of LMP, was a Soros activist, also supporting the dismantling of the fence and supporting everything he wants. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy steps behind Miklós Soltész, and during the full term of the Secretary of State's reply he holds a sign with a sign that says he is lying. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] There's Congressman Hadházy behind me. [[Dr. Vas Imre: You should have learned during the cycle that you can't do this!]] Along with Ferenc Gyurcsány, the fallen Prime Minister... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-02-20-18	Congressman Hadházy, stop it, please. Congressman Hadházy, stop it! [[Dr. István Apáti: You seem quite determined.]] Thank you very much. [[Noise.]] Congressman, I would like to ask you once again to stop. [[Interviews from Fidesz: We wait! Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Me too! I'm persistent! Dr. István Apáti: There was no order of fire!]] Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-02-20-19	As Mr Hadházy tells himself that he is lying, he belongs to the same company as Ferenc Gyurcsány, the fallen Prime Minister, who has already destroyed the country once, and would do so for the second time. We have finally restored what you have said and listed, a lot of value and a lot of things the Hungarian government has done over the past few years for the benefit of Hungarian people. In eight years, there was a huge change. This is what I would like to destroy, and yet it has also launched outbursts against Christendom. As did Gábor Vona, despite his departure from Parliament now, he made statements in the interest of Islam that clearly meant [[Dr. István Apáti: Look at what your boss has said, that he sees Islam as one of mankind's great spiritual and spiritual creations.]] That they would support illegal immigration. Gábor Vona performed in a place where he celebrated himself as a terrorist organization called Grey Wolves [[Dr. István Apáti: Why are you still at large? What's TEK doing?]] are part of his group [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Don't overdo it!]] who, by the way, were Ali Agca's men, and this company started Saint II. The assassination was also against Pope John Paul. Gábor Vona and Jobbik [[Dr. István Apáti: He was three years old! You're full of shit.]] He's friends with people like that, he wants to bring these people into the country. However, it must be said that they were the opposition with Ákos Hadházy and the joint work of many who did not support the will of 80 percent of the country to defend the country through a referendum. They did not support the constitutional amendment in order to protect the country. [[Dr. István Apáti: Seven times!]] However, they support György Soros's plans, support the occupation of the country, jointly tear down the fence, together, make this country defenceless, i.e. they want to make the country an immigrant country. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable persistent and wonderful Member Hadházy, I wish you many, many success in preparing for the elections. I trust that the truths you have told in recent years, the truths you have tried to convey to the Hungarian people, will all be made public. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. Márton Gyöngyösi: How much longer do we have to listen, Mr President?]] And it turns out that what you're doing is a huge lie, just like you can show it on this note. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy turning to Miklós Soltész: Rascal! Son of a bitch! Miklós Soltész: Go to the Grey Wolfs! Martin Gyöngyösi: Go on. You're learning!]] Dear Parliament, Márius Révész, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a pre-meeting address on bicycle paths and other active tourist developments. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-21	Dear Parliament, With the launch of the election campaign, we agree on fewer and more and more issues, but perhaps I would like to raise a subject in which we can perhaps say that there is consensus as we speak before the last agenda of the session. In the fact that the conditions of active recreation, healthy lifestyles, tourism and nature travel are worth developing, I believe that there is no debate in Hungary. But it must also be said that, while everyone agreed, nothing happened for years after the change of regime. By 2010, our tourist houses, we can say they have fallen, the signs on the hiking roads are worn out, the cycling tourism networks have not been built up.However, since 2010 there has been a significant change of perspective, and we can rightly be proud of our results. Since 2010, forestry and national parks have renovated more than a hundred tourist houses, hunting houses and accommodations, built 38 new lookout points, 31 were renovated. In 2018, 80,000 children will be studying in forest schools. The National Blue Circle has been reborn, the renovation of the small trains has begun. The tourists appreciated the development because the number of registered visitors to forestry and national parks has increased by more than 70 percent since 2010. Of course, we do not stop, our aim is to build services of the same quality as Austria, Switzerland or Slovakia. This year, as we would like to continue, the government provides an additional HUF 5 billion for the development of tourist houses. We are also doing a survey of where new tourist houses should be built in the future. We would like to make the experience even bigger by building ten more via ferrata routes, i.e. ironed routes, on different cliffs in the near future, compared to the previous three routes. I also have to say that rivers would provide an ideal opportunity for water hiking in Hungary, but the conditions are very poor today. In cooperation with the Hungarian Kajak-Kenu Association, we will improve the conditions of two hundred new water-touring stops, and many will be opened this season, this summer. Similar progress is made on bicycle roads. We hope that the bicycle path connecting Budapest with Balaton will be completed by the end of 2019, between Rajka-Budapest and the Danube, the Balaton Circle will be renewed, and the Tisza-kör will be closed between Poroszló and Tiszafüred. This year, many cycling tourist routes will be marked on dams, forestry and agricultural roads, and we hope to double the number of cyclists in Hungary in a short time. In addition to infrastructure development, it is very important to develop an approach, so we revived and expanded the wandering camping, which many of us, many of us, have lifelong experiences about. This year we would like to show 10,000 children and young people the beauty of camping, but we have not only built hiking trails, but also cycling and water-touring routes. It is important that prepared teachers accompany the children, so we organized training together with the University of Physical Education and provide them with a fair remuneration. Thanks to the government's support, one week of camping with accommodation, meals, equipment and programs provided for young people for HUF 21,000. We are also committed to increasing the proportion of cyclists in urban transport, so together with the Hungarian Cycling Club we are rebooting the Bike to work in spring! - Campaign. According to a study in the Netherlands, those who use a bicycle to work are on average one day less absent from their jobs each year. If we could get 100,000 people to ride a bike to work, that would be a hundred thousand extra working days. Another research suggests that cyclists are expected to live two years longer than those who do so by car. If you manage to get an extra 100,000 people to go to work by bicycle, then it is interesting to think that we give 200,000 years to Hungarian society. I must say that in recent years there have been tangible steps in the area of active recreation and cycling. We'd like to go this way. I can safely say that the government is fully committed to improving conditions for hiking, hiking and hiking. To whom this is important, please continue to show us your trust. If these developments are implemented, a more livable, lovable Hungary will be created, where families, older people, children can spend their free time intelligently and beautifully. We would like to go on this path, because Hungary is our first. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Márius Révész. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2018-02-20-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the government is committed to active tourism development, and it is treating them as a priority. This commitment is not a coincidence, because according to statistics, unfortunately, like most of the world, we live unhealthyly, we move little, and I am an example that we are sometimes overweight. In previous years, the government has taken strict measures to reduce smoking, we have introduced daily school physical education and we have doubled the number of certified athletes. The work of the Commissioner for Government has enabled important improvements in this area. For bicycle roads, as you have mentioned, there are uniquely significant resources available. Networking is a key aspect of development. The international EuroVelo network, the Budapest-Balaton bike route, the Balaton bike road, the tour of Lake Tisza, the planned developments with the intention of connecting the tourist regions will increase the popularity of the tourist attractions along the routes. [[8.50]] With the support of the four-season ski slope development, not only in winter, but throughout the year, tourism in the region can be expected to recover. By amending the laws on small trains and by providing significant resources, route and vehicle development, we make this form of travel more attractive for those who want to relax; I would add that this improves the tourist potential and capacity of many small regions. As a former canoe, I have a particularly close desire to develop the Danube and Tisza marinas. As early as this summer, I hope that there will be many places for water hikers to land a small boat, as more than 3 billion forints will be spent by the government for this purpose. The summer boating will enrich water transport with new experiences, first in northern Hungary's waters. Significant steps have also been taken in shaping attitudes. The promotion of an active life form can never be started early enough, so it is welcome to start travelling camps, to promote training, to promote and popularise routes. We trust that as many educational institutions as possible choose this form of camping, allowing students to enjoy life on foot, on water or by bicycle. The five-test programmes will give as many people as possible the opportunity to participate in recreational sports events. The development of cycling routes, the development of ski slopes, the schedule of small railway roads, summer boating, small boating, the significant number of tourist house developments included in the plans represent a wide variety of infrastructure development, which can increase the attractiveness of the given regions, which will improve the health and well-being of society. I call for the active support and assistance of my fellow Members to do so, and, moreover, for their active participation in them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Congressman Ákos Hadházy applied in order of business. I ask you, Congressman, is this about personal involvement? [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Yes, personal involvement.]] I can't give you the floor because I don't think it's justified. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, It follows a consolidated debate on the proposal to stand up for Poland against Brussels' pressure in an exceptional procedure. Presentation submitted by representatives of Zsolt Németh, Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz László Kucsák and representatives of Gergely Gaal and János Latorcai, the Christian Democratic People's Party H/19861. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2018-02-20-25	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to our proposal for a decision on standing up for Poland against Brussels' pressure, it is important to clarify exactly what it is and what it is not about in this proposal. This is primarily a matter of the nature of the case and of the European Union. Firstly, a few words about what our proposal for a resolution is not about. It is not about who is right in the Polish internal political debate in the spotlight. This is not for the Hungarians, nor for Brussels, but for the Poles alone. We are therefore not interfering with Poland's internal affairs. Nor is it about whether the European Union or European integration in itself would become a bad thing because the Commission is expanding beyond its competence under the Treaty of the European Union. That is, when we stand up for Poland, we are not Eurosceptics, and despite all the rumors, we do not want to leave the European Union or weaken the European Union or break it down. Nor is our proposal for a decision on the ground that it is not important for the European Union to ensure compliance with the Member States and to respect its own values. We are enthusiastic supporters, for example, of a citizens' initiative aimed at keeping the European Union's own values in minority policy, and we trust that the one million signatures that are expected to gather by early April will then enjoy the full support of the European Union on the ground of this commitment of values. Furthermore, our presentation is not about taking justice to ourselves alone in the European Union. We are prepared to argue with anyone about what the institutions of the European Union have and what they have no right to do with Poland or any Member State. That is why we are writing down our position now, because we want to argue with the position that does not match ours. And finally, there is no presentation that Hungarian-Polish friendship is in any sense a counterweight to our relationship with the European Union or with any other EU member. Hungarian-Polish friendship is not a counterweight, but, in our conviction, added value in European integration, just as the friendship of all nations with each other does not weaken, but strengthens European integration. However, what this proposal for a decision is about is that we believe that the European Union is not for deciding the internal political debates of the Member States. This is done by the parliamentary system of the Member States. This is Polish internal affairs, Polish competence, it is part of Polish sovereignty, i.e. the sovereignty of the Member States is very much the subject of this current debate on Poland v. European Union. And once the European Union intervenes in Poland's internal affairs at this level, it will set a precedent for further interventions. So what you are doing today against Poland can be done tomorrow against any other Member State. If I wanted to make a point, I'd ask who's going to write the Polish constitution here. Is there still the right to write the Polish Constitution, or is it also welcome to be taken over by the tireless European Commission? We are also proposing that we do not accept the decisions made by twisting the Treaty of the European Union. What matters is what is written in the Treaty and not what Balliberal intellectuals, by political motivation, explain in the Treaty of the European Union. [[9.00]] So we're on a legal basis. If the European Union goes beyond the letter of the Treaty, it will act outside its competence, i.e. in an illegitimate manner. In these cases, I would prefer to initiate infringement proceedings against the Commission, because the European Commission regularly exceeds its own powers, with which Member States and European citizens have otherwise been entrusted within the framework of the Lisbon Treaty. And it is also our presentation that such an increase in the European Union above the Member States, i.e. stealth integration, is expressly rejected. According to the Treaty, the Commission is a guardian of the European Treaties, and the Commission is breaking it by expanding its power and interfering with domestic affairs in which it is not competent. Most importantly, this resolution is about the fact that, until it is set out in a consensus document, exactly what acts violate the values of the European Union, such acts cannot be called into account on behalf of the values of the countries. So it is also our proposal that, if they do this to any Member State, we will take action against it, because we are, in fact, not against something, but for some reason: for the purity, legality, ideals of European integration and, ultimately, for the future of European integration. And in the end, it is also our presentation that when the injustice happens to Poland, it is particularly annoying to us, because what has always been the basis of our friend for a thousand years, and of this friendship? It was to protect Europe. Together, we have also protected Europe from efforts to reach Europe from outside Europe, such as Ottoman conquest. Let me remind you that János Sobieski has come to protect us in the battle of Párka and has helped us to finally get rid of the Turkish occupation. Or communism, against which we started the rebellion together in 1956, was more precisely launched by the Poles, we followed them, and then they supported us in this struggle; but also by efforts organised from Europe against the European values, we also acted against them with the Poles, such as the example of the rise of empires to nations, for example, within the framework of the Holy Alliance, against which we fought our uprisings in the 19th century. For example, in 1848 General Bem fought against the Holy Alliance when he joined the Hungarian Revolution. Or Nazism, for whose Polish victims we have given refuge in mass, and we have the greatest pride that the Hungarians of that time could be protected in the Second World War. So we stand for Poland, but we are fighting together for Europe, for the purity and legality of European integration, as we have so many times in history. This is not a party political issue for us, either in Poland or in Hungary, but in the case of a consistent stand-up to the European idea, even against Europeans. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Please support our initiative, which will also support Poland and the Treaty-like functioning of the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-26	Thank you, committee president Zsolt Németh. Dear Parliament, I ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Hungarian Levente. [[On the sign of Hungarian Levente:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-02-20-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In recent years, there has been a lot of talk about Hungarian-Polish friendship between the walls of the House, partly in the context of how we can have this historic heritage, this truly honest and long-standing historical heritage, in the 21st century. to interpret it in the century, to promote its practical manifestations. I think that this is only extremely important for Hungary because perhaps one hand is too much to count our friends, our permanent allies, who we can count on for better or for worse under all circumstances. Poland is undoubtedly one of these, if anyone else is outside Poland. And when the true friend is in trouble, I think, Mr honourable Member, that the initiative that the Member has presented is far-reaching, timely and welcome, because we are also under attack through Poland, this action is not only about Poland, it is about Hungary, and let us not forget that it is at least so much about Central Europe and the whole of cooperation in Visegrád, because it is difficult to see the broader and deeper political considerations that can be found behind this attack in reorganizing Europe and the reorganising world political relations. Dear House, We consider this attack of the European Commission to be unlawful, because there are very serious questions about the legal basis if it cannot be clearly stated that the procedure itself is completely unlawful from a strictly legal point of view. We certainly find it unfair, because there are several Member States that, legally, according to the letter of the European Treaties, have not complied with certain obligations for a much longer time than Poland's perceived failure to comply with certain obligations. And above all, we disrespect the procedure against Poland, for they disregard the sovereignty of a country, the pride, independence and dignity of a people who, perhaps more often and more than any other people, stood up for European ideals, for European values. Dear House, We can call this attack by the European Commission a manhunt against Poland, we can call it an inquisition procedure, no matter what words we use, the point remains the same: Poland is an unworthy political one, and we do not lose sight of it for a moment: it is a political attack, behind which I would like to stress again it is difficult not to see the broader considerations. On the one hand, if we look at the importance of Central Europe in recent years, both in terms of European values and in terms of economic conditions in Europe, this could show what is behind the frustration of the European institutions and of certain European Member States behind the institutions in Poland. Today, this House, the trade flows of the Visegrád Four with Germany almost double the volume of trade between Germany and France, so we can talk about a historical scale of economic weight growth and reorganization that has not been experienced in Europe for decades, since the rise of the Western European periphery in the 70-80s, has not been an example of such a reorganization, and this reorganization is increasing at an increasing pace, and is becoming more spectacular and more visible in terms of political weight. It is clear that Central Europe's success and the extraordinary perspectives of Central Europe's success, which seem to annoy many, have led many to take action against it. It is at least as important, if not more important, to conclude that the attack on the original and perhaps most important European values is an attack, since which country can be considered as the more authentic depositary of universal and European values such as respect for independence, freedom and human dignity, in which Poland has so many times broken and bled in its history, has sacrificed so much. [[9.10]] It is clear that Poland wants to remain a Polish country, as we Hungarians want to remain Hungarian. This is perhaps the greatest challenge of our time, because the ideology represented by the European Commission and once again the ideology represented by the governments that force the European Commission to order, encourage or simply give it the opportunity to go beyond its powers to this extent, represent a completely different ideology, a completely different vision, a completely different ideal for Europe, the ideal of mixed societies, immigrant societies, which is so far from Central Europe. For our own country, in order to preserve it as it is, we have shed a lot of blood, even at a time when in Western Europe it was known only from the history books. I would like to emphasise once again that what is happening against Poland is an attack on Hungary, an attack on Christian values, the family-centred and sovereignty-based country and self-image, and from this I can ensure, on behalf of the government, Poland and the entire Polish people, that if the process is there, Hungary will support Poland unconditionally and will veto any decision that is directed against Poland. Let us not forget, House, that a similar procedure has been initiated against Hungary not only in political terms, but also in legal terms, because the European Parliament has initiated a procedure against Hungary under Article 7 at the European Commission. So not only is there a danger of Hungary being treated in the same way as Poland, but this is already a reality, although the procedure against us is at a different stage than against the Poles, this is already a reality, and this only makes us more strongly believe that the lines must be closed, and Poland can always count on Hungary in this sense, unconditionally and always. Dear House, We support the proposal for a resolution presented by the Member, and our respectful proposal, our request to the House, is to consider adopting it without change. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-28	Thank you, Secretary of State, Magyar Levente. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2018-02-20-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that, in accordance with our adopted decision, under the rules of the exceptional procedure, yesterday was discussed by the Legislative Committee, H/19861. The Committee submitted a proposal for a Decision No 22 with a vote in favour and a summary report. The amendments contain changes in language-rights. On 15 November 2017, the plenary session of the European Parliament adopted a decision on the situation in Poland to start preparing the procedure under Article 7 of the EU Treaty for the opening of proceedings against the Polish Government. On 20 December 2017, the European Commission announced that it had initiated the procedure which the EP was about to adopt in a decision at the forthcoming plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 has never been used in the history of the European Union, this is the first time that it has been envisaged against a Member State. The Hungarian Parliament finds the announcement of the European Commission unacceptable, given that we believe that this is a political attack on our allies. According to the Hungarian position, with this decision, the Commission is going to exceed its responsibilities as laid down in the EU Statute, and the proposal for a decision calls on the Government to stand up for Poland. We cannot support a proposal that restricts the exercise of Poland's fundamental rights arising from its membership in the EU. I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-30	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to President Zsolt Németh, Member, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-02-20-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a rapporteur, I have already explained the considerations that are in our minds, the goals that we are committed to; I do not wish to repeat them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if someone from the MSZP Group wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Gergely Bárándy is preparing... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy, as he tries to put his microphone on, as soon as I unravel it, immediately!]] After you unravel it. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2018-02-20-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Polish-Hungarian friendship is indeed rooted in the distant past, and I believe it is important for this good relationship to be further strengthened between the two peoples, and this can be shown not only in friendship but also in the representation of common political or economic interests. This is what the V4 initiative and the Alliance should be about. In addition, I must say that I even have a personal attraction to the Poles, since a very respected branch of my family is Polish. Just a hundred years ago, Kálmán Volenszky, one of my great grandfathers, wrote the following sentence as the Archbishop of the county of Ugocsa in 1918: Freedom is the mutual respect for righteous rights. Since 1918, the peoples of Europe have struggled to live in a rule of law; so that the law, which now includes international law and European law, is respected by state power. They have fought a great deal to ensure that the courts to uphold the law remain independent and independent. They have fought a great deal to prevent the executive power from subjugating justice and the courts from defending the rights of citizens, even against the power of state. Dear Parliament, However, this resolution is not about friendship and solidarity between the two peoples, but, unfortunately, I must say that it is about the joint pressure of two autocrat governments, which are inconvenient, trying to justify their public aspirations which are incompatible with democratic principles and the idea of the rule of law. And they use the people of Hungary and Poland as a screen to conceal their own power-technical aspirations. Ladies and gentlemen, Today there are quite a lot of writing, studies and opinions about what XXI looks like. The authoritarian regimes of the century. These are not comparable to XX. To dictatorships of the century, they have a very different nature, very different principles, very different characteristics, very different methods of operation. However, in recent times, taking into account the countries where these have been completed, I note, in particular, Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, that Hungary's new friends and allies are these countries, and given Hungary and unfortunately Poland, they can be well defined what these principles are, what these methods are, what these characteristics are, which are based on which these regimes work. [[9.20]] That means we've been able to explore the 21st century by now. The nature and nature of the century-old autocracies. To mention some principles absolutely without the need for completeness, and then to explain why this is important now: such as the raw majority principle, the winner takes everything. The one who denies the system of brakes and balances knows one argument, the only principle of who won the parliamentary election. Then such is the need to rewrite history, and then such is the redefining of democracy in general by adding a word: revolutionary democracy or illiberal democracy in Hungary. And that includes emphasis on sovereignty. Emphasising sovereignty, let me put it this way, because this could be positive: the expression of the doctrine of absolute sovereignty; an excellent example of this was the statement by the State Secretary. When these states in international forums are criticized or condemned in international legal bodies, and I say once again, scientific works are being created today, so that they have general characteristics of these regimes, let me add that, because of their domestic practice, which we are talking about right now, they are certainly starting to speak of the doctrine of absolute sovereignty. That's what's happening right now. In Hungary, we have talked about this quite a lot here in Parliament, and there was an effort to bring justice to power. This was what the judicial reform was about, thanks to God, to the opposition, to your taste: Brussels bureaucrats, the Venice Commission, the monitoring committee and the European Commission were forced to withdraw about 80 percent. That is why this has not been achieved in Hungary, and if we can consider something of the joint success of international organisations and the Hungarian opposition, then it is that today the justice system in Hungary is still roughly independent. Efforts have not ceased since then, see administrative courts, perhaps more specifically called the attempt to set up Fidesz party courts. The same is happening in Poland now. Reform proposals which threaten the independence of the judiciary are presented and adopted. This is happening there now, and this is what the European Union is responding to. But let's see what else is typical of these regimes. That, and I will say this once again, is now being processed by scientific work to take action to protect each other in the UN and in other international fora so that they can defend their aspirations there. In other words, states that play these autocratic processes within their own country and jointly exert pressure on European and world organisations, international legal forums, so that they cannot otherwise enforce international law, European law, against them. This is what is happening now, and perhaps the most critical example of this is this proposal that we are discussing today. In other words, they are using the Hungarian Parliament to demonstrate strength to the European Union in order to protect the autocratic aspirations in Poland. I would like to say, and perhaps the authors agree that the European Union is not only an economic community, but also a community of values. And values are part of the idea of the rule of law. Moreover, one of the European Union's commitments is to ensure European peace. European peace can be ensured if the states and not the European Union do not abuse their power, put their citizens in a vulnerable position, maintain the system of brakes and balances within their own states, maintain the principles of the rule of law and democratic standards. In Poland today, we are witnessing the opposite, as we are in Hungary, and in this regard, as I say once again, we are beginning to discover what the characteristics of these regimes are, in some respects, I understand why this proposal is here before us. Today, Hungary's authoritarian government joins a united front with the authorial government of Poland, and this is not about the two peoples. Once again, the two peoples are referred to by you as screens, but by the way, the friendship of the two peoples, the sentiment of the two peoples, and I sincerely hope that the future of the two peoples has nothing to do with what is going on here today, and what is going on in Poland today at government level. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian and Polish autocratic aspirations, the questioning of the rule of law, the process of breaking down the brakes and counterweights, or, to be specific, the violation of the independence of the judiciary is primarily judged not by the condemned bureaucrats in Brussels and not by George Soros, but by the national governments of the Member States. For example, Germany, where there has been conservative leadership for over a decade; and the committees of the UN Parliamentary Assembly. Perhaps it should be thought-provoking to both Mr State Secretary and the authors that Brussels was not the first to object to them, Brussels was not against them either in Hungary or in Poland. This was first done by the national governments of the Member States. The governments of nations with which Hungary, I believe, has a friendly relationship. Germany, I understand, is one of the most important partners of Hungary in both political and economic terms. But I could say another state, or I could say overseas state, the United States, where they did the same, both against Hungarian and Polish aspirations. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the argument that Brussels is going beyond its scope, and that this whole circus that is going on here today, that is why this is happening, and that this proposal has been submitted as a counterbalance to this, is simply not in its place. Because if Brussels didn't, then it would otherwise be a democratic part of the world, so it would be united. I know there are other opinions in these states. There are other voices in a very strong minority, but you have to look with a magnifying glass to get an opinion in your media, which is different from what I have just said, and it reflects your position. Unfortunately, we are here today, ladies and gentlemen, to make sure that the studies that have been carried out under Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are: Hungary is an integral part of it; Hungary, Hungary, is an integral part of it. They say we are not there yet, like Russia or Turkey or Azerbaijan, but we are using the same methods and we are on the same path. Unfortunately, Poland is doing the same. And I don't think this is the way of the future. What should be considered and considered is that if Hungary feels responsible for the Polish people and I hope that it is, it will try to persuade the Polish Government to change its attitude, as regards the principles and ideals of the rule of law. This could help the Polish people much more than by standing up for a government effort that is certainly not in the interest of the Polish citizens and the Polish people. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support the proposal, and I will not support it myself, and I would like to emphasise it again, not because I do not respect and value the friendship of Hungary and Poland, I would not hold very much value to the Polish people, and I would not feel sympathy for them; but because I believe that what is happening today in Hungary and Poland is in the interests of the Polish and Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-02-20-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Vice-President János Latorcai. [[9.30]]
u2018-02-20-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The extraordinary friendship between the Hungarians and the Poles, which flourishes unbroken from the Arpad era to today, has always been the idea of a kind of solidarity, of selfless action for each other. This friendship created a series of statesmen, great kings and queens, a multitude of saints and heroes. One of the most significant and brightest chapters of our common history was the 1848-49 Revolution and Freedom Fight, in which several Polish officers and public soldiers took part in the lead with Generals József Bem and Henryk Dembinski, and, if necessary, sacrificed his life for Hungarian freedom. Hungary also made its own sacrifice when Poland was invaded in 1939 by the troops of Germany in Hitler and the Soviet Union in Stalin. After that, more than 100,000 refugees, Polish soldiers and civilians found refuge in our country throughout the war or temporarily. But we cannot forget that the demonstration of 23 October 1956 was organized in the spirit of expressing sympathy and solidarity with the Poles, and that the Poles responded similarly to the Hungarian events: they gave blood to the Hungarian wounded, launched supplies of medicines and food to Budapest, and accepted part of our refugees. This is how we came together at the dawn of the regime change, two freedom-loving people, but repeatedly oppressed throughout history, hoped for a better and freer fresh start. As a result of the strained work, from 1999 we became members of NATO and from 2004 we became members of the EU. At that time, many of us felt that we had arrived where we had always belonged. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the slowly and a half decades since 2004 have taught both nations that freedom and prosperity are not a gift, but a result of well done work and a common struggle. As members of the European Union, we have also learned that we can achieve more easily by bringing together our shared goals and by supporting each other. I am proud to be an active initiative of the Hungarian-Polish Friendship Day in 2007, and I am even more proud that it was adopted unanimously by the Parliament at that time. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] The tightening of Hungarian-Polish relations has brought countless events that have overridden party politics in the last ten years. To highlight only two important moments: the emphasis on the memory of József Antall and Henryk Slawik senior, as well as the declaration and celebration of the year of solidarity rooted in the events of 1956, which also indicate the strength and importance of parliamentary relations. Parliamentary relations have shown up in recent times not only in cooperation between national parliaments, but also in cooperation between the V4s and in the European Parliament. During the attacks on our country in Brussels following the change of government in 2010, the help that our Polish friends have given us has been extremely important, for which we have continued to be grateful and to be honoured. We Hungarians learned in 2010 that our freedom or our recent national sovereignty must also be protected in Europe, in the European Union. Today, when Poland is being attacked with malice and undeservation, we know precisely that it is not just a matter of controversial laws, but of much deeper, much more complex issues. The countries facing the centralization and federal aspirations of Brussels bureaucracy, which imagine the future of the community as a Europe of nations and not European united states, are a shard in the eyes of some European politicians and leading bureaucrats. In November 2017, an unprecedented procedure was launched against the Polish Government: the European Commission initiated proceedings against the Polish Government in accordance with Article 7 of the Union's quasi-constitutional Constitution for violation of EU fundamental rights. The Fidesz-KDNP Party Association considers it unacceptable to initiate proceedings under Article 7 of the EU Treaty, since the European Union should not undermine the primacy of the national constitution in the whole legal order in the areas covered by the sovereignty of that country. The fact that Poland is not on the ground of democratic law is simply not true. This procedure therefore creates a dangerous precedent, as the Commission's decision goes beyond that of the guardian of the contracts. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] the tasks laid down in the Union Statute. The adoption of this practice raises not only serious problems of legitimacy, but also another step towards the creation of the federalist dream, the united states of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, As I recall in the introduction to my speech, the loyalty and solidarity of the Poles has always been a stable support during the stormy decades of our history for a thousand years. , Polonia semper fidelis, Poland is always faithful to the tomb of József Antall Sr. in the cemetery of Farkasrét. Let us bear this in mind, not only in our hearts, but also in our hearts, and show that Hungary is also faithful! KDNP wholeheartedly supports Poland and supports the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-36	Thank you, Vice President Latorcai. I give the floor to Congressman Gaal Gergely.
u2018-02-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, As has already been said several times today, on 20 December last year, the European Commission launched the procedure under Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union against Poland, which has not yet been the case in the history of the European Union for any Member State by the European Commission. The final consequence of this process may be the impairment of Poland's guaranteed rights under the Treaty, the limitation of the exercise of its rights arising from its membership in the European Union. Those who initiated the procedure claim that they consider Poland to be at a serious risk of breach of the rule of law. However, the European Commission has once again applied double standards in this case: legal solutions that are now being challenged by Poles exist in other EU countries, but are not being prosecuted. European values are therefore in fact violated not by Poland, but by those in favour of the opening of such a procedure. It is obvious that this is a political attack hidden behind a legal cover, and as this is not unusual in such cases, it has its underlying content. Poland has repeatedly indicated that it does not intend to accept illegal migrants during the period prior to the initiation of the procedure. The issue behind the issue is, therefore, the most important issue of European policy today: migration, which is increasingly demographic, which can completely transform the face of our continent. The supporters of this in Brussels are trying to pressure those who, as our country and Poland, oppose immigration. By joining the European Union, however, we chose partners and not supervisors. We love our country and the Europe we have always belonged to, and Christianity is the most important element of its culture. We Poles and Hungarians must stand shoulder to shoulder to shoulder to defend the Christian civilization in Europe, as it is appropriate for tried friends and comrades. True friendship is a very serious value, which exists not only among humans but also among nations. In the words of Sándor Márai:. Only the friend's affection is selfless, there is no interest in it, nor the game of the senses. Friendship is service, strong and serious service, the greatest human trial and role. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[9.40]] I would add that true friendship is not looking for pathetic excuses when it is necessary to help, as we have just heard from our fellow opposition Member. Ladies and gentlemen, The friendship between the Polish and Hungarian peoples was not only concluded on the ground, because it holds together our common Christian faith, which has protected our Hungarian and Polish homeland throughout history. Since the birth of our great ruler in Krakow, King Szent László, who was Polish on his mother's side and the offspring of Hungarian royal dynasty on his father's side, countless family stories enrich and make our shared past and our future alive. The understanding of each other from the outside may be an incomprehensible bond, we speak a different language, yet we understand each other's speech, because we share our values. This is also reflected in events such as the Cestochowa pilgrimage in Poland. The Jasna Góra monastery is the most sacred pilgrimage place in the world, which more and more Hungarians visit each year to pray together in a family and friendly circle. This connection is also proclaimed by the ceiling of the Polish church in Kőbánya, founded by the Polish people here. And would it be a coincidence that Hungary and Poland were offered to the protection of the Virgin Mary by our ancestors? Dear House, Father Bem's soldier Petőfi writes about this friendship in his poem The Transylvanian Army: "Two nations are united within us, / And what two nations! Polish and Hungarian! / Is there fate more powerful than these two nations, if they want one purpose? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm We Hungarians and Poles have stood by each other many times in our history, which has been intertwined for a thousand years, and that is still our duty today. Now our Polish friends have been attacked, so it's our turn to stand up for them. Poland is under political attack and we must provide political assistance. This is why we need to call on the government to stand firm for Poland at all forums in the resolution proposal that we are looking forward to. On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I confirm what Vice-President János Latorcai said: we ask our fellow Members to support the resolution proposal. And even though we have quoted it several times in the walls of this House, I think it is also right here:. Polak, Węgier, dwa bratanki / I do szabli, i do slanki / Oba zuchy, oba żwawi / Niech im Pan Bog błogosławi. The two friends of Poland-Hungarian / Together they fight and drink their wine / Vitéz and their brave both / Bless them both. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Gaal Gergely. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-02-20-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a great and sincere believer of Polish-Hungarian friendship, I read the Parliamentary resolution proposal with great interest, and I listened with greater interest to the historic overview of the pathos, which my fellow Members and my fellow Members from KDNP and their fidesz colleagues did from St. Kinga, János Sobieski, to Father Bem. We were talking about the pálos order, 1956, a lot of things, but as my fellow Member Zsolt Németh pointed out, it is not just about what is in this proposal for a decision that we should not be talking about, but about what is not in this proposal for a decision. Now, there is much to read from this proposal for a decision, but it is not the case in which Poland, the specific case on which the European Union's proceedings against Poland, were actually condemned, can be found out very little from this document. It gives us a historical overview, we can read many pathos turns from it, but with the specific case itself, in relation to the specific procedure, very, very few things emerge from this Parliamentary resolution proposal. I myself believe that Polish-Hungarian friendship, the historic alliance of the two countries, is a strong bond on which we need to build, Hungary must very much appreciate the fact that it has relations over centuries and even thousands of years in Europe on which we can build, and these are very solid foundations for economic, cultural and, where appropriate, political cooperation. I myself am a very big believer in showing it as a small country, even in cooperation with allies and regional allies in Poland, in our own interests, in international institutions such as the European Union. This can be the form of cooperation between the Visegrád Four or any other Central-Eastern European cooperation. But the reason why this proposal has been put here is what we are talking about here, and in relation to which the European Union has condemned Poland, it is not in this document, it is not explained in detail, it is not apparent from this Parliamentary resolution proposal. However, the reform of the judiciary was first criticised not by the European Union, not by the Brussels bureaucrats, but by the Polish Constitutional Court itself in the first instance, and by the current government within Poland, they were very, very strong critics. I believe that you are taking advantage of this opportunity, in addition, during the campaign period, the timing of this proposal is also very talkative, this procedure to justify your own policy, the policy that has meant democracy, the rule of law and the abolition of the multi-party system over the last eight years. This is a dangerous policy, and I am very careful to ensure that this is taken into the international arena in this policy and, where appropriate, in an alliance with other countries, slurring each other's shoulders and ensuring each other's support for each other, because in each country, voters will make their own decisions. It is completely unnecessary to direct such questions to the level of diplomacy when, on 8 April in Hungary, in Poland, a little later, voters themselves will have an opinion on what they think about the four- or eight-year-old activities of that government. People aren't basically looking for conflict, they don't like conflict-seeking politics. Of course, they like a country with a strong government to protect national interests where appropriate, but this is not the case here, but a self-serving conflict seeking, which then serves the purpose of mobilizing the camp in internal politics. It is quite funny when you are pleased with the role of the defender of sovereignty and independence, and here you are giving a presentation in Parliament on how you want to prevent the centralising aspirations of the European Union, how you are trying to prevent the emergence of a united Europe, the united states of Europe. I am very pleased that this role has been found, and the protection of national sovereignty and independence has at least been included in your toolbox at a rhetorical level, but it may have been necessary to reflect on the nature of national sovereignty and on the nature of independence, when you have been constantly in government and opposition over the past 27 years, with the Hungarian Socialist Party, with other formations of the political elite, SZDSZ, representing an exclusive, unilateral, biased Euro-Italianism at a time when the European Union accession negotiations have been conducted, or when, as members, the Lisbon Treaty has been debated on the table of the nation states, you have been unscrupulous and unread to contribute to this direction of the European Union. It was submitted on Friday, and you voted on Monday, together with the socialists, along with the Gyurcsány Kortal at that time. And now they wonder that there is a kind of concentration of power in the European Union. Yes, it has, but I would still like to remind you that Brussels and the European Union are a place where, when you come prepared, you arrive with allies, where appropriate, there is a way and opportunity to discuss, discuss and promote your own aspects in a cultural way. [[9.50]] But that's not what you want. Your internal political goals, your internal political interest, are to create a conflict, and to welcome you here in the role of the defenders of independence and sovereignty, because that is what is useful to you internally, and that is the only thing you can mobilize with. There is absolutely no need to mix migration and other issues here, because that is not what this is about. This issue is about measures to eliminate the rule of law, democracy and the multi-party system. And you're acting like a pouty little kid who sees interference with his independence in every parenting intent. You know very well that the procedure that has started against Poland on the part of the European Union, or which has been engulfed towards Hungary, is a very complex, very long, very complex and very long process, with a chance of converging to zero in terms of its outcome, especially now that Mr State Secretary has assured you that the Hungarian Government will raise a veto in all such cases, and, as you know, in the Council of Ministers and in the European Council, with completely unanimous decisions, there is no chance that a country will be seriously sanctioned or a country excluded from the European Union. It is in your interest now to paint these images on the wall, but you know exactly that this is a wake-up call and are trying to draw attention to the need to change policy, to change the direction in which the Polish government and the government you support are going. I would like to emphasise once again that this is not about Polish-Hungarian friendship. I believe that Polish-Hungarian friendship not only has a long history, but it has a solid foundation and a great future ahead of it. In the future, we need to raise our voices on real issues in cooperation with the Poles, representing them in international organisations, in the European Union's forums, or on migration issues. But you do not want to explain this problem to our Western partners, or, where appropriate, our allies, who may not understand from their own foundations why in Central and Eastern Europe we have a different attitude to migration or multiculturalism than a great power in Western Europe, which has been a colonial country for a long time as an expansionary country. I would also like to advise you and our Polish friends to exercise the opportunity given at the forums of the European Union, where, if there are historical heritage that makes it necessary to make difficult decisions where appropriate, certain systems within the country must be transformed, where appropriate radically transformed, it can be explained and represented. But they're trying to do this in a debate, not by force, not by voluntarism, as your government has done in the last eight years. I can only say on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement that we have read this proposal, we have considered it, but we cannot support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has not signalled or passed away. There's no independent congressman in the room. Dear Parliament, Two-minute speeches are possible, but no one has come forward. Another pre-notified speaker was Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Member Fidesz. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Our friendship with Poland is a political reality that needs no justification, and one of the fundamental elements of the ideas of Hungarian foreign policy. The 90th anniversary of Prime Minister Pál Teleki He spoke these words in his speech in the House of Representatives on 22 February 1939. I could not be more succinct when we are discussing the parliamentary resolution proposal before us, because there are few countries in Europe whose history and fate would be as close to Hungary as Poland's. We have heard the millennia of friendship, a real community of fate for freedom, democracy, a long series of struggles for independence, as my colleague Zsolt Németh mentioned in his expoze. My fellow Members have already made known the proposal that we are discussing in front of this House, the main objective of which, in addition to solidarity with the Polish people, is to combat double standards, which is unfortunately seen in the European institutions. The submission of the proposal for a decision, given the situation in Poland, therefore, does not, in my opinion, require any justification. I believe that we are fulfilling our basic duty on this day here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, As Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to point out very briefly or briefly what this is all about when the European Union launches different procedures for Poland. It is worth recalling the ominous EU values under Article 2 of the EU Treaty: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. These fundamental values are also common core values of the Fundamental Law, which no one in their original, undistorted form doubts in Europe or in Hungary. I am convinced that the procedure under Article 7 has been carried out more for political reasons in the European Union, which is unacceptable to us and to the Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last decades, we have seen how international and constitutional rights can be interpreted in such a way that those rights become contrary to the original meaning of those rights. And we know very well the methods by which unsuitable political goals can first be achieved and then become legitimate, and eventually they will end up in non-binding documents, so that they can become a reference in shaping the provisions of international law or constitutions. This was the way to ensure that human rights, constitutionality, human rights and other noble, sublime concepts were used to fill the conceptual framework of human rights or democracy with unimaginable content. In contrast to Poland, these little-known, little-specific requirements are supported by the accusers, who can easily be judges, as already pointed out by Prime Minister in 2013. I believe that we must stand by our Polish friends in such a situation, because the most fundamental sense of justice, rooted in their human nature, dictates that we will be a party to those who are forced to face such unworthy accusations. Dear Parliament, At the end of the last week, I attended the 20th meeting of the Europe of the Carpathians conference in Przemyśl, Poland. This is an important regional initiative, Marek Kuchciński, President of the Lower House of the Polish Parliament, which initiated seven years ago, linking the countries of the Carpathians, in addition to the Visegrad Four, Romania, Serbia and Ukraine to strengthen the cooperation of this vast region at economic, cultural and political level. [[10.00]] The Europe of the Carpathians strengthens the cooperation of this vast region at economic, cultural and political level, and it is precisely for my narrower Patria, Abaúj-Zemplén, I believe it is a way of developing. For example, the city of Sárospatak can complement its former traditional twinning system within this framework. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most spectacular achievements of this regional cooperation is the Via Carpathia motorway plan, which stretches from the Baltic Sea to the North to the Black Sea, and is built in connection with this in my narrowest Patria, in Abaúj, the Kassa-Miskolc M30 motorway, the first section of which was handed over between Tornyosnémet and the border. So these are not only about lofty principles, but also about concrete economic cooperation, which, thankfully to God, can be seen in Polish and Hungarian relations. It is therefore also a matter of protecting this. The above-mentioned Conference of przemyśli, which is particularly important for our region, our cooperation between our cities, has not been able to overlook the double standard with which Poland is currently being measured. The Carpathian Europe conference and what was said there confirmed that we cannot remain inactive. After all, we are also talking about important issues when we look at the procedure against Poland. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the decision that we are about to adopt now seems appropriate to our Polish friends. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, when we are discussing this motion, we must also bear in mind that not only the Hungarian-Polish cooperation, but also the cooperation in Visegrád, is in its prime, and especially on the most pressing EU issues today, such as the migration crisis, the Brexit or the future or future budget of the EU. So the Visegrád Four share a common position on various EU issues that we can or can resist centralising efforts in Brussels. The Visegrád Four, including Poland and Hungary, are therefore characterised by strong national advocacy. Well, the initiation of a sanctioning procedure against Poland is about to break this Central European unity. Well, that's why we have to speak in the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that Warsaw and Brussels can agree on the open issues that we have been promised by the Polish Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission. But it is not the procedure under Article 7, but the dialogue, the willingness to compromise. It must be demanded not only from Poland, but also from the European Commission. Then I recall the words of Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, the great figure of left-wing forces, which most forcefully force the procedure under Article 7, who would rather negotiate a hundred hours than fight for one minute. I think that the European Left may not like to hear these words because Schmidt also once said that, in the course of the difficulties, the character appears. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are still living in a time when, in the fight against those who apply double standards, it is clear where people stand and who stick to values. At this time, Parliament is not only an opportunity, regardless of whether we are facing elections, but also an obligation to express solidarity with the Polish people in this way. I believe that the threat to sanctions can only increase anti-EU opposition in Poland, which is in no one's interest. We need friendly, symbolic gestures that are worthy of our thousand-year-old community. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support Zsolt Németh's presentation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-42	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Soltesz, Secretary of State, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-02-20-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Yesterday seemed sad that we might not be able to discuss this proposal, since neither Jobbik, the MSZP, the LMP or the independent Members supported the possibility of derogations from house rules. If we do not have the opportunity to discuss this proposal today under an exceptional procedure, we cannot now stand up for Poland with a proposal for a decision. I have to say that there is a coalition that is now growing stronger and stronger in many other ways, from Jobbik, Ferenc Gyurcsány, LMP and MSZP. And if Márton Gyöngyösi cuts the faces and he doesn't like these few sentences, I'll refer him back to his speech. What you said was an excuse, whining and cowardice. The only thing that matters is what you said, Congressman, and what Jobbik stands for: you do not want to stand for Poland. They do not want to stand up for Christian values. They do not want to stand up to the attack that was launched against Poland, which is clearly not only against the Polish government, but against the entire Polish nation, the entire Polish people, the Brussels community, which does not represent many, but still believes that they can dictate. You are in this country, a country with which our historical roots are very close... however sarcastically you have said that the Christian Democrats have spoken to Patros about the past period, it is also necessary. And we also need to talk about the future, and this stand means the future. You better men are cowards to stand up for the Poles, for the Polish government. You have clearly voted for the Brussels people with this statement that you will not support this proposal for a resolution. However, your rating, your behavior is clear. It is no coincidence, by the way, that I will repeat it for their party president and many times, even in the future, he will meet with the Grey Wolves terrorist organization, a company whose framework, terrorist organization, came from the assassin Ali Agca, who committed the assassination of the Pope of Polish descent. You stand for the Poles, not for Polish Christianity, but for Islam. This is your policy over the last few years and months. The real brother of Jobbik is Islam, not the Poles, not Christianity. Gergely Bárándy spoke to him on behalf of the MSZP. It was interesting and justified what he said that, yes, we did a lot in the past for Poland's sake. We need this. What is important is what you have told us about your personal experiences or your family's personal past. Yes, but if you're taking this seriously, take it seriously, too, if you don't brag about the past, but you're suggesting that you're a member of what party. A member of a party that has held communism up for decades, which has oppressed people in Poland, Hungary and many countries for decades, has destroyed countries and has restricted people in their freedom. And now you're accusing the Polish government, the Hungarian government, of authoritarian conduct? ! [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's right!]] Do you dare to take on who has never apologized for what your own protégé has done for decades? Take a look in the mirror and look around your own house for a while. Although I think he did, because in some way he is responding to his own party's politics. This is what he said a few weeks ago:. In the current circumstances, as a Member of Parliament, the continuation became unsuitable to me. He didn't mean the Hungarian government, he didn't mean the will of the majority of Hungarian voters, he meant the author's party in which you are sitting and which he is trying to accuse the Polish government of being wrongfully; that's why he must prevent you from continuing within the MSZP. I am surprised that in his last speech to Parliament he has always accused us of what, by the way, marked the everyday life of your own policy in recent years and decades. [[10.10]] The LMP also does not praise the Poles, the Polish people, to comment at all. Here was Congressman Hadházy, who even applied to be the lead speaker and then left Parliament. They don't care about the fate of the Polish people, they don't care about the stand for the Poles. It is no wonder what the opposition is doing, because if we think about what this resolution proposal is about, and what you are doing to Hungary, your opposition representatives strongly supported it, or did not sneeze when Hungary was attacked, and you launched Article 7 against Hungary; you are doing the same in opposition outside Brussels as you are doing here in Hungary, what you are doing here against Poland. It is not a question, it is perfectly natural that as a Christian Democrat, just as our youth organisation, IKSZ, expressed to the Poles in a solidarity action, the feeling that is absolutely important and absolutely necessary, we clearly join this proposal for a resolution, we clearly support the Polish people, the Polish Government, in the fight both against Brussels and against immigration, and in order to preserve their sovereignty and to preserve their Christianity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2018-02-20-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can't help but react briefly to Miklós Soltés' speech here. He said that we did not contribute to an urgent trial, and that we were the obstacles to taking Poland's side here all of a sudden. I would like to remind my colleague, Miklós Soltész, that last autumn this decision was made in the European Union, and it was more than six months ago that the decision to initiate this procedure was made. I'm asking you what took you six months. So, to stand up for the Poles here, why is this suddenly urgent for KDNP and Fidesz during the campaign period? What took you so long? And what you are saying here in the multiple speeches, and the way you are trying to share Hungarian politics, by the way, on an issue in which there has been complete consensus: Polish-Hungarian friendship was a rare issue in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism, which was a consensus issue on both sides of the parliamentary horseshoe, which is why everyone supported, for example, the day of Polish-Hungarian friendship; and you are bringing here a question that is clearly a campaign on your part, and that you are trying only to justify and only the steps of your policy to put an end to the dictatorial rule of law. This is not about Poland, it is about your politics, my honourable fellow Member, and all of this is done in such a disgusting way that they will dust off the old Bolshevik trick that anyone who is not with us is against us. The Communists have even twisted the words of Jesus Christ, and you are following in the footsteps of the Communists. Shame on you, my fellow Member, you and all your other KDNP representatives. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-46	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa for two minutes, MSZP.
u2018-02-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened very sadly to Miklós Soltesz, an old acquaintance of mine, back in the 11th century. We met several times in the district, and I gave him a hand of goodwill, as we usually do for the Polish people, even though he is the son of our country, I am very sad because he mixes things that should not be confused with honor. I'm not thinking about our party's past, because we started out in 89, and I think it's completely impossible after all this time, especially after what you've done in the area of redeployment of democratic order. And that is the problem with this Polish decision. You claim that if you want to show solidarity with the Polish people here, even though what is a problem is precisely the anti-Polish constitutional transformation maneuver of the current government. So if you really wanted to represent the interests of the Polish people, you would not make such a decision, but would say that you should respect the constitutional order, that you do not want to subject everything to politics, and that European standards, which are systematically derived from the values of human rights and democracy, do not want to violate that in Poland, in the interests of the Polish people. So if you really are friends of the Polish people, you will not bring such a proposal for a resolution here, because the interests of the Polish people are precisely against such content, it would be about protecting real Polish-Hungarian friendship, Polish democracy and constitutionality, not sayings like those brought here. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2018-02-20-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész for two minutes, KDNP.
u2018-02-20-49	All I would like to say to my Socialist fellow Member is that you are always accusing the leadership of Poland now slowly of leading Slovakia, the Czech Republic and the leadership of Hungary with things that your party has represented for decades: oppression, authoritarian leadership and many other things, just because we refuse to submit to Brussels, just because we not only proclaim and retain our independence. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Márton Gyöngyösi: Until money is offered to you.]] only because you, along with the wailing bettermen, are interested in breaking down the fence, that is to say, the complete dissolution of Hungary's independence. That's the thing. This is also linked to the speech by Márton Gyöngyösi, who very kindly says why we did not discuss this six months ago. Member Márton Gyöngyösi, because the European Commission launched the proceedings against Poland on 20 December. I don't know if you know that there hasn't been a parliamentary meeting since. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP: Yes there was!]] And you said nothing else in your speech that you wouldn't stand up for Poland. Friendship is not about voting in favour of a generality, which is, of course, a question filled with many content, if we really do make a decision proposal, the day of Polish friendship, the joint activity of Polish friendship, but it is filled with the fact that when someone is in trouble, we help them if they are attacked, be it from Brussels, be it from anywhere, we help friends. You refuse to do this, you refuse to stand up for the Poles, but, for example, you contact a Polish Nazi party and consider it the best. Read the papers at the end of March and see what kind of relationship you have with them. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Are we looking for it in the Hungarian Time or in the Ripost? The president's ringing the bell.]] This is your policy and, unfortunately, what the majority of the opposition represents. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-50	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-02-20-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Several Members' contributions inspired me to comment on this debate. Congressman Józsa has already touched on part of what I would like to talk about at least in part, and that is that the unscrupulous populists argue as you argue here in the Hungarian Parliament. You systematically confuse the government of a given country and the people of a given country. We are used to this here in Hungary, Viktor Orbán identifies him on several occasions, constantly, personalizing himself with the Hungarian people. It was necessary to draw attention to the fact that he is an elected leader of this country, but not equal to the Hungarian people, just as the Polish leadership is not equal to the Hungarians. Folks. For the second time, when Mr Soltés spoke, he was already more precise, he said that Polish leadership was being accused. This brings us closer to reality if we say that there is a Polish government that liked the Hungarian road you stepped on. This Hungarian road is about the autocracy that Gergő Bárándy talked about, but to give you a more pleasant description, you have built a multi-party system here in Hungary without democracy. I am bringing this signal structure because it was said earlier by your leader, Viktor Orbán, when he did not like a particular government from opposition. So you have developed a multi-party system without democracy, in which you want to create autocratic tools and autocratic conditions. [[10.20]] This trip was also liked by the Polish government. This is not about the protection of Christianity. This is not about any religious war. It is simply that you can use an ally in the European Union to fight what you are constantly fighting against Brussels. There was talk about who respects the baselines and who doesn't. Well, you certainly do not respect these basic values, just as in many cases the Polish Government does not respect these EU values. This shows that there are demonstrations in Poland and domestic political debates. How much Hungary must interfere with this is, of course, another question, but let us not begin to interpret this in the Hungarian Parliament, although I understand the temptation for you to make a fantastic sacrifice. No, please. What you're doing right now is about protecting yourself. It has nothing to do with Polish-Hungarian friendship, nothing to do with the Polish people. It is simply good for you that the Polish Government is also criticised by Brussels, precisely on the basis of the basic values and the basic treaties. And why would you launch such an attack on Brussels? Of course, there is the general argument: we are very sovereign and we think that this will make us even more sovereign. However, I think that there is another reason why you are now very much attacking Brussels, and this is the various reports by OLAF. I understand that it is embarrassing for the Prime Minister and his family to have a OLAF report about nothing but how Fidesz buddies and friends are getting rich by draining EU funds. I understand that it is necessary to explain in a campaign to the Fidesz voters that bad Brussels is trying to screw us over, which is why any such struggle, as a great moral sacred goal, is good for you to fool and deceive your own voters, but the truth is, please, that you are using the default values and important questions for campaign purposes. The other thing I would like to offer to Mr Soltes is that you said you would not submit to Brussels. So the money's been paid back, right, from all the development resources you've received? 'Cause if I'm not friends with someone, I don't agree with them, if I don't accept the ground rules on which it works, then I guess that's where the money should be returned. For example, exit from the European Union should be initiated where appropriate. This would also be a legitimate debate here in Parliament. I would be against it, but I think it would also be a much more fairer attitude if that was the purpose of Fidesz, if that were the case. Or tell us why they voted for Hungarian accession, why they voted for all the EU treaties, if they suddenly realized that this is a commitment to you that limits Hungary's sovereignty in an incredible way. That is why it seems to me that this is not the issue, but rather the issue of OLAF reports, as I have just said. The other is that you say it's a surrender to Brussels, and I heard it, in the Prime Minister's year review, you said how you put it? Something like we lost the IMF leash. I'm asking you, is the Russian leash good and the Chinese leash? If they don't come with tanks now, but with rubles, then that's fine, then it doesn't bother us from the point of view of Hungarian sovereignty, how many hundred billion forints will have to be repaid to Russia? Or is it the Belgrade-Budapest railway that doesn't bother us that we owe 750 billion to the Chinese? Is this not a restriction of Hungarian sovereignty? Well, please, yes, you can. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches.]] You can tell me that the IMF is bad, but if the Russian national bank or I don't know, commercial state bank gives you the money, then that's okay. Then at least the double standards you've always mentioned are banished from your rhetoric. Or say the Russian leash is a better leash than the IMF leash! It's also a perfectly clear saying. I would add that this would be an interesting point from the point of view of a NATO Member State in the European Union. In the end, let me make one more comment on Mr Soltés's comment: he said that communism was maintained by our party. Of course, this party was founded in 89, but it's a common rhetoric, especially during a campaign period on your part. But, Mr. Soltés, have you spoken to Sándor Pintér, and have you spoken to György Matolcsy, Mr. Fónagy, Mr. Martonyi, Rózsa Hoffmann, István Mikola, and Zsigmond Járai, to leave your party immediately? Because these MSZMP members must have contributed better than me, because I was born in 74 to maintain the previous system. Or Viktor Orbán, Tamás Deutsch, Mihály Varga, who were KISZ-secretaries. Please, I wasn't even a member of the C.I., let alone a secretary. So why don't you talk to your colleagues and tell them to step out of the Fidesz immediately and give back the minister's mandate, because the previous communist regime has been maintained in a dirty, vile way as a party member? Then, please, maybe you should clean up your own house first, and then a voice like that might even be authentic. Not to mention Zsolt Németh, who was a Soros scholar. Viktor Orbán was a Soros scholar. A lot of you were Soros Scholarships. I, please, have applied for a Soros scholarship, and guess what? I didn't get a Soros scholarship. And they got a Soros scholarship. The party in which you are sitting now started with the money of György Soros at the establishment of 89 or 88. So if anyone has reason to be ashamed, if that's why they accepted money from such an oligarch, an international speculator, an international speculator of Jewish origin, they themselves! And you're gonna bring a rule, a law that uses this old, old man for campaign purposes. Well, please, if anyone has to be ashamed of themselves, they are, because they keep lying to their own constituents and everyone else. I think you should be ashamed of yourself. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-02-20-52	Thank you very much. State Secretary Levente Magyar asked to speak for two minutes.
u2018-02-20-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We have turned a long way from Hungarian-Polish friendship. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Also the suggestion!]] I have tried to follow the reasoning of the past few minutes; I am not sure that I would undertake to sum it up. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] Dear House, It is amazing to hear the biased Brussels interpretations and opinions that Jobbik and MSZP have spoken here in the last few minutes. The situation is quite simple: Poland, because of its internal policy, its values, and because it is a proud sovereign country, was attacked by the organisation, the institution whose contract obligation is to enforce European rights and which regularly engages in political action, is far beyond its competence and has invaded Poland from various political considerations. This is where you can lawyer, here you can present various internal political packages and give internal political colors to this story, you can give constitutional explanations, but the situation is much simpler than that. Poland is under attack, Poland is a historical ally of Hungary, the only historical ally. You may be sarcastic, disparaging, bagately speaking of the depths of this friendship, but I do not recommend this, honourable Member, because this is an alliance which is the only one of its kind for Hungary. The situation is very simple: Poland has been attacked and we would like to stand by Poland. What you do is called treason. But we're not surprised because Jobbik and the MSZP are practically living on treason. Jobbik has just betrayed its radical ideas; the basic character of the MSZP, the basic character of the betrayal, let's just think about whether it's "56" or "89" or "2006." Ladies and Gentlemen, The Polish governing party has three times its support against the second force. Therefore, to claim that the Polish Government does not represent the Polish people and the overwhelming majority of the Polish people's will, it is simply impossible. This is a conceptual procedure against the Polish government, i.e. the Polish people and Poland as a whole. We have to stand up. Whoever makes this an internal policy, and whoever's gonna break up this issue, I think it's not worthy of it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Are you lawyering up? It's a real technical term. With such simple thinking, the Secretary of State has long been appointed!]] I'm sure you're a friend of Poland's. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-20-54	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gaal Gergely for two minutes, KDNP.
u2018-02-20-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is shocking to hear representatives of the opposition, representatives of Jobbik and the MSZP, trying to escape pathetic attempts to support Poland [[Dr. István Józsa: Not Poland!]] and stand by our Polish friends. In fact, you are exactly the ones campaigning with your attitude and your speech. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: What brings you here?]] This campaign is what you're doing, and it's not what we want to stand up for our Polish friends. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: You hero, you!]] And by the way, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, I must reject any form of comparison with the Communists. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: You're just like them! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There they sit!]] in the name of a historical party that really fought against communism. [[Attila Mesterházy: I've listed the people who fought!]] As far as socialist contributions are concerned, when you have governments in office somewhere that you don't like, which, by the way, have been democratically elected by a large majority, then, of course, you don't think they represent the people in question. [[10.30]] But, by the way, if we get back to the point, it is about Poland actually being attacked because it is against immigration and that is why Brussels is attacking Poland. [[István Szávay intervenes.]] And just as you do not support the stand in favour of Poland now, you will also show that neither Hungary's struggle nor Hungary's defence is supported, so not only do they not support Poland's defence, but they also do not support Hungary's defence. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: So it's about Hungary?!]] However, we ask for the support of the Hungarian people so that the Fidesz-KDNP government can continue the fight in which we protect Hungary. [[Dr. István Apáti: To make public money disappear!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2018-02-20-57	Thank you very much. My fellow Member, I have listed the people who fought communism as members of the MSZMP before 89 of your ranks. It's the easiest way, by the way, because you have to weaken the enemy from the inside, of course. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] the above-mentioned gentlemen have probably chosen this strategy to disintegrate the system from the inside as a member of the MSZMP for a small promotion at work. This is absolutely logical, they went undercover as moles, and then beat up the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party from the inside. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I think I congratulate you on that. On the other hand, let me ask you, Mr Secretary of State: since you are talking so much about treason, is Poland's Russian policy also so enthusiastically supported? [[Interjections, disclosure in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] Because I see that in that foreign policy there is a small, minor difference between the Hungarian approach... because Putin goes home here, less to Poland. So it seems to me that Poland is much more and more committed to NATO and, let's say, a country committed to the US than Hungary in this respect. So, for example, how does this friendship with the great Polish government manifest itself in Russian-American relations while you betray the Socialist Party? Not to mention, let me quote your boss, we don't want to be the happiest barracks of the Gazprom, and in Europe, Putin's puppies have grown. It seems to me that today the Hungarian Prime Minister is building Gazprom's barracks here in Hungary, and the most enthusiastic cock-wagging pussy is Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-58	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. [[Dr. István Apáti: He asks for it!]]
u2018-02-20-59	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I spoke to him, and I would like to respond very briefly to the subject that was brought up. In relation to Russia, there is a quite clear and tangible difference between Hungary and Poland [[Dr. István Apáti: I can't believe it! Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] we have never denied it, we have never made a secret of it, because if someone follows the European foreign policy, they will clearly see this. Hungary does not see any existential threat in Russia, Hungary has sought to establish a pragmatic relationship with Russia in recent years, and otherwise, if they also follow foreign policy and international developments, then, honourable Member, it has obviously not been overlooked by the fact that, in recent days, Hungary has managed to achieve full energy independence through the fact that we have committed 4 billion cubic meters of natural gas to be produced by the Americans in Romania in the long term. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] , thus the Russian gas monopoly, the Russian energy monopoly in Central Europe, or at least in Hungary, can be declared terminated. So my request to the Member is that when he says the things he says next time he will consider how the actions of the Hungarian Government are related to what you have said, and he will not talk about them. I would like to emphasise once again that in recent years we have built the gas corridor towards Slovakia, it is under construction towards Croatia, we have now established a link with Romania, all of which aims to make Hungary fully independent of Russian gas as the only Central European country, and, of course, as I stressed, we would like to establish a system of relations for Hungarian economic interests. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] with the Russians, as has been observed in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2018-02-20-61	Thank you very much. So let's just take it down a notch, Mr. Secretary, shall we? ! Betrayal and so forth, therefore, is why we have to deal with this debate in its place! That would be my request, one of them. If we were to agree on how many times everyone has told us, and how many times you have betrayed the national interest in party interests and in the interest of the power of Viktor Orbán in the last eight years, [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Then it would be quite a long list. Because this proposal is, by the way, about Viktor Orbán's European ambitions, and then let's talk about it, I think that this is an important thing. The cooperation of the Visegrád Four and the strengthening of the cooperation of the Visegrád Four are a legitimate, important and supported goal, but not necessarily at all costs. It is not Poland that has been attacked, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Soltés, but the behaviour of the Polish Government which destroys democracy in a manner similar to yours and in a manner that follows your pattern is criticised by the European Union, and it has absolutely nothing to do with immigration; indeed, you are like Moricka, who thinks of everything. It has nothing to do with immigration. The Polish Government is taking measures, among other things, in terms of justice, which it has learned largely from you, which the European Union has also criticised in recent years, and the European Union has not attacked Hungary at the time, as you have been willing to say many times, but it has attacked the European Union's measures that have brought down your rule of law. This is what this is all about, and it is about Viktor Orbán's strength to keep this Central European alliance together, even if it has very serious cracks, for example, in relations with Russia. Gas comes from the East, but freedom always comes from the West. Do you remember that, Congressmen? Congressman Soltés, who keeps talking about treason here, and he likes to confront everyone with what he said a few years ago, do you remember that sentence? It wasn't that long ago. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-62	Thank you very much. The two-minute lap is closed. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2018-02-20-63	Thank you very much. Then I would like to respond a little longer and more substantially to Congressman Soltes. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman, we've known your work for a long time, but demagoguery and lies have always been a great master, but what you've done here today is a quality leap even compared to yourself. [[Dr. István Apáti: Down!]] Starting with what happened down here, of course, starting with what happened here, for example, in responding to the speech before the agenda. So it is very good here to refer to democracy, principles of law and so forth in various debates, but, Mr President, we did not have the opportunity to do so, then I will do it for two sentences, if the President will allow it. As a representative of the Hungarian government, you will respond to an opposition party's speech before the agenda, and you will respond to it, then let us talk about it. In one sentence, you did not touch on the question that Gábor Vona spoke about, namely that the Prime Minister's family had mafia-brain cases. And what you said here in response to my fellow Member, Mr Gyöngyösi, was not an answer to what we said. I would like to state once again for the public, the protocol, history, the Polish voice woman and our guests: for Jobbik, the Hungarian-Polish friendship, the value, and quite simply an amazing disgusting thing you are doing about it. You're desecrating this case for self-indulgent party politics. Congressman, why don't you have the dignity of a fellow Member of Latorca? The congressman came and said what had to be said about this. Let us not take this debate to this level, and do not question the opposition, but it is not my place to protect the others, but it is not the good intentions of others on this matter. Let's separate this. It's just plain disgusting that you're trying to argue with that, and you're trying to bring in this kind of campaign. Several times they've done it in recent years anyway, they've been able to drag whatever sacred matter they want down into the mud and turn it into party politics, including national politics. He pulled it out right now, and he couldn't make it today, so he couldn't bring our former President of Szolnok's Facebook post here, and I don't know. It's always been very clear and clear, and it's always been that Jobbik's commitment to national policy, and you've been campaigning on it for six months, and by doing so, believe me, you're not hurting us any more, you understand, Congressman, you're hurting the case, you're hurting the nation's politics if you keep messing with people who don't deserve it. Some deserve, let's say, to sit behind me or not sitting here, because they don't usually go to Parliament, it's enough, I think, to warn the opposition that part of the opposition that, let's say, really deserves it. Don't follow this path, because they're hurting the case. Hungarians are being translated against Hungarians, and we are now seeing this in the elections, Congressman. The Gyurcsány Party does one of the mean sharing by raging against the electoral rights of Hungarians from abroad, and you do it to exploit Hungarians from abroad for party political interests, and they are shown thousands of people in Szabolcs, for example, and we cannot be sure that they will not abuse their electoral vote, and, moreover, they are now often pouring the support into the foreign country, which in many Hungarians in Hungary gives rise to opposition. It's also a division, and it's also an opposite. [[10.40]] You are applying the same tactic now when you bring Polish-Hungarian friendship here in a simple, purely political, and even further, in power-technical matters. Don't do it, fellow Members. They're not hurting us, they're hurting the case. So there is much to talk about on this subject, let us not talk about one thing: do not attack us by not being committed and not standing up for the Poles! It is not for the Poles, but for the Government of Poland. We do not wish to stand up for the Government of Poland on this issue. Let me be perfectly clear. [[For signal:]] In this matter, yes. If they're going to attack the Polish government on matters we think it needs protection, we're going to do it, believe me. But when the Polish government is attacked in a case that destroys, destroys the rule of law and democracy, I believe you that you will have a good heart for them, and we will not do so with such a good heart. And you can talk about double standards here, you can scold the opposition and blame who did what 20 and 30 years ago, but it was interesting to see when Viktor Orbán... I hope that one of the intermediaries will not be bad for this, but it was an interesting match between Viktor Orbán's bestowal when he was talking about what we were anti-communists, and then a few seconds later, the camera showed János Martonyi as he sat in the second or third row. This is about János Martonyi, who was Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's secretary of state three times, and has been an organized agent of state security for more than 20 years. [[For signal:]] Mesterházy and Magaházy That's right. Then there were a few other examples, and I will not mention this, but at least let us not talk about anti-communism, Congressman, I think my fellow Member Mesterházy is right, but let us not talk about this at least. Your government has more communists than it used to be in the MSZP. More modesty in this matter, Congressman, more modesty! A new Communist party state, Congressman, but you're building it. It's a net Bolshevism that you've been doing in power for the last eight years. I have so many parallels, I can't even tell. The next one will be, too. We're about to begin the Stop Soros trial. We are now about the time when the Communists, led by László Rajk, began to ban the civil sphere in Hungary. That's what you're gonna start with. There was also a reason for that, then there were foreigners, imperialists and reactionaries who threatened Hungarian democracy, first they were banned, then religious and reactionary organizations, Scouts, and then at the end everyone who didn't fall asleep in the party state. By the way... I'm telling you this because the parallel is perfect, and I won't be able to speak up in that debate, and if I speak up, they won't answer, so it doesn't matter. You're about to step on this path. All of this is done by creating fear, causing alarm, incitement, and talking about their desire to protect Hungary. No, you don't want to protect Hungary, you want to build on your own dictatorial power, that's what the next proposal will be about, so much more about your anti-communism for a sentence. So, to sum up: we will not support the proposal, because this is not about Hungarian-Polish friendship, not about Hungarian-Polish relations, not about the Hungarian people's standing for the Polish people. This is your government's stand in favour of the Polish Government on a matter that we have criticised on several occasions in recent years, on a matter that does not mean attacking the Polish people and not Poland, but I believe that the European Union, in the majority of it, is not necessarily a legitimate criticism of Poland. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-64	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2018-02-20-65	Thank you very much. I have two minor comments. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if you would listen to how many people here have said that the opposition is not brave enough here. Can you tell me why you weren't brave enough to stand up for the Polish government when Tusk should have been voted off in the European institutions? So why was it enough for the People's Party to say that the People's Party supports the re-election of Tusk as president? Then, interestingly, Viktor Orbán went against the Polish government. At the time, they did not have the courage to stand with the Polish government on this issue. So I'd just like to draw attention to what my better colleague here is saying that you see the splinters in someone else's eyes, but you don't notice the beams in your own eyes. The other is the pragmatic relationship with Russia. Mr State Secretary, I congratulate you on the fact that the Hungarian government's move is truly aimed at diversification in the field of energy, and I think that this is correct for both access routes, resources and purchasing opportunities; this is a good national objective for the current Hungarian government. Once again, let me refer back to the fact that when the MSZP Government signed the South Stream Treaty, the first thing they did was to rush to Washington to report to the Hungarian Government how they could do such a thing to a Russian partner, Russian party, to sign the South Stream Treaty; otherwise, after which they did a lot of things to ensure that the South Stream could be implemented if necessary. On our part, it was never a problem that Russia should be treated in a pragmatic system of relations, that it will not be towed from here, from the region, so naturally it is necessary to count on Russia, I just wanted to draw attention to several times in my various comments over the past four years to the fact that you are at the point of the meeting. So when they're in opposition, they're very, very opposed to the Russians, they really love Americans when they're on the government, then suddenly this thing turns around, and they act a little like an iron-nosed midwife in a magnetic storm, so they don't really know what to stand for. Therefore, I think they also define foreign policy on the basis of their material and economic interests. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-02-20-66	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Miklós Soltész, Mr KDNP, State Secretary.
u2018-02-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the subject of Congressman István Szávay, let me say a few things. One is that your behavior today is shocking. Both during the speeches before today's agenda and in this debate, you have fun and laugh. [[Dr. István Apáti: Listen to that. Listen to that.]] Now I'm not even talking about the wink they're doing to the MSZ. But the fact that you are having fun discussing and talking about the most important issue of this country, this region, and it is clearly our independence, it is clear whether Hungary remains, this region is what it is, or we are going on a completely different path, and you are having fun and laughing. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: What are you talking about? It's your Fucking scam show!]] Here they are laughing, yelling, and instead of standing up for an issue such as this one, or this morning's debate on the speeches before the agenda, you are standing exactly in the opposition line that clearly supports the line of bureaucrats in Brussels. I repeat once again, just so you know, because you feel badly: your party leader, your Prime Minister's candidate, if you can take seriously the thought process of such a man who does nothing but say: Islam is the last hope of humanity, Attila's grandchildren are not afraid of anyone but Allah. [[István Szávay: You have said this twice.]] He hoped that Hungary would leave the EU as soon as possible. Mr Attila Mesterházy, if you are here, you should ask Jobbik this question, because we do not want to leave the EU, but Gábor Vona said that he very much hopes that Hungary will leave the EU and join forces with its real brothers. I'll tell you again with the brothers who, for example, are the Grey Wolves' terrorist organization, who led and led an assassination on a pope of Polish origin, and these are your friends. The Poles do not want to stand up for their friends, not for the Poles, and this whole debate today on this proposal really shows that you are not interested in the will of the Polish people. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You don't care, Miklós!]] The Polish people voted for the current government by a large majority. The Polish people are increasingly supporting this government because they see that the struggle they are fighting for their freedom, their independence and their country's preservation in Christianity is being attacked from Brussels. [[There's constant exposure and interruptions from Jobbik's benches. Martin Gyöngyösi: Look around you!]] And you stand by these Brussels bureaucrats, you stand by George Soros' organizations, you now work with the Socialist Party who clearly want to attack illegal migration. And Poland's independence is also mentioned here. You support Article 7, and you want Poland to die. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's benches.]] [[10.50]]
u2018-02-20-68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2018-02-20-69	What do you mean, they want Poland to die? ! Well, back off, Congressman, out of crap, I'm serious. I'm sorry, we're in the Hungarian Parliament, what do you think you're doing? What do you mean, we want Poland to die? [[Miklós Soltész: That's it!]] Shame on you. [[Dr. István Apáti: Or you are so stupid!]] I'm serious. Shame on you for talking demagogue bullshit. With infinite patience, it was not easy for me to explain my position here, and I asked you not to take this debate to such a low level, but you are unable to get over yourself. What kind of loss do we want? Anyway, let us get back to what the proposal is about. What is Brussels attacking Poland, Congressman? What does this have to do with migration and Christianity, tell me! There is a judicial reform in Poland. What does this have to do with migration and Christianity? Well, what are they talking about? ! What does this have to do with migration and Christianity? Nothing at all. If we were talking about migration and Christianity and this is why he would attack, say, Brussels Poland, then that would be another issue, that could be discussed. Stop the line-up! How many Soros agents are there in Jobbik? How many of us ever had anything to do with Soros? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre to the pro-government benches: none! Just there. They're sitting right there!]] How many of you are there, starting with the Prime Minister? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If there was a Soros plan in Hungary, it was you. Fidesz was Plan Soros, Congressman, 1989-90. [[Dr. István Apáti: He made you human!]] That was plan Soros. Let's stop this. It's nothing to do with us, none of us, I've never had the best knowledge about György Soros or any of George Soros's organizations. I was 16 years old when I didn't sign a grant agreement in Kiskunhalas as vice president of the city fraternity because it came from the Soros Foundation, and I'll tell you, I've never told you about it in public. I didn't sign it when I was 16. That's what I thought, that's what I think now. What did you think, Mr Orbán, Mr Németh, what were you thinking when you were 16, 20 and 25 when George Soros' money was accepted and that money was the money that you were now sitting in Parliament. What were you thinking then? Let's not do this, let's not do this, please. Let's get back to the debate and get back to some normal debate culture, I suggest. That's what we're gonna stick to, though it's gonna be hard. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-70	Thank you, Mr. Notary. The next speaker is Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik.
u2018-02-20-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Respect for the exception inspired me, too, by the inexorably disgusting speeches of the pro-government representatives, to comment on this debate. If George Soros has a serious responsibility, obviously, it's that he put you on our backs. George Soros has an inexorable responsibility for spitting saliva into your leaders' mouths, making them human, teaching them. You know, I studied on my own parents' money. I was trained by my parents, decent peasants from Satmar. And your leaders were trained by Uncle Soros Gyuri. Then what are you talking about? ! His money was good then, and now they're launching the wildest, most hateful campaign along daily political interests. The other, because here, Congressman Soltes said some strange things here, talking about gray wolves and white wolves, and I don't know who they are. He must have read a lot of stories in his childhood, and I can see that it left a deep impression. I also see that you know the letters of the Hungarian alphabet well, but there are problems with understanding reading. That's how I see it, Secretary Soltes. The thing is, are you talking about patriotism here? Are you talking about courage or cowardice? Are you talking about standing up or betrayal? You, of all people? ! May I remind you that on October 23, 2006, your boss wasn't on a refugee armored BMW when his own was shot? ! Not just his own people, but his own direct constituents, the branch of the believer. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Lies!]] Who was running that time on armored BMW? He was shooting his own. If he had the courage and the honor and the patriotic stand and the national emotion, he'd go there and get out of the armored BMW. You guys talk about courage? Well, that's ridiculous. Or are you speaking, Congressman Soltes, who is a representative of a party that, if it were to run independently, would not reach 0.1 percent? Are you talking about social support? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Or are you talking about defending national independence, who voted in favour of the Lisbon Treaty unread? Aren't they ashamed? ! At least give me a little self-criticism, I beg you. Sneaking around suggesting that Gábor Vona would be part of a terrorist organization... if he were part of a terrorist organization, TEK would probably have taken him at a foggy dawn, I suppose. You know that none of this is true. Or are you talking about protecting Hungary? Whose idea was it to build a fence first? From the head of the mayor of Digotthalom. Who voted for those two-thirds proposals? Who helped you to protect the Hungarian border with the police? Representatives of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. We do not expect gratitude for this, thank you for the red carpet, because it is our duty, and we have given our supporting votes with a good heart, but the minimum that we expect is that we should not be accused of lying about us, not of the opposite of reality, because without us we would not have had the two-thirds of it. And how we decided on the amendment of the basic law after the quota vote. We said we'd vote if the settlement bond deal was terminated. They didn't cancel it because the money was more important to you than it was in the interests of the country. You know? ! And then you voted down Jobbik's proposal seven times, which would have excluded all forms of immigration and resettlement, regardless of the title. Well, then don't give us any patriotism. Don't lecture us on good behavior and patriotic thinking. The least they can do is be a little more modest and at least leave us alone, at least they won't start lying about us. You know it's not true. Thank you very much, I won't continue, because it won't end well. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-72	I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2018-02-20-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to read back his speech and to judge whether it is worthy of the representative of the government. Your boss, Mr. Szijjártó, who we've been politicizing here for decades, can distinguish what you say as a spokesperson or a representative and what you say as a representative of the government. I think that if you're from someone, you should at least learn a little from them. He says things like, you know, disperse. The government representative, a Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, uses those words? ! Forgive me, Mr. Secretary, if you represent Hungary at this level in international forums, then woe is upon us. I hope your colleagues are more sophisticated minds than that. I'm sorry for the expression. The fact that you're not a lawyer, I don't think it's a merit. In fact, the lack of knowledge of the law and the lack of knowledge of the law are not glory. Do you think, Mr Secretary of State, that anyone who demands the application of the principles of the rule of law or the enforcement of international law is disenfranchising the debate? Let's not make fun of each other. And the other side of this medal, Mr Secretary of State, is that you may remember it if you could pay attention while I said my speech, because you were talking to our fellow Member Németh, that I was trying to list those elements, or that you might even recall one or two of them, what they are, the 21st. The principles, characteristics, such as the raw majority principle, the emphasis on sovereignty and the rest of the authoritarian systems of the century. I told you this list wasn't complete. Now it seems I have to complete this system of considerations with one more. It is a characteristic of these systems that the government and the ruling parties declare the opposition a traitor and betray the opposition. You represent this method and this principle faithfully in today's parliamentary debate, namely that you call the opposition a traitor as a member of the government. This, again, is also a feature of the 21st century based on scientific research. It's a century-old authoritarian system. On the other hand, I can say that the level of stupidity is beginning to be critical in today's debate. I wouldn't respond to that. I had a kind of illusion, listening to our fellow Member Zsolt Németh's speech, that although we can still have a civilized debate on this subject by expressing and using very different values and very different argument systems. You had to be disappointed. One can say that after 12 years of representation, there is a new one under the sun. Unfortunately, that's what I have to say right now. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente for two minutes. [[11.00]]
u2018-02-20-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I don't doubt that, and I don't think anyone who knows your work in this House is questioning that you're an excellent lawyer. This has been demonstrated and sparkled on numerous occasions by his legal expertise. I think it is also out of the question that, in addition to being an excellent lawyer, you are also a fallen politician of a fallen party, who is currently spending his swan song here in Parliament, and is using the case of standing up for Polish sovereignty and standing up for Hungarian sovereignty to show up for one last time in Hungarian public life. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm retiring on my own! After 800 speeches, I'm not sure I need this! Noise.]] Honourable Congressman, Mr President, if I can make my speech, I would appreciate it very much. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-02-20-76	Here.
u2018-02-20-77	Honourable Congressman, This is a political issue, where I think that the legal arguments have long since been on whether Poland has been attacked or not from Brussels have no relevance. It's a political issue. How do legal reasonings come here that Article 7 can now be launched in precisely what cases, and what action has Poland taken, on which grounds the European Commission is supposed to initiate the procedure in a well-founded and legitimate manner? I think that this part of the debate is long over. It's not time for law school. It's a political resolution. So even though you come here with all sorts of sophisticated legal arguments and even if you're shining your legal expertise, there's no room for this now, no time, this process has gone beyond that. And I think it is really terrifying, Mr honourable Member, that if you take this approach to the Polish case, then how will you vote and what legal reasoning will you come up with when this attack on Hungary starts? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] the way he's already started and headed for conclusion. So I would like to draw both Jobbik and MSZP's attention to the fact that, instead of taking the debate down, they are bringing a political debate down to the level of the law and they are trying to dissuade the debate with all kinds of legal reasoning, they are taking a political position because this resolution is very clear. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] The way it's already started and moving towards conclusion. I would therefore like to draw both Jobbik and the MSZP's attention to the fact that, instead of taking the debate down, a political debate is being brought down to the level of the law and that, with all legal reasoning, they are trying to dissuade the debate, to take a political position, because this resolution is very clear (the President indicates the end of time by jogging the bell. ) how Hungary will be voted when the time comes. Thank you very much. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2018-02-20-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gaal Gergely for two minutes, KDNP.
u2018-02-20-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, as far as migration is concerned, I think that is not surprising or even good, because this is the greatest threat to the future of European civilisation since 2015. As we say, a patient with a falling leg doesn't start treating his cold, so we must pay very close attention to that question. By the way, in Europe today, the political breakline is on this very issue, and precisely on this issue Poland is now being attacked on the basis of this logic. What is the essence of the attack, and we hardly talked about it here, but ultimately this process, after all, the final consequence of the procedure under Article 7 is the impairment of Poland's guaranteed rights under the Treaty, the limitation of the exercise of its rights arising from membership of the European Union. You now support this by not supporting the proposal. You are therefore in favour of reducing Poland's rights, along with Jobbik and MSZP. And we are defending Hungary, and that is our job, and we have the authority to do so, and you are on the side of pro-immigration Brussels. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-80	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr. Miklós Soltész, representative of KDNP for two minutes.
u2018-02-20-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I have to say that although they were trying to make this debate uncategorized, [[Intercoms from Jobbik: What? Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Mostly you!]] István Szávay tried to use words that were amazing in this Parliament, even when, by the way, he yelled at me not in his comments, but in his comments. Nevertheless, I think that the most important question and the biggest question is how do you act? They might say they love Poles. They might say they love Poland. Still, they refuse to stand up to an attack like that. [[István Szávay: This is incredible!]] which clearly will and wants to punish Poland as a whole. You're in that line, both socialists and better men. [[István Szávay: Do you believe what you're saying?]] which is causing Poland to suffer in Brussels, and all because Poland wants to separate itself from the bureaucracy they want to impose on them in a certain way. This is because Poland has also stated that it does not want to become an immigrant country, which, by the way, you clearly want to support. [[István Szávay: We did not support it! Don't lie to me again. Lajos Kepli: Don't ask him to stop lying.]] Indeed, this is the stand that you are now making against Poland, so, as Minister of State Magyar Levente said, he also predicts that they will not stand up for Hungary when Article 7 is launched against the country. This shows that, against a large majority of people, almost 80 percent of you are politicalising, what you want and what you are doing. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Congressman Savay, look at the Internet, look at the party president's opinion and his own thoughts. I didn't come up with the thoughts I said: Islam is the last hope of humanity; Attila's grandchildren are not afraid of anyone but Allah. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: You're scared!]] I didn't visit the Grey Wolf terror organization and celebrate myself, but your party president, Prime Minister's candidate, who finally gave evidence that he couldn't play politics, only looking for extremists everywhere. Thank you very much for your participation in this parliamentary term, you have proved that you are not looking at the interests of the Hungarian people, but of the Polish people. [[Dr. István Apáti: Wow!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2018-02-20-83	It's really unbelievable. I think you really are an addict, Congressman, unable to say a sentence here in Parliament without lying. He just can't do it! Well, let's see another party president's opinion, shall we, Congressman? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán: The people from the Islamic world are not a threat to us, but we welcome them as representatives of a high civilization. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. István Apáti: Oops!]] Islam is the great spiritual and spiritual creation of mankind. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. István Apáti: Point!]] Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said it three years ago. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: What's the matter with you?]] Why don't you keep repeating that, Congressman? Why don't you keep repeating that? [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: Are you Islamic believers?]] I didn't make it up. Shall we say that the Prime Minister is an Islamic believer, Congressman?
u2018-02-20-84	Congressman!
u2018-02-20-85	How about us?
u2018-02-20-86	I have to interrupt...
u2018-02-20-87	No! We don't say it because we know it's a lie. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-88	I must interrupt you, Congressman, your time is up. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on the part of the factions, do you still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask President Zsolt Németh, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2018-02-20-89	Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to say very briefly that this debate has been depressing. I think it is high time for Parliament to suspend its operation during the election campaign, as if a series of incoherent electoral campaign slogans basically swept away opposition contributions, let me add. My fellow Member Attila Mesterházy came in, said three sentences, and then left. I don't think this is worthy of the Hungarian Parliament's rules of procedure. [[Dr. István Józsa: He said much more, spoke 15 minutes!]] Indeed, it is, ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about: a stand for Poland. It is obvious that there are many different links to such a question, to Hungarian internal politics, to Article 7, to immigration, to the European situation in which we are in, but it is basically a stand-up for Poland. Because we believe that Poland is under unfair attack. Is there an unfair attack on Poland or not? A clear answer must be given to this question. If you think that Poland is not under unfair attack, I see that some people in the opposition think so, some people don't, then don't support it. If they feel that there is an unfair attack on Poland, then I think it is justified that they stand by it. I am not convinced by the arguments you have made on this issue. [[11.10]] What you've been trying to prove here is that Poland is not under unfair attack. Are you serious? ! Is Poland not under unfair attack in this current situation? [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Polish Government! There's a big difference.]] Is Poland not under unfair attack? [[Dr. István Józsa: The Polish Government is attacking the rule of law! The president's ringing the bell.]] Today, in Europe, the European Commission, the European Parliament, not the European Union as a whole? [[Dr. István Józsa: The rule of law is being attacked by the Polish government!]] If you say you're not, then you're not serious people. Then they're not serious people. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, I trust that this resolution will have the support of the majority of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-90	I thank the President for his reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President János Latorcai spoke during today's joint debate. In the event of the opposition of the Vice-President's representatives, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will allow Vice-President János Latorcai to hold the Parliament's meeting during the further hearing of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, There will be a joint debate on the presentation of the Hungarian Open ATP World Tour tennis tournament in Budapest in an exceptional procedure. Presentation by MEPs Lajos Szűcs and László Kucsák Fideszes T/1968. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a bill now and we are starting a general debate that we started to plan for 810 years ago. The first and fundamental story was that one of the most exciting places in Hungary and Budapest is Margaret Island. I don't know how many people know, but the circle on Margaret Island is one of the world's most exploited facilities, used by thousands of people a day. This running circle does not have an establishment with a locker room or a buffet, but on one corner of Margitsziget there has been an iconic venue for tennis, Dózsa Stadium, which 20 years ago hosted Davis Cup matches where tennis players in the world group were allowed to compete. The purpose of this bill is to enable a sports development on Margaret Island that provides a place for Hungarian tennis players. You know, 2018 is a year when not only at the end of 2017 but also in 2018 results were produced that not only home but also in the world. We think here of Tímea Babos's World Championship at the end of 2017 and then at the 2018 Australian Open in doubles for the Grand Slam victory, but we can also consider that the Hungarian Davis Cup team is playing in the world group. Everyone in Belgium has seen that this Hungarian team has the heart and the brain in place. It was a very serious stand in the Hungarian coat of arms. And Márton Fucsovics besieged the top 50, but of course there are also disabled athletes such as Roland Németh, who achieve very good results in the world. What we would therefore like to achieve with this bill is that a competition centre in Margaret Island is not only suitable for tennis, but also suitable for everyday performance of this running circle, as well as cultural and even conference tourism in addition to sport. The aim of this proposal is to help this through legislation and to make it easier to design itself and later to build. At the moment there are demolition preparations, and soon we would like to renovate not only the Dozsa Tennis Stadium, but also make up to 30 tennis courts on Margaret Island suitable for various areas of competition. Once again, this proposal is all about preparation and the fact that if we get this opportunity, there should be no delay in the deadline for this construction. Here is the sentence that we must say, which is why it is necessary to bring it before Parliament urgently. In 2016, we won the right to direct the ATP, one of the 250 men's professional tournaments, lease it, rent the right to direct this competition, and at the beginning of 2018 it turned out that we could still hold these races for five years after 2019, but the ATP requested that this be carried out on a permanent site. Last year, this was at the National Training Center, because we were preparing for the Margitsziget to be finished at some point, and this year this competition will be on the Kopaszi dam in April. The specific and later goal is to create not only a 250-point location, but also a 500-point location. Tennis today is a sport in a position where the tournament calendar is narrow. There is no possibility of organizing new tournaments or putting them on calendars, so we only have the opportunity and opportunity to do so if we know of a resignation somewhere. This is also a very serious business venture, and I think that in this respect the Hungarian government has recognised that it is important not only for Hungary, but not only for Hungarian competitors and competition sports, but it can be profitable from a business point of view, because it can be a successful series of competitions for both sponsorship and visitors. I'd like to give you some information about last year's tournament. More than 25,000 viewers were on the temporary spot during the five days of this competition, and on the basis of the data provided by the international association, the media access to this competition amounted to 260 million people. I think that many sporting events that have been held in Hungary in the same way would like to achieve them. This means that in a permanent location, after proper preparation, both the number of viewers and foreign access can be higher, so this investment can be profitable from a business point of view. I would therefore ask my fellow Members to discuss and adopt the bill necessary for the development of this iconic site, Margaret Island. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-02-20-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to clarify the practical issues related to the implementation of the Hungarian Open ATP World Tour tennis tournament in Budapest, as stated by the Government in its decision of June last year. The submitted bill creates the right legal environment to host a world-class competition of major international interest in another sport in Hungary. [[11.20]] The bill therefore makes it an extremely important public interest, as we have heard from the rapporteur about the organizing and organizing of the tennis tournament. In addition to competition and replacement training, the international standard building in Margaret Island provides modern, attractive services for mass sports, wheelchair, senior and leisure tennis players. Ladies and gentlemen, Like my fellow Member, I would like to stress that this facility, in addition to its primary relationship to tennis sports, provides basically an opportunity for this activity to develop further in a place that has been existing for centuries on Margaret Island and creates a very distinct opportunity for a European capital. The Margitsziget has not only been an outstanding object of the narrower surrounding districts, but also of the capital, as well as tennis in the Alfréd Hajós Stadium, Hungarian swimming sport, boat houses, kayak canoe sports, rowing sports, and the otherwise running track that has been running for 20-25 years, from the most diverse age people on the other two banks of the Danube to visiting foreigners every day. I don't deny for a moment that I have a strong personal relationship with Margaret Island, I grew up there, I studied the profession there, I consider Margaret Island to be an opportunity in every respect that the whole country needs, and its growing services give me pride and an opportunity to live a healthy life that has already been mentioned today in connection with other proposals. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to improving the quality of sport and leisure services, to promoting our international sports success and to the establishment of an establishment to stimulate the economy and tourism. In the hope of that, I thank you for your great attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-20-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have a presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be relatively narrow, since the Legislative Committee has negotiated and unanimously supported and supported the amendments, in accordance with the exceptional procedure, and therefore considered the whole proposal worthy of support. I can tell you the same thing. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-20-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik Group.
u2018-02-20-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although we do not fully understand why such an important law is introduced with special procedure and urgency on the last day of the parliamentary term, the bill itself can be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We consider it very important that we finally have an investment in Hungary that will result in the creation of a tennis stadium, a tennis hall of international quality. It is an important goal to finally build such a one in Hungary, because if the replacement is already the world's leading or catching up with the lead, it is very important that we are able to provide them with a suitable, worthy location. The current tournaments have already been referred to in this introduction to order at the Kopasi dam by building a tennis stadium that is then demolished after the tournament. That's a huge cost. It is very important that such an investment will fundamentally make the setting up of a larger tournament more cost-effective. Studying the bill, we are particularly pleased that not a new location has been designated, there is no need to tear down a fountain, a playground, a zoo or something on the island, but to develop the old center. In that sense, the old location is useful. Indeed, the investment is carried out on an iconic site. The use of alternative energy in the operation of the installation should be mentioned as a specific positive. It is also very gratifying, because many of us have sports experiences at Margaret Island, I have also been running to Margaret Island myself, and it is a decades-old problem that it was very difficult to meet the needs of athletes who come there in terms of changing and cleaning; so it is very important that people who regularly go there to play sports and run can really use this facility. We think it is very important that this should prevail in the implementation and that this investment should be carried out not only by tennis players, but also by those who go to Margaret Island to play sports on weekdays and weekends, they can also use this facility. What I would like to say not as a negative, but rather as a wake-up call is that what is worth taking care of in the construction is the question of parking, the approach, because in all major investments, in large sporting events, both approach and parking are very, very important aspects. Not only from the operator's point of view, which is not a very popular activity these days, but also a very, very important aspect for the public in general is how to get to the site and how to park a car there, if any. This is a very important aspect in the design of all modern sports facilities, which must be enforced and implemented very carefully. Another very important aspect that I think is worth paying attention to is the water level of the Danube, which has sometimes caused problems in Budapest, especially in Margaret Island. There have been, where appropriate, problems with certain sports facilities in floods. The example of the Széchy Tamás Swimming Pool, built on Eb in 2006, also shows that the Danube can sometimes challenge designers and contractors. The 26 m altitude of the project can only be achieved by sinking the facility underground. Such drawings, such plans, can be seen in the visual design. It is very, very important in this case to make sure that this is technically difficult. I am only over building a family house, but there is also the construction of the basement and the proper waterproofing layers and waterproofing to be done well, perhaps from one of the most important static and other aspects. Technically, it is very important that this is done well, and that the waterproofing layer below the surface, waterproofing, should be sufficiently resolved, and this should be implemented cost-effectively, as it is a rather costly procedure. It is worth paying attention to the cost-effective implementation of the project itself and not to go beyond the cost frameworks set out in the planning line. Otherwise, the bill can be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We very much hope that this will contribute to the training of replacements, to the future successes of the entire tennis sport at all, and that the whole country will be able to support the successes that we have had recently, thanks to God, Tímea Babos and Márton Fucsovics. We very much hope that this will continue in the future and that this facility will contribute to these national successes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.30]]
u2018-02-20-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2018-02-20-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have faced quite a surprise with the presentation, because until the Fidesz-KDNP strives to, say, tackle poverty, education problems, health problems, any issue of foreign exchange credentials, they are able to codify and push the entire legal material of a tennis tournament in one day to the National Assembly. Apparently, if it's presented by people who seem to be super-goons, then there's every opportunity to have a broad framework for this competition. In the last days of the Parliament, I intended to speak in the voice of peace and love, and I would first like to congratulate my fellow Member, Lajos Szűcs, who also spoke as a petitioner, and then also represented Fidesz, and then attended the Legislative Committee. So if it's possible to create a right in a person and care for everything, then it's no wonder something's going on. Basically, our main concern is that the sport policy of Fidesz-KDNP has failed in the first place. Apparently, developments built on competition sports did not bring the result, the background to Hungary's efforts to preserve health better into Hungarian culture. Obviously, what we are seeing now is that the past period, the number of properties that have been subject to the maintenance obligations of the last eight years, is that the country is failing. Let's say that once there will be a normal government for the country, which will be important to health or education, and some of its resources must go to the organisation of such competitions and to the maintenance of real estate, while no one wants to develop the rural road network. Here in the last four years I have talked about three and four-digit trips several times, but now we can also talk about single-digit trips, the new bypasses of Highway 4, the quality of them. It is interesting that Fidesz-KDNP is not concerned to the least about what is going on with Hungary's public tasks, and is always able to find a competition again and again, where you can create something that will allow people to make a good construction project. My fellow Member Szűcs said in his introduction how important it is to have this done on time. Well, I'm gonna need the Fidesz faction to tell me, over the past few years, a sports development that's been completed by the deadline. Give me one of the last eight years that's done on time and cost as much as they said. Well, that's never happened before. If the deadline is this tight and it's this tight, it's almost the impossible category. On the other hand, with a substantial risk, the decoying of Margaret Island begins. And obviously that's what we're interested in as a political community with a view to the capital's vitality, how many trees they want to cut down again. [[To intervene:]] There's no wood cut. What kind of built heritage does he ruin? What is this investment even risking? Basically, we see that there would be a very, very large number of locations in the capital area that could be implemented both from the point of view of accessibility and without risking the protection of green surfaces, with various rust rehabilitations. Is that why, in principle, it occurs to me that if my fellow Members in tennis are more informed than I, they will see, say, Wimbledon's orbits are downtown in the middle? No, they're not there, they're nowhere. Large tennis courts are everywhere in outer zones, and such a racetrack is not typical of entering the heart of the city. Obviously, the economic impact that my fellow Member, Mr Szűcs, basically mentioned in addition to the maintenance tasks, raises further concerns. After all, he said that there were economic opportunities and opportunities for sponsors. But why aren't they financing it? If this is such a profitable, so good investment, then why should it be financed from public money that could be used to carry out public tasks? Here it is, in effect, here we are faced with all the infrastructure related to the water world, which they could do much more, much more, much worse than they had planned. Why do you think this could be any different? Basically, what is most visible in terms of perspective is that so far improvements have not brought with them the sports development success that you expected. Just because all the stadiums are being renovated doesn't make Hungary's football level any better. No more visitors. It is already basically possible to say statistics show that the attendance of the matches has significantly deteriorated. Why do they think that new infrastructures can contribute? My fellow Member Szűcs said that, let us say, the infrastructure we are creating could also create the possibility of developing conference tourism, as if otherwise the capital were not full of locations that are perfect for conference tourism. These are available at the moment. Because of all the risks we see in order to protect Margaret Island, because of all the risks that appear financially, and for everything that the government's priority investments have reported to Hungary over the past four years or over the past period, I believe that the political faction of May Others in this form will certainly not be able to support this rapid presentation. The faction has not discussed it yet and has not yet established its position, but based on our first impressions there is much more risk, much more danger than the adoption of the legislation. There is obviously a possibility that all resources in this regard could be used for those sports purposes, but even more so for other public tasks, health, foreign exchange credit, education and environmental protection. That is why we do not consider this to be a forward-looking and useful presentation. I would ask all three fellow Members of Parliament present to consider with their factions the possibility that in 2018, two months before the elections, the most important thing is that Fidesz puts the development of tennis competitions on its flag and campaign with this instead of dealing with real social problems and real problems. The resources have a place throughout the Hungarian countryside, and it is safe to start a number of infrastructure renovations. You can steal from that, it's been proven in the last eight years, and you don't need a new tennis stadium. I would ask you to focus more on what concerns people's daily lives, rather than risking one of the capital's most important values with new infrastructure. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-02-20-100	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Since no one else wants to speak, I will now ask President Lajos Szűcs as rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-101	Thank you for the floor. I'm very honored to be declared a superman. You probably don't know that I'm a member of the Legislative Committee, and as such, I can speak on this particular matter when the Legislative Committee... [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] Mr. Millbuilder! I think I could say a lot of things, thank you very much for bringing up my social positions. I think I'm trying to represent the interests of the people who elected me here in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, I think that when we are talking about such a bill, I have tried to say with honor that it is indeed because of the urgency and urgency that, on the basis of a long-term agreement, the opportunity has now been opened to talk about this competition centre. I also said that the idea and planning of this began nearly ten years ago with the capital city. So I think it's a story that we've been around a lot. I have the honour to inform you that there are 32 tennis courts on Margaret Island. Some of them have been grown into weeds, but what was a tennis court, according to the sports law, we want to keep it that way. So the renovation of these will not result in damage to the trees, but, perhaps, the destruction of weeds and messes. Thank you, Márton Gyöngyösi, for his words. We are here in the House, in Parliament, and the parliamentary underground garage has proved in recent years that there is a technical solution that can solve the questions you have said. At the very end, I would also like to mention the question of parking. At every major tennis tournament in the world, Wimbledon, you can walk for nearly half an hour, although it is in the middle of the city, in one of London's most exciting residential areas; the Roland Garros in Paris is another 10-15 minutes walk away from the last metro station. Indeed, my fellow Member, Répássy, said that nowhere in the world there is a competition venue on an island. [[11.40]] When we said this anywhere, they were very impressed and delighted. I will be able to show you pictures of last year's ATP tournament from the world star athletes who have told you that they left the hotel before the competition and ran on Margaret Island, they have never been able to prepare in such an environment. We don't plan extra parking on Margaret Island, the number of parking spaces will remain the same. We plan, however, that during the period of such a competition, other solutions to public transport can be used to satisfy the access, even by entering the Hajós Alfréd Swimming Pool. It is very clear how it can be done, whether by electric buses it is possible to manage the delivery itself. We don't want any environmental pressures on Margaret Island. It is very important for us, too, that this wonderful natural environment remains so. Thank you for your support, and thank you for the criticism, and thank you for the inclusion of this House in the series of articles. For the next year's competition, it's not a miracle, it's a lot of work that we're going to do together. Thank you for your attention and your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Following the conclusion of the consolidated debate, I thank you, Mr President, for your answers. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that decisions will take place on this day. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/1983. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I will give the floor first to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the author of the bill. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-02-20-103	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to add to three strategic goals that the Government has repeated in 2010 and 2014 the present proposal before you. On the one hand, this proposal is an eloquent proof that the current government, the third Orbán government, thinks much more about the Hungarian economy than other actors in Parliament, who basically see the demographic and economic background of Budapest or, where appropriate, Western Europe in Hungary. We believe that the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian countryside are worthy of development in their own right, so we presented a proposal to the Parliament that supports landowners in agricultural production in order to obtain other additional income. I am talking about landowners, landowners, so we did not put forward a proposal to the Parliament for investors, but a proposal that could help the farming community. On the other hand, this proposal also serves to support energy independence, as we said that Hungarian energy production should be primarily about maintaining nuclear power generation, but also taking into account the technical characteristics and recalling the debate that we had with Mr Sallai on wind energy, we also promised that there would be a proposal before the National Assembly to put alternative energy sources in service of domestic energy production in order to reduce Hungary's dependence on energy. We are therefore also talking about a major proposal in this regard. Thirdly, the dialogue that the Hungarian government has been continuing with countless social and economic interests since 2010 is another proof, since the proposal of the Chamber of Agriculture is essentially the proposal that is in front of you today, which specifically opens an opportunity for landowners to obtain other income. Turning to the specific proposal, we are talking in particular about the possibility for landowner farmers to establish solar power parks with half-megawatt production capacity on their own land and the obligation for electricity grid operators to provide network development for up to 3 km in connection with the grid, i.e. up to 3 thousand metres free of charge, as well as the technological means necessary to obtain electricity from farmers. The bill also amends previous provisions on a number of other points, such as the obligation for the electricity supplier to provide small power plants with this transfer option irrespective of their production capacity. In terms of solar energy, where we are talking about a Hectic power generation tool, but in view of the geographical conditions in Hungary, one of the most useful alternative power generation tools, the network operator should provide a network preparedness without a cap and also accepting hectic variable production, which, as we believe, allows or supports the medium- and long-term objective of ensuring about half of the energy produced or used by the country in terms of the use of Hungarian electricity, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and, in terms of the remaining 50 per cent capacity, of fossil fuels and renewables as much as possible. So Hungary is seeking an energy mix where the nuclear power plant provides a basic capacity in Paks, and we are trying to satisfy the capacity above through renewable alternative devices to the highest possible extent. Of course, there is another alternative solution to this, as has been said here in other debates before the Parliament's public, but given the current geographical conditions in Hungary, there are two means of energy production that can be operated in a profitable and economic way: solar energy and geothermal power. This proposal opens up the possibility for more than 3,000 farmers to obtain a more secure income in addition to the hectic, often unpredictable, income-generating capacity of agricultural production. This is an opportunity for them which, I think, is worthy of the support of the Parliament as a whole. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-02-20-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform you, Parliament, that according to our adopted decision, according to the rules of the exceptional procedure, yesterday the Legislative Committee discussed the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/1963 amending Act No. The Committee submitted a report with 22 votes in favour. The purpose of this amendment is to facilitate the establishment of small plants with renewable energy sources, not subject to authorisation. In order to increase domestic energy production, it is appropriate to give priority to renewable energy sources, which promote long-term energy security. The implementation of these projects will also create new jobs and provide a long-term, profitable investment opportunity. Please support the adoption of the bill in order to achieve the objectives. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes of time. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-02-20-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2030 national energy strategy prioritises the promotion of renewable electricity generation. We think that this is a very right direction, because Hungary has a commitment to a similar strategy of the European Union, and this, after taking seriously all the government's commitments in this national energy strategy, has also been translated. [[11.50]] As the Secretary of State said in his expo, we strive to make Hungary less vulnerable to imports, as we see that if in any market, in the markets that produce the energy we demand, there is a problem, as it has been seen in Romania in recent years, then it is obvious that the country is striving to primarily serve its own households and its own industrial service providers. So in this case, energy imports that are counted into the domestic balance sheet can obviously fall out easily. So it is not even a question that it is of paramount importance not only for the stability of Hungarian households, but also for the development of the Hungarian industry, the Hungarian economy, that at all times there is sufficient electricity at the disposal of the sector. The purpose of this amendment is to make it easier for small plants using renewable energy sources, which are not subject to authorisation, to exist in Hungary as many as possible. The bill would like to give Hungarian farmers an opportunity to obtain a predictable, secure income if they have land that is not sufficiently efficient in terms of agricultural production. In addition, small domestic-sized power plants, which are not subject to authorisation, are a separate category for the purposes of regulation, with a maximum capacity of 50 kilowatts. This production segment has undergone explosive development in Hungary in recent years. After the slow growth in previous years, the installed capacity of small domestic power plants doubled in 2010, and the same doubling continued unbroken until 2015, which was indeed an explosive growth in this market. As a result, by 2016, the amount of electricity supplied to the grid by small power plants of household size was close to 112 thousand megawatts of power. At present, owners of small power plants can use a two-way electric meter to follow the amount of electricity purchased and supplied to the grid during the monthly or annual accounting period. Based on this account, the service provider can be accounted for at the end of the year, thus making a significant contribution to reducing household costs. It is no coincidence that such a significant additional demand has occurred in this market in recent years. Of course, the owner pays the difference between the price of the electricity purchased by the owner and the price of the electricity supplied to the network. As a result of the amendments contained in the bill before us, distributors will now be obliged to create conditions for the connection of small power plants not subject to authorisation to the network. In addition, the proposal provides for a partial exemption from the obligation to pay the accession fee for small power plants not subject to authorisation. Dear House, The popularity of small power plants of household size is still increasing significantly today. This is not only an obvious example of Hungary, but also a European example. By 2016, built-in performance increased by 25 percent compared to 2015, thus exceeding the total output of 165,5 megawatts. Solar-powered small power plants accounted for 99% of the installed power not subject to authorisation, i.e. almost entirely in this market, the installation of solar panels was included in the non-licensed category. This meant more than 20,000 solar panels, mainly built on rooftops, which serve to reduce additional overhead costs for households of Hungarian families. In recent years, it has also resulted in this explosion-like increase by constantly reducing investment costs in this market. After all, thanks to the results of R &amp; D, solar panels are becoming cheaper and it is expected that this demand will remain at the same dynamic growth level in the future. Obviously, it is our job to make it as easy as possible for both households and farmers now, thanks to the bill, to take advantage of it where it is possible and possible to do so, so that they themselves are not allowed to install small power plants that, either in order to serve their own energy needs or are fed into the network, generate additional income and surplus profits for their business. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office received nearly 2400 applications for KÁT support by the end of 2016, a significant part of which came from the solar small power plant category under built-in power with half megawatts. We therefore think, ladies and gentlemen, that both Hungarian households, Hungarian families and Hungarian farmers deserve to be helped by legislation in this area as well by their initiatives aimed at reducing the rent and obtaining a certain income. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill, because I believe that this will not only improve the well-being and livelihood of tens of thousands of Hungarian households, but also more than 3,000 Hungarian farmers later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this proposal could be nice, you could say: it is sunny, because the number of sunny hours in Hungary is significant especially in the southern part of Hungary. It approaches the 2 thousand, which is, of course, a long way from 3,000 hours in southern Portugal, but in any case, the sun is worth the energy. As I was pleased to hear from the rapporteur that the geothermal industry I have been talking about for ten or fifteen years, in fact, here in the Hungarian Parliament, it would be worth serious consideration for Hungary, more precisely, to seek out deep thermal mining. This is now also mentioned in the government proposal, at least in the oral amendment. So I would also like to see the legislative proposal to reduce, for example, the risk of geothermal energy mining at regulatory level. I will also talk about solar energy in terms of geothermal capabilities, but I am now caught in geothermal Hungary's capabilities are very good. For geothermal heat mining, it can be said that with a depth drilling, which is at least 3,000 metres deep, the cost exceeds one billion forints, 6-7 out of ten can be successfully put into production, so it would be worth dealing with. But what about the 2-3 who drills blindly? Therefore, according to the law of large numbers, it would be appropriate to establish regulation, a regulatory environment with which a risk community can be established, or to find a large investor who can drill at least himself 15-20-30 thermal mining wells, and, let's say, such a noble goal as the district heat supply of the capital, which could be solved with thermal geothermal elements, can be reset. This would certainly serve sustainability, making district heating much cheaper in the foreseeable future; at the same time, in the case of, say, rural heat mining sites, where geothermal could be used primarily for electricity production, there would be a very large area of foil tent or greenhouses that could be heated in the amount of heat that could not be used for electricity production, with about five times the amount of heat. Returning to the present proposal, which is T/1983. Takes note that the aim of the bill is to facilitate the connection of solar panels to the distribution network. This is very appropriate, but what the previous speaker said about Hungarian farmers attacking the network with such small power plants is, I think, a bit illusory from the point of view of electricity supply. Because it is a goal to support everyone's own consumption, let's say, for 50 kilowatts, under preferential conditions, but if we want this solar capacity to have a significant impact on the national network, then we should not be thinking in such 50 kilowatts. I think even half the megawatt railing is very small. So this should be done much more bravely and more directionally. [[12.00]] So the fact that now, as has been said, 2400 permits have been issued, KÁT is a question of how many of them have access to them, shows that many people have asked for these permits without any prerequisite because it shows how much they had serious intention of starting construction and how many of them actually joined the network. It is very likely that it would be worth looking over here who can build it, who should be supported, and the rest should be asked to return this permission or to give it to someone who can build it. However, I am not convinced that the Orbán government is so keen on renewable energy. Although I myself am convinced that renewables are the future, not only in energy, but also in everything else, in politics and even in the personal careers of people, the Orbán government has shown little potential for renewal in the field of energy. They sometimes advocated renewable energies in words, but their actual actions contradict that. The fact is that since 2010, the Orbán government has done almost everything to combat the development of the renewable energy sector, for example, I am thinking of stopping the construction of the wind power plant. I could put this practice in these communications titles in seven steps. In the beginning, the government said that the support system at the time was wrong, but then he did something new, better, more modern. It was said that the mandatory transmission system of electricity produced from renewable energy sources or waste at that time is not sustainable, does not take into account national or professional policy considerations, and therefore it is necessary to re-regulate it fully. This is how the government took office in May 2010 announced that it would introduce significant changes in the legislation on the use of domestic renewable energy sources. This great enthusiasm went on until, with a single decision on 16 March 2011, Parliament abolished the extraordinarily gas-saving, highly economical cogeneration, as it cancelled its support, eliminated 1000 megawatts of capacity, and zeroed about HUF 1000 billion of invested assets with a single decision. [[To Dr. Pál Völner:]] The Secretary of State smiles at it, but according to measurement data at that time, the value of the unused gas was about HUF 50 billion per year per year, so Russian gas exports could be saved for 50 billion forints. Maybe it was your eyes, maybe they wanted to pay the Russians more, but they did, because from then on, the remote heating plants didn't have an economic energy source, but they had to go back to the old boilers and burn them properly. The other thing they promised me was the introduction of METAR. Now, this may be possible now, in 2018, but it was promised seven years ago. The European Commission has been very febrilely consulted on the concept of METAR, but given that in seven years nothing has been achieved, this means that if these were only such an understanding. All along, it has been stressed that renewable energy production has negative characteristics, all energy production has negative characteristics, the government mentioned the relatively high costs of energy from renewable energy sources, which were not paid by the population in Hungary; he mentioned that they are produced according to a non-predictable programme, which is partly true, but can be managed by regulation; they mentioned that capacity is difficult to control, and therefore the nature of it has always been found to be unpredictable. When we, the opposition, called to account for the failed developments, there was always an excuse why they didn't do anything. However, they proudly announced that Hungary had already completed its 14.65 percent share of renewable energy consumption to the European Union in the spring of 2017. Another question is that this glory is due only to a change in the statistical methodology, because wood burning is already included in the statistics, and even forest wood fired by power plants, and it is not certain that the share we have is due to an increase in actual energy consumption. Not only should we feel sorry for people for firewood, we believe that, especially in the area of public forests, we should allow twigs and put those who need them to wood within an organised framework, not only for the money from the trees, but also for the tree itself, but for the actual production of renewable electricity, let us say, apart from this proposal, because that is why the Orbán government has made little concrete. To be sure, they also tried to make the construction of new wind power plants more difficult by regulatory means. In the summer of 2010, the Orbán government withdrew the tender for the creation of wind power capacity of nearly 400 megawatts in 2009, and the new tender was not mentioned, there was nothing published, and in the autumn of 2016 the government, by changing the regulation, practically took full responsibility for authorising the construction of wind power plants, and it does not intend to issue such a permit itself, because what it looks like to be issued by the government. They have also ignored the country's industrial policy, agricultural, employment and energy policy aspects and the objectives of the renewable energy recovery action plan, so there is a very nice energy strategy, there is a very nice renewable energy recovery action plan, but things are not going according to that. According to the Orbán Government, the winners of METÁR will be solar and geothermal plants, i.e. those sectors which will produce less electricity, rather the aid for the owner. These are not expected, as I mentioned, of a significant increase in domestic employment, and the share of investment is quite possible, because not everyone who has asked for this authorisation wants to invest, and cogeneration is only possible. By making better use of the potential of domestic biogas and biomass use and increasing the areas that can be included in the production of energy crops, we could create a further 100,000 jobs with low skills, so I am talking about energy forests, while the installation of energy-producing and energy-using equipment alone could create thousands of additional jobs here in Hungary, but this is somehow not important for industrial policy. Instead, nuclear power plants are building steam, while the use of Russian natural gas has now been declared a small correction as a complete fact that the gas in Romania will compensate for Russian gas. But this is still, as they say, in the Moon, because the extraction has just begun, so this natural gas has been found there in the eastern part of Romania, partly under the sea, that is a fact, but there is no production capacity yet, and there is no pipeline system that can be used to bring it to the Hungarian border, and the Hungarian natural gas system could be fed. So you're ready to say that as a fact, it might be a little too soon. [[12.10]] It is important to see that Hungary has almost everything to do with the growing use of renewable energies to redefine domestic industry, agriculture and increase employment. The goals are given, the necessary knowledge, expertise, diligence and cooperation are available in renewable industries, the necessary technologies are already available. Our possibilities are limited only by Hungary's natural characteristics and the lack of the government's will and ability. There is little we can do to change the geographical features, and we need to adapt, but I think that the government's intentions should be modernised. This, which you have just presented, is a very small step, a good step, but it is a very long way to go. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-02-20-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is a rather interesting process that you have described in the last eight years of your governance in terms of your attitude towards renewable energy, because you have communicated completely differently years ago, by the way, until the last moment of your governance, than what you are now initiating in a motion brought in urgently on the last day of the 2014-18 parliamentary term. We remember very well that not so much as an uplifting moment a few years ago, when the secretary of state, L. Simon László, who was sitting in the seat of Minister János Lázár, found himself sitting in the same place where Mr. Secretary of State Csepreghy now found that solar energy cannot be built, because electricity is needed in the evening, when the sun is not shining, and he found all this in response to a speech, perhaps before the agenda, on behalf of the government. Since then, it seems that you've been enlightened to be stylish, and you've realized that solar energy can be built, but more likely, you've come to the conclusion that solar energy has money, money that can be stolen. It seems that after the traffikmuti, the ground dog, the nuclear dog, solar dog, there is a hundred billion-dollar source of tender that was suspended at the time for the implementation of solar power-generating equipment, which is obviously already under control by those near-government entrepreneurs, oligarchs who have always benefited from everything in these two government cycles. The three thousand 0.5 megawatt solar panels, the resources for this will probably also find those who received the land at the time, as they were close to the current Fidesz vassals, who received the traffiks, and who received all kinds of discounts and all sorts of tender money from the Fidesz administration. However, this is a narrow layer of society, a rather narrow segment of society, on which you can build your own economic prosperity for government entrepreneurs and for government members themselves, but for the energy supply of a country, I think it is by no means possible. Renewable energy sources are a much more complex issue than discussing them with a bill imported in such a dog race and voting on how to steal them more effectively, and it is important to push this through Parliament quickly before the elections. They may fear that they will not be able to do so after the elections in 2018, and they are rightly afraid of it. However, where were they when a wind farm had not been established in Hungary since 2010? We've talked a lot about wind farms here. There is potential in wind energy even in Hungary right now, which could be exploited. Indeed, there is, as has been said, also in geothermal energy, and other forms of renewable energy have significant potential in Hungary today, and we are indeed here at solar energy, but we are asking the government, in a stylish manner, not to be lurkers, not to spend their time stealing solar and solar money, but to really aim to increase Hungary's share of renewable energy production. This is a truly worthwhile and meaningful goal, so it is really worth pursuing and working on a government policy, but it should not have started at the last moment of an 8-year governance, they would have had 8 years. In these eight years, what have you given renewable energy or solar power itself? The environmental product price for solar cells, 27 percent VAT on solar energy production equipment, and I could still tell you how long they tried to prevent renewable energies from spreading, while they kept saying that if the new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant were to be implemented, it would certainly be a priority over renewable energy, which is not reliable, which is hectic, and the rest that is true. Now it seems that these problems, which could even be raised as a professional problem, but you are looking at them from a political point of view only, are no longer problems. The implementation of three thousand 0.5 megawatt solar panels and the connection of this three thousand 0.5 megawatt solar power plants to the Hungarian electricity grid, the disruptions that could cause in the electricity grid, whether the Hungarian electricity network is prepared for this, whether they can regulate the hecticity of this renewable energy generation, will not be mentioned at the same time, even though they have prevented this form of energy from spreading for years. However, what you can hear is that when the oligarchs near the government, when Lőrinc Mészáros, when János Lázár's good friend János Sánta casts his eyes out on solar energy, they realize that this is a huge, 100 billion-dollar EU resource, renewable energy will be important to the government, which so far lies somewhere in the drawer and under the carpet, as well as the whole environment and renewable energies. And by the way, it's probably typical of everything, that until there's money in it, there's no source to steal, the government doesn't care. This is the main guiding principle of the policy of the current government. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has never been against the spread of renewable energies, and all of our professional programmes, all of our electoral programmes included the need to turn renewable energy sources into the domestic energy mix in a much larger proportion than the current one. However, we believe that the era of large power plants is beginning to expire, and that decentralisation and the abolition of centralisation should be turned towards local energy production, on a smaller scale, whether domestic energy-generating equipment, solar panels or other geothermal power-generating equipment, heat pumps or even less powerful biomass boilers, power plants, to supply smaller communities, whether settlements or complete settlements. In this case, energy supply in Hungary is much less dependent on international energy prices or even on foreign networks, if it is not so centralized and not in large power plants, or if there is a significant share of our electricity use from imports, because imports are a significant factor in electricity use today. If the energy efficiency investments that the government has consistently blocked and hindered for years could have been realised, and I am thinking primarily of the Hungarian families, not again of the beneficiary, of the government, of the oligarch circle, of entrepreneurs, but of the Hungarian families, if the Hungarian families, condominiums and family houses had access to the resources that you did not allow them to become available, then, by reducing energy use, we have certainly taken a step towards reducing our dependence overall and recovering from our energy dependency. This would be the way, and this is the XXI. Company. [[12.20]] I think we still need large power plants at the moment, but this is a process that lasts decades. More and more we have to back out of XX. moving from a generation method typical of the century to a local energy supply. Of course, the cheapest energy is the energy that is not produced, which is not to be produced, because we have made energy efficiency investments so that we do not have to produce and use it, so we are still encouraging the government, including during the last period of its governance, to be courageous and to provide greater resources for this, if they will still be able to do so in the next short period. So the Hungarian population has a large part of the domestic energy saving potential, because the energy modernisation of family houses and condominiums is still waiting for you, we are still in a huge gap. I am thinking, of course, about mechanical modernisation, not just window replacement and insulation, and the use and use of renewable energy at local level. All of this would be very important. Instead, what we are talking about here is, otherwise, it would not be a bad initiative or a bad idea that farmers on land, at least in the case of land, should this be at all, which cannot be used otherwise, because they cannot be included in production, or they are of such poor quality that they cannot otherwise produce solar panels, sell the electricity produced here, and thereby complement the revenues from their farming. This would be good if it were really accessible to anyone who is farming in Hungary, who owns land, and not necessarily just landowners close to the government. And, of course, it would be good not only for us to think about them, but also for all unlicensed small power plants, which are also less efficient than those which the government would want to implement at family or municipal level, and which would also be sourced, of course, through the European Union, because this is primarily about EU funding. Overall, it can be said that many times in this term and because it is one or perhaps my last speech in this parliamentary term, so perhaps they will allow me to generalize a little, there have been a lot of initiatives in energy and in other areas in Parliament, which everyone would have said at first glance, even with a professional view, that there might be something in it, yes, there is a fantasy behind the initiative, and that we could really start on a path that should be taken in the field of renewable energies, so that we can stick to this example now. It's just that there's always been some underlying intent to ruin this whole thing. When it was found out somehow that some of the money people near the government were already lining up to get their hands on the resources from this, and that the Hungarian population would not profit from it, but again a narrow layer. And any legislation coming from any area, which contained some positive initiative, has always supported our fears and our concerns, that not a large part of the Hungarian population will benefit from this, but only a narrow circle. As you can see now, once again, Lőrincek Mészáros, János Sánta and their associates, who can profit from solar energy, either in relation to the solar park of the Mátra power plant or in relation to solar power plants elsewhere, in connection with this bill. So, despite our concerns, we'd like to believe that something is going on in the government's mind in the final moments of eight years of government. If we were naive, we would think that he really started to see that renewable energy is the future and that this is the basis for the 21st century. 1st century Hungary. Unfortunately, we can see that it is only for one interest, at the last moment, that we are talking about a quick and forced bill, which is likely to be accepted by the majority group of the Parliament, but once again it is not a systematic concept, a well-structured plan and strategy that is the basis of Hungary's energy greening to use this term, borrowed from the faction to my left, because they are quite often saying this expression, which has a really great future and a great economic potential. All the more so, because as Europe's fate becomes ever more uncertain, and here we are thinking either of immigration or of other internal political and foreign policy factors, I think that in all respects it is becoming increasingly risky and risky by those who do not think that they are trying to produce most of the energy locally within the country. 100 percent of this will probably never be possible, and I am talking about electricity, of course, not our total energy consumption, because, for oil and natural gas, it is obvious that it is not possible, but we will not be able to achieve this 100% in terms of electricity use. But I think that, with a good energy efficiency investment and the foundation of energy production on domestic sources, this could be achieved with great certainty in a very good proportion within a few decades. This would require that the government not only looks at its own short-term interests, but not just that money motivates the various decisions, but that they really want to benefit the country. Unfortunately, this government has not shown this in the last eight years, but we are facing parliamentary elections. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the parliamentary elections will probably lead to a new government that we believe in and trust in Hungary, which will approach this issue from a different perspective; which will not be occupied with its own good, the filling of its own pocket, but will indeed benefit the country and the Hungarian people, whether it is about energy, economic issues or other issues. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group.
u2018-02-20-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I was overjoyed by the overwhelming majority to listen to the thoughts of my better fellow Member, because I believe that if we had discussed something with my fellow Member during the four years, it was the water escape and the energy policy, where, compared to four years ago, a substantial shift is what we have just heard in the speech. I think the situation can still be more optimistic as to the potential for Hungary to have a long-term energy policy based on renewable energy sources, but I clearly appreciate the change in which my fellow Member has shown this openness. There's a lot to talk about. Secretary of State, I don't want to be a hypocrite. I start by saying that if there was a tender fund that could apply for it, I would definitely apply for it as a farmer, because it looks like free money and something that could give the farmer practically no activity. But I don't understand why you're giving me this kind of support to make this happen. I'm sorry, I'm not here with Erik Bánki... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, but you're here. My former colleague said that the proposal is an opportunity to exploit land that is not sufficiently efficient. What's a farmland like that? So there are opportunities where, let's say, we don't cultivate land under 15 golden crowns as fields, which is perfectly suitable for lawns. What basic vegetation is doesn't mean that it can't be used. My fellow Member Bánki is right, we are not effectively using our agricultural structure, we are not using most of our agricultural land in accordance with landscape management. Nevertheless, the possibility would be possible, because in areas with weaker fertility, the restoration of lawns would also have the opportunity to make use of them. And this will be the most important moment of my speech, because I am going to argue how appropriate it is to provide solar panels for the surface cover of the land which is the most important natural resource in our country. I think we will no longer have a debate from this point of view on the fact that decentralised energy systems based on renewable energy sources should and should be justified. We will still have a debate on how much Paks is needed, because if we look at the construction of the infrastructure for energy transmission systems, then obviously a centralised energy supply system and a decentralised energy supply system require a different infrastructure. We will have significant reservations about the development of this financial background, but this direction may be good. But the fact that the soil is covered with solar cells is a concern. This is a concern in many respects, such as the construction itself, and I would like to be able to discuss this with the Secretary of State on a political and professional level, as there are many programmes in Hungary and there is a positive experience of how the possibilities of installing solar panels contribute either to local communities or to the livelihood of families. [[12.30]] The solar panel is not merely a power-generating device, it can be used without further delay as a cover structure, as a shield, as a noise protector. Putting it on additional metal structures on the soil may therefore not be the cheapest and most efficient solution, it may not be the luckiest. Imagine, Mr. Secretary, if I have, say, a livestock farm, these hods are long, because they need cattle, 50-60 meters, then why not install this system on them? Why should I plant it on the soil? And a significant part of agricultural buildings and infrastructure, seed storage facilities, dryers, fences, would create a pile of opportunities to plant this on a site that does not necessarily take away production tools, agricultural land in Hungarian. If you're looking at Solanova's Dunaújváros project, you're looking at the III. In the district, we look at the developments in this area, but also at the University of Széchenyi in Győr, there are model initiatives, all model programs that have been made as pilots to build a building, an infrastructure, if you will, by installing brownfield solar panels, which have contributed to a whole range of other tasks: buildings, as an extra thermal insulation, as a reflector, as a shield, and as a noise protector, appeared without taking away any production equipment. The most important thing that I am debating with you about this construction and this only two-page amendment to the law is how possible this is for the exploitation of land. The proposal shows that it would be possible to achieve about half a megawatt performance, and, if I remember correctly, the development should be within three kilometres of network development. This would mean that if we look at the current efficiency of solar systems, then they use areas of a half-hatch-hectare scale, so between 5,000 and 10,000 square meters, I think that's about that for a large farmer, it doesn't have to be big, so for a medium-sized producer, a 50-60-hectare producer, to sacrifice a hectare for this, it's not likely to be a big sacrifice, but for the small ones. Right in the southern part of the country, in the area of Szeged, where there are areas of fruit production and vegetable production, where they work on significantly smaller production areas, so they can produce what is a livelihood for a family in a foil tent system on an hectare. The solution there would be to use a different solution and design. So, in my opinion, the objective itself is eligible, and I'll tell you one more thing about it, because, excuse me, Mr. Secretary, it's just that I have an eye to the point that wind energy is always spoken of as bad as it would be, even though solar energy can be spread with strong financial support, while independent economic investors have applied to wind energy to do things about it. What is better for Hungarian society and the Hungarian state? If something is implemented by independent investors for independent energy production, or if there is a lot of support to be added and implemented? Obviously, I would not continue to dispute the fact that wind energy in Hungary has a substantive validity over the longer term, but as long as its economic justification allows such development to take place without State and European Union aid, it is clear that the acquisition of solar panels can only be a primary consideration if someone in this, as my better fellow Member, has a financial interest on several occasions. Basically, with all the capacity development that is going to happen here, I still have a very small concern, and this is not going to help small farmers. Basically, a large proportion of farmers under 50 hectares are suitable for life-style farming under specific conditions, but let's just say, if this is just a grassland and wants to do livestock farming, it's not even suitable. This is an important moment, because if we are talking about half a megawatt here, the Secretary of State is sure to know that this will assume such a cost of 15-20 million, which, even if an aid scheme is provided, and even if it is created to say that this will happen with a reduced loan requiring 10 percent self-power or something, it will still require a self-force of 1.5-2 million, and the little ones will not have the opportunity to do so. Now I don't want to go into why I think that the government's major estate policy can be monitored at ten points, because it's been proven from every step of the past four years, but now we have to talk about the fact that for the little ones, who most need to generate additional income from each option in their farming unit, this scheme will be less accessible at first glance. Basically, I was pleased to hear that the Secretary of State had already spoken about the possibility of an energy mix, because it is true that decentralised and mainly local systems could be very, very good at supplementing local energy supplies and creating the energy mix he was talking about. Most of the time, or especially among many others, there is a debate between us that we believe that Paks II. It would not be justified, but, in comparison to the economically viable rate, it would certainly be the right transport of energy, especially if there was an opportunity to build an energy storage system, in any case it would be possible to contribute to the economies, but not necessarily to the small ones, not necessarily where this is needed. I'd like to say one more point. Maybe the Secretary of State remembers it better, I looked here, but I couldn't find his date all of a sudden. I don't know, at the beginning of 2017 or at the beginning of 2016 the government introduced this performance fee, if I'm inaccurate, then I had to pay a performance fee for all the newly installed solar panels, I don't know exactly whether it was introduced in 2016 or 2017 and was set at zero forints. This became valid for all solar systems above 4 kilowatts. My only concern is that at present, in addition to installing systems, this performance fee is zero forints, but if it spreads and many megawatts are built on agricultural holdings, then don't suddenly jump up this performance fee by the service providers and otherwise be able to serve the goal of additional income that the government has set. So in the draft legislation, I would like to see a guarantee that all those who make use of this type of construction will enjoy, at some level, the help to keep the performance fee at zero forints in order to spread renewables, and obviously this extension would also be useful. On the basis of all these considerations that the legislation can be assessed, it can be said that the efforts of renewable energy sources are necessary, that the design of the implementation may be risky, even due to aspects that threaten the purity of public life, and that it is equally risky, based on the current structure, that only the larger and the stronger can benefit from it at some level. Obviously, the main problem I am putting forward and I will stress is the achievement of alternative use of agricultural land for this purpose. Basically, if the Secretary of State looks around, say, in the Middle East, where there is oil, yet in the desert we see vast areas of this kind with solar panels, not in productive areas. I would like to raise my voice and draw your attention to the fact that Hungary's most important natural resource remains agricultural land in the medium and long term, and that a decisive rural policy and economy can be based on its exploitation and processing. As a result, I consider that one hectare of each farm to be out of production to be risky, and for this reason, I do not want to support it. The May Other is Politics, I'm sorry, you haven't established your group position yet, but I really don't want this to be the way we support you. Last but not least, I would like to draw your attention to the Secretary of State: I would like to apologise to the President-in-Office for the concern that he mentioned in the introduction of the Secretary of State the involvement of the Chamber of Agriculture in this construction. As a farmer, as a member, I do not trust the professionalism of the Chamber of Agriculture in any way, its objectivity, basically a group of core political interests, and I would be much more relaxed if independent professional organisations made their recommendations on how the possibilities of these schemes will be implemented in the country, because this plus is a factor beyond procurement that essentially threatens the emergence of corruption within the entire system. Please, Mr Secretary of State, if you can respond to some things during a debate, I may be able to supplement them in a rejoinder if necessary. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-02-20-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I am asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. [[12.40]] I give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-115	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Let me begin by thanking Mr Vas and Mr Bánki on behalf of the Government for their support, both on behalf of the Legislative Committee and of the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association. Allow me to respond in part to opposition speeches. First, I would like to ask the MSZP fraction, which does not take part in the debate, to concentrate on those parts which are included in the proposal when a button is to be pressed during the vote. And so, we hope, they will support the proposal. It was not the subject of the proposal, nor the subject of the debate, nor the exploitation of geothermal energy in Hungary. So if I concentrate only on the parts of the speech of the Member, then perhaps the Parliament's public shares the assumption that the MSZP fraction might support the proposal. I have already had the opportunity to debate with Mr Kepli in several rounds, even in the wind energy promotion and here and now, in the energy proposal. You know, Mr President, with the elections approaching, I can accept the view that the facts do not usually disturb Members when discussing a debate, but it may not have been useless if you had read the proposal that we are debating before you comment. Because if you'd read it, there were two things that should have come out to you from the material. On the one hand, the fact that there is no aid involved in the conclusion of this investment means that neither the EU nor domestic aid instruments are used by the government in this case. Therefore, no funding for these investments is available. Others, which you mentioned as a criticism, which is also not included in the proposal, and the exclusion of this is included in the proposal that for investors, this type of support is unavailable to businesses. This opens up an opportunity, if you like, to open a quota for farmers' landowners who farm in an area of sufficient size and decide to use part of this area for the production of alternative energy in the order of one hectare, right, Mr Sallai rightly mentioned, then we will open up the possibility for them to build low capacity solar power parks, with the obligation of the network operator to build network access within a radius of three kilometres. So in this case, investor intent can also be excluded, and it can be guaranteed that only farmers can have this type of opportunity. And, of course, if a farmer chooses to do so, he must either fund the investment on his own initiative or use the credit facility offered by the Development Bank or by other credit institutions. I would also like to respond to Mr Sallai's points at some point. On the one hand, the use of land with a low golden crown is an option for this investment. If a farmer chooses to choose this solution, he can build an iron structure here, as you said, under which the land is essentially not damaged. Perhaps from ancient agricultural knowledge, thinking in the logic of crop rotation, the overbuilding of such a solar power park during a longer life cycle may not be bad for the earth. But if, where appropriate, it has areas where the overbuilding of which I think about the roofing of the buildings of the livestock settlements mentioned by you... it does not rule out this construction either. So you don't forbid anyone from installing one of these, so use the possibility of this quota to do so. The location of the installation therefore includes a number of options. On the subject of the wind energy debate, Mr President, I would like to participate only in the fact that the government did not say that wind energy could not be a good alternative energy production solution. We also said that, given the geographical conditions in Hungary, this is not the most optimal, but that we should move towards the sun instead. On the other hand, you are wrong that there were countless such private investors in Hungary who would have financed these investments with their own money, because there was no possibility of installing wind wheels in Hungary for quotas issued since 2009, if there were no subsidies for the transfer of electricity produced or for the execution of the investment itself, these investments were not made. They were implemented where there was significant State aid for the investment itself. So until it was east for construction, but there was no state aid, these did not happen. If they have not been implemented, this leads to the conclusion that these are not the most optimal alternative energy production methods in Hungary. Is that an acre out of land use that you've proposed to help farmers? We believe that this can provide substantial assistance to 3,000 farmers in different parts of the country. And subtracting an acre of land under a certain golden crown value doesn't pose such a risk to us. But once again, farmers can decide for themselves where to install this. The bill gives them only one possibility to build this access free of charge within a three-kilometer radius of the network operator. In addition to the fact that if they want to install it elsewhere, they should be able to agree with the network operator on how and how they will do so. On the nuclear issue, I think that we are having a faith dispute with each other. We believe that, on the one hand, because of the country's energy stability and the predictability of the country's energy supply, nuclear power capacities are needed in addition to renewables, there is no guarantee today that they could be replaced by renewables. And we believe that, in the long term, a healthy mix for Hungary, the fact that electricity produced in Hungary and expected to be used in higher quantities can be produced in a significant part in nuclear power plant capacities, in a much larger part than today, in renewable sources, for example, in solar energy and in a declining, completely uncreated fossil energy mix. I can accept that the LMP and the Fidesz fraction believe in something else, and it is likely that if that were not the case, we would not be sitting across from each other in Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2018-02-20-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, CXCI of 2017 amending certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The Government's referral is T/1962. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I give the floor first to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-02-20-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In February this year, the Curia, commonly known as the National Bank of Hungary, found no effect on several decisions of the MNB for formal reasons. The MNB takes the view that it has established its decision-making system in the light of legal requirements and clear legislative intentions. At the same time, according to the Curia's judgment, the MNB's management authority is not entitled to decide in their power of publication on matters of public authority, despite its legislative intention. On the basis of the semantic interpretation of the content of the word "execution" the Curia declared the decisions of the MNB to be null and void, because they were made by the head of the Financial Stability Board, acting as the MNB's body, under the authority of the head of the MNB, in the power of such publication. As many MNB decisions became uncertain as a result of the decisions, it became necessary to remedy the problem as soon as possible. Consumers cannot be kept in a state of uncertainty and there is a great need to maintain legal certainty in the financial field. According to the MNB's own statement, the Constitutional Court should be consulted in order to resolve the contradiction between the interpretation of the Curia's law and the clear legislative will, but it is necessary to remedy the uncertainty that has arisen until the Constitutional Court's decision is reached. On the basis of the bill before us, for a period of 30 days in administrative proceedings, a self-correction option would be opened, which would allow the Financial Stability Board to make its formal decision. This bill contains the necessary legislative amendments for this purpose. [[12.50]] Dear Parliament, On the basis of the reasons I have given you, I would ask you to discuss the bill that has been tabled and to support it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-20-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2017 CXCI on the amendment of certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system in the light of the rules on the exceptional procedure yesterday. The Commission submitted a bill amending Law No 19862 and submitted a report with 22 votes in favour and a unanimous decision to that effect. No amendments were tabled to the bill and no amendments were expressed by the committee. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-20-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent representatives have 8 minutes. In the first round of speeches, the key speakers will present the views of the political groups. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Commission, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On December 12, this year This House was adopted and the 2017 CXCI was announced on 18 December. Act No 1 which provided for the amendment of certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system. This amendment of the law adopted in December created the legal background for the procedures of the Hungarian National Bank. CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. As of 1 January 2018, the procedures relating to the official supervision of a financial intermediary system established by law have been excluded from the scope of the General Administrative Regulation Act. Since the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation on 1 January 2018, the Act on General Administrative Rules was repealed by Article CXL of 2004 on general rules for administrative procedures and services. under the popular name and parliamentary name of the law of Ket. The Act on Administrative Procedure, which in many cases was applicable as a background rule for general procedural rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2017 CXCI on the amendment of certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system before us. The purpose of the bill amending the Act is to allow the central bank to remedy a violation of the law in respect of its contested decisions in the course of an administrative action brought prior to 1 January 2018 on the basis of the civil order previously in force, and in the course of the renewals thereof, within a period of 30 days. This proposal aims to ensure, like Act I of 2017 on Administrative Procedure, a smooth legal protection and the right of customers to a fair trial. The proposal states that the possibility of self-correction is not open to review procedures, but can be applied to all other types of court proceedings. For example, it can be used in administrative minutes at first instance, in administrative proceedings at second instance, in default proceedings and in other non-court proceedings. The proposal provides that the lawsuits and proceedings brought before 1 January 2018 against decisions falling within the competence of the National Bank of Hungary will fall within the competence of the Metropolitan Tribunal. The reason for the provision is that the old civil order is Article XX. Public administration and labour courts shall act in matters of first instance under Chapter III of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and it is therefore appropriate to adapt the forum system to ensure uniform legislation and procedures. The proposal also states that it will be possible to repeal the contested decision instead of the annulment or revocation of the decision of the National Bank of Hungary, while at the same time taking a new decision, which will be a requirement guaranteeing legal certainty and safety of traffic. In the event of a lack of grounds for a new decision, the central bank does not need to make a new decision. For example, when the contested decision is for a specific period of time and the conditions for the new decision no longer exist or would no longer be applicable in the new circumstances. The proposal sets out two additional guarantees against the decisions taken by the central bank to achieve self-correction. New decisions should not restrict eligibility or make the obligation or penalty more burdensome. This practically means that, in the case of courts, the maximum amount of the fine may be reduced or reduced and, on the other hand, for licences already granted, the decisions or entitlements of the authorities may be quasi-reconfirmed. The proposal also settles any questions that may arise as a result of remedying decisions requiring payment obligations. It is noted that if the contested decision provides for a payment obligation, in the new decision the Magyar Nemzeti Bank may provide that the payment obligation shall be deemed to have been paid up until the payment obligation has been fulfilled as a result of the contested decision. These warranty requirements will also apply to decisions taken in the course of self-correction in legal proceedings under the Act on Administrative Procedure, which will start after 1 January 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I can therefore suggest to you that you support the adoption of the bill before us, as it also serves the government's bureaucracy reduction objectives in line with the procedural changes that entered into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-20-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. [[In the notary seat, István Szávay is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2018-02-20-123	Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to welcome the guests of the meeting. This is the most boring bill in the world, so I don't think you can find it from the outside. When it comes to the circumstances of administrative lawsuits under civil procedure, I think I would also like to have that kind of coffee if I had to look at it from the outside, but there are more interesting questions coming from what is ahead. The Government's intention to deal with this at its only parliamentary meeting in 2018 is that of the changes to the rules that took place on 1 January 2018. However, the question arises as to how far ahead this government thinks and how prepared it is that if it does not regulate these circumstances before the entry into force of 1 January 2018, it will bring them to us now, in February. I would add that I support the fact that if the MNB does not act most effectively in some way, in a 30-day period, it should have the opportunity to correct its contested decisions. But while we are at it, let me say that the framework of the general debate is not overextended, but that I should use it to talk about what I am missing, especially in terms of legislation on the MNB. We still do not see the fact that the Hungarian National Bank has a parking lot, the hundreds of billions resulting from the foreign exchange credit conversion, which is not the money of the Hungarian National Bank, but the money of the foreign exchange lenders, when and in what form it can be returned to the affected, the injured. We don't even know if the government is open to this at all, and that's not what they've said so far. We do not even know how the abuse of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, the billions that have been abducted there, the purchase of real estate, painting and art will be accountable even by you. You will obviously refer to the independence of the central bank, but in no way will it hold its place in front of me as an explanation to say that hiding behind any kind of independence is in fact free to raid the market, buy office buildings, buy paintings, arts, and large-value furniture at their own convenience. I would add, in the case of the first crisis ring, which one will be the one that will be the most difficult to market: precisely the property. In all major crises, housing prices are expected to fall. So when MNB Foundations expand their real estate portfolio, they may also have to think that they are not playing with their own pocket money, but, if necessary, with the future of Hungary. I also have to say that I wanted to ask you more than once about Fidesz economic policy intentions during the cycle. Unfortunately, a separate bill and debate has not started on this subject, but I would be very interested to know how much the policy of the MNB which is actually consciously playing to make the Hungarian forint weak is acceptable, since the weak Hungarian forint or even the Hungarian forint moving in the 300-320 HUF band is a brutal extra burden for those with foreign currency credit damage, just for those who I believe the MNB was involved in the looting. Orbán and his team say that weak forints are good because they help export, and how good this will be for exporting Hungarian companies and how much more profit they can achieve. [[13.00]] The problem is that if a minimally competent person examines this system, he sees that the export of a very large proportion of Hungarian exports is the export of multinational companies operating in our territory, the benefit of which is at least negligible for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. So it is not even true that Hungarian exports would be facilitated by the process and the artificially weak exchange rate that you have developed. For the sake of the Hungarian national economy, foreign currency credit is damaged and it is not certain that this status should be maintained. So we could, we should, we could argue a lot, I am very sorry that you are hiding from these questions. I know Mr Secretary of State as a professionally well-prepared man, so I am sure he is not hiding from all these questions. But I am also sure that although I am pushing the limits of the general debate and I am not going to continue this for much longer, this bill is fundamentally eligible, its direction, i.e. the 30-day correction option of the MNB, can be supported in relation to its various contested decisions. I'm more concerned about what's not in this bill. And we can now talk about the past 8 years, unfortunately, in the last 8 years of Fidesz, these very serious issues have not even reached the stage of discussion in the Hungarian Parliament, which you have ruled and managed. After all, they could perfectly sabotage the substantive discussion of these topics, based on a professional basis, either by two thirds or a little smaller, but still by a majority. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2018-02-20-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members if there is another speaker in this Chamber. Several people have applied, so I ask you, but the congressmen are not in the courtroom right now. Dear Parliament, As no other speaker, the consolidated general debate... [[Dr. István Józsa arrives in the room.]] The president led the meeting with sufficient slowness. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-02-20-125	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention and understanding. Sometimes the congressman has to go out, but luckily, I got back in time. That's an interesting bill. The newspapers call him lex Windisch. It happened that when the Fidesz broker scandals broke out three years ago, Buda-Cash fell one by one, and then Quaestor, Hungária Securities Ltd. said that the Hungarian National Bank was in control of the situation and effectively overseeing the financial sector. We had our concerns at the time, because the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions had been removed shortly before, which we resented. We accept that there are places in the world where the national banks, central banks, oversee the financial sector, but we have an established tradition, a system of the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, and we thought that there was a more secure legal background there. It turned out that the conversion didn't go very well. Looking back over the past period, it turned out that in recent years, the Hungarian National Bank, which has guarded over the legality of the banking sector, has taken legal decisions, more specifically the part of its financial supervision. Recently, the national banking decisions that László Windisch, Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank, has been declared in two review procedures at the Kúria are illegal and therefore nullified by the liquidation of Hungária Securities Investment and Securities Trading Zrt. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is a very embarrassing mistake on the part of the MNB, which is the controller of legality, because hundreds of decisions are being taken in the central bank every month, fines of up to billion in total, and on the basis of the judgments given in the Curia, there is a risk that all decisions listed by Vice-President Windisch could be successfully challenged, otherwise those who are likely to have been rightly affected by this punishment and reprimand. In view of this crappyness, it is inevitable that the leaders of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank were wrong, or there may be some collusion with the brokers that appear to be frauds, or they are simply incapable of carrying out the financial supervision work. As this suspicion has already been seriously raised, not only in us, but also in professional circles, when the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board, the PSZF is terminated or merged. Unfortunately, this is a very unpleasant and very bad, but ectant example. Nevertheless, Vice-President Windisch's work is highly appreciated by the National Bank of Hungary, as it has revealed anomalies, with a gross income of HUF 2.4 million per month in addition to its salary of 4.5 million per month. We read in the Bible that you shouldn't tie your mouth to a printer. 'Cause otherwise, he'll eat the barley. So I'm sure that's very justified, but the quality of the work doesn't seem to be in proportion. For posts in a company or organization linked to the central bank, if I added it here, this is a monthly allowance of around HUF 7 million, for which it would have been worth paying attention to this small mistake. In addition, Vice-President Windisch has already taken a preferential loan from the National Bank as his employer, and he would be even more committed to upholding legality. So now that this bill of correction has been put forward, the question is whether there has been conscious clumsiness in the matter, and for some reason the National Bank is secretly assisting otherwise fraudulent brokers with its work, which the court then destroys or is simply incapable of supervising the financial sector. Both are very serious problems, so we strongly recommend to the author that he carry out a full review of the supervision of the financial sector, not only in the case of skeletons falling out of the closet by such a mansion decision, but also in order to examine the whole system from the side of compliance with the surrounding legislation, so that such errors do not occur later. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2018-02-20-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. I don't see any contact. The consolidated... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I guess while I was looking at my document... Yes, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-02-20-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with the brokerage scandal, I would like to comment on this amendment to the Hungarian National Bank Act. In November 2010, I myself tabled 24 amendments to the Financial Supervision Act, which I asked for to be incorporated into the law in order to prevent banks and brokerage companies from stealing money from customers, from creating different economic anomalies or from creating financial bubbles. These amendments were then voted out by the government coalition of Fidesz-KDNP with the MSZP in the National Assembly. Later, when the so-called Quaestor scandal was discovered and the brokerage companies, Quaestor, Buda-Cash or my own constituency, Cegléden, Vice-President László Windisch, after analyzing what happened at the brokerage scandal, arrived at the Economic Commission with a five-point package of proposals. [[13.10]] In the five points, he listed the comments that the Hungarian National Bank considered to have avoided the emergence of a broker scandal and the damage of HUF 300 billion, which resulted in a consequence. My disappointment was due to the fact that all five points with which the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank arrived at the meeting of the Economic Committee had already been submitted by me in November 2010 [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right.]] , and if you had not then voted against the Fidesz-KDNP Grand Coalition, creating the amendments I tabled to the Socialists, this 300 billion forint damage would have been avoided, Hungary would not have suffered so much damage and thousands of people would have had their money. One of the very important lessons learned from this period was that the five-year audit period was required to be shortened by the otherwise approximately two dozen independent brokerage companies, because simply, as Antal Rogán said earlier, there was not a thorough investigation for 15 years, some brokerage companies could steal client money for 15 years. I would like to break a spear to acknowledge the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank on this issue. I have also tried to bring this about by bringing criminal proceedings. I myself filed an infidelity complaint and asked the Attorney General to state that the Hungarian National Bank has failed to exercise due diligence and professional control over the banking and brokerage companies. What simply happened was that they never once looked at the money the brokers had collected from their investors, and they had the collateral in the form of securities, cash, overdrafts and so on. This has never happened for many years, and, as the example of my constituency, Cegléd and the surrounding settlements shows, the unfortunate case was that according to some news reports, there were more than 25 thousand injured at Hungária Securities Ltd. only by going into a brokerage company that was supposedly controlled by the Hungarian National Bank to invest their money, and instead of being formally accepted by this company, according to all legal requirements, a Security Trade Ltd. The money was taken from the people by paper. They went there knowing that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank would guarantee their investment, but the Magyar Nemzeti Bank never looked at this brokerage company, never guaranteed it. [[Dr. Pál Völner: There was never a guarantee. That's for you to say.]] In order for a fair audit to take place, the capital should not have been lost in this case. People went there with the knowledge that the capital was safe, and they went there with the knowledge that they might not succeed in investing and will not realize real interest on their investments, but their capital is safe, because the Hungarian National Bank and the National Deposit Insurance Fund guarantee this for them. In this case, however, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has not checked this otherwise fraudulent brokerage company with due care for years, the indictment has recently been completed, and the people's money could be stolen without any problems. I would ask the pro-government majority, whether in this amendment or in the next one, to be able to make sure that people who have suffered such damage get their money back to the last penny. The last savings of many families have gone, and I myself have seen a number of tragic stories, people looking for me, older people who saved money on their graves, so that their grandchildren or children don't have to raise the cost of funerals. These people did not have hundreds of millions, but typically have one or two million forints put into a brokerage company in the hope that they can be taken seriously that the Hungarian National Bank guarantees the control of the brokerage company and the National Deposit Insurance Fund, whatever happens to the brokerage company, will compensate investors for 30 million forints. This is very sad, but it did not happen, the Hungarian National Bank did not acknowledge its responsibility in this case, and Fidesz did not acknowledge that if they had voted in favour of the 24 amendments that I had tabled, it would have been possible to avoid this unprecedentedly great damage. I think it is very important that people get their money, and, if necessary, we will take it to international forums, after the domestic legal opportunities have been exhausted, this struggle, because the people are entitled to this money, public-law criminals have been given political failure to commit this crime, and because of a political-professional failure, people have been damaged by criminals and have failed to save their lives. I ask the fellow government representatives to appreciate the damage to the people, to see that people did not take unnecessary risks, but invested their money with the knowledge that they would get it back, because the National Deposit Insurance Fund would surely pay, but this did not happen. This injustice must be restored, and people must pay every last penny of their losses. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-02-20-128	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-02-20-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I think that there have been a lot of statements or opinions that go beyond the framework of the bill before you, but let me respond primarily to these comments. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát talked about the problem of foreign exchange credentials, the solution to the problem and the central bank resources for solving the foreign exchange credential problem. Let me say that, first of all, I think that, on the proposal of the Government, Parliament has taken a number of measures from August 2010 until the last period, in which I may say that it has tried to resolve the problem of foreign exchange creditors in Europe among the first and exemplary ways. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He did his best.]] At the moment, Congressman, I must say that this effort, I think, has succeeded, is below 1% of the share of foreign exchange lenders. We were able to eliminate a systemic risk that, I repeat, reduced the share of foreign exchange lenders to less than 1%. Only those who meet the strict conditions can have foreign currency credit, such as income generated in foreign currency. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Secretary of State, you select a layer, but people now pay the same amount in HUF. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-02-20-130	I'm sorry.
u2018-02-20-131	Mr President, if you look at the measures that have been taken and what the effect has been, you can also see that some HUF 750 billion has been paid to former foreign exchange lenders in the framework of bank settlement, and you can also see the extent to which the measures have led to a reduction in the repayment after the forinting. On average, a decrease of 25 per cent was achieved. Those are the facts. The other thing I have to mention to you on this point is that the central bank, as you said, is an organisation independent of the government, making its own decisions. For example, decisions are made by the Board of Directors, the President and the Vice-Presidents, as regards the use of the central bank's results. In fact, I would like to say that, compared to the loss of previous years, the central bank currently has a profit, and I would like to say factually that this profit has been made on a number of branches, for example, its interest rate results have now turned positive, and I would like to say factually that, in addition to social responsibility, this result has increased its profit margin. And I would like to say that, for example, in 2016 he decided on a dividend payment of HUF 50 billion. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] which has been completed by the central bank in the treasury single account. After that, I feel that the substantive questions of the bill before you should be turned around and answered. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked why this bill came before the Honourable Parliament now. Because, as I said, the Curia took decisions in February to declare the decision null and void for formal reasons and I stress, not the decisions of the central bank for content, for formal reasons, and, as I said, the central bank turned against this decision to the Constitutional Court. So we are in a legal process that has not yet been fully completed, but yet this uncertainty, I think, needs to be resolved, this situation needs to be resolved, which is why the government has proposed to discuss the bill. [[13.20]] Mr István Józsa said that it is those who can attack now, after the Curia's decision, who are otherwise rightly affected by the fines. That's what I'm talking about. And I would like to say again factually that, in the light of the fact that the central bank operates completely independently of the government, I must say again factually that, if we look at the number of decisions issued by the central bank and look at the content of these decisions, we can say that, in addition to the legislative amendments initiated by the government, which aim to eliminate the abuses you have mentioned in the future, the central bank has acted very strongly against irregularities. The above mentioned Hungária Érték Zrt. I must once again state in fact that in the decisions that have been taken before the Curia, the central bank has established the highest fine that can be imposed on persons. And then the question is that if we want these strict decisions to remain in force in an uncertain situation due to the current legal rights, we can enforce them, if we want, as Congressman Józsa said, not to attack those who were otherwise rightly affected by the fine, then I think that the situation which is legally irregular must be clarified. These issues are completely independent of the central bank's relevant managers, this is the fundamental question: do we want decisions that are not questioned in their content and that are rigorous in their content, which are definitely sanctioning abuses, to be clearly enforced, whether we want to maintain this order and whether we want to strengthen it or not. If the Honourable Parliament wants to avoid a situation of legal uncertainty, to avoid repeating the attack on those who are sanctioned by the Central Bank by its resolutions, then I suggest to the Honourable Parliament that the bill submitted should be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-02-20-132	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank you, as chairman of the meeting, for your cooperation over the past four years. I wish you success in public life and in your private life. Dear Parliament, Now I'm ordering a break for 15 hours and 20 minutes. (Recess from 13.23 to 15.23) President: László Fat Note: Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Dr. István Tiba)
u2018-02-20-133	Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the importance of the Torda religious law of 1568 and the proposal on the Day of Religious Freedom follows. Presentation submitted by Gulyás Gergely fideszes, Szászfalvi László KDNP, Hiller István MSZP, Szávay István Jobbikos, Ikotity István LMP representatives and myself T/1989. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear fellow Members, Welcome to the leaders and representatives of Transylvanian Hungarian Unitarian, Transylvanian Hungarian Reformed, Transylvanian Hungarian Lutheran and Transylvanian Augustine Evangelical Church , who jointly initiated the Torda Memorial on 13 January 2018 so that the significance of the law of the 450-year-old freedom of religion in Torda would be preserved in the Parliament of Budapest and in the Bucharest and European Parliament. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 10 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 5 minutes for the Government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 5 minutes for the group's speeches. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Gulyás, who wishes to present his position together with the group of the national and Fidesz groups in a total of 15 minutes' time frame.
u2018-02-20-134	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Reverend and Reverend Lords! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. The patience of those who feel differently in the affairs of religion is so consistent with the Gospel and common sense that it seems almost terrible when people blind in such clear light. John Locke, a spiritual father of modern democratic state arrangement, wrote these lines in 1688 in the book Letter on Religious Patience. Locke, one of the dominant thinkers of his time, theoretically formulated for England the movement of religious patience and religious freedom, which more than a century ago was sanctioned by the Transylvanian arms and orders in the medieval church of the ancient town of Turdai, which had been inspired by legends in Transylvania. Ever since mankind came to consciousness, it has sought the meaning of existence, the meaning that gives existence meaning beyond finite life on earth and beyond itself. In all such quests, especially if it is based on the Scriptures, very soon almost legally find one another Creator and created. Faith is mankind's instinctive, perhaps most decisive gift of existence and consciousness. Five hundred years ago, the 16th. In the first century, more than a thousand years ago, Christian Europe was disturbed, exploring all over the world, and exploring the world of spirit and soul by humanistic thinking and reformation. Martin Luther's points in Wittenberg in 1517 were the revelations of a truly God-seeking struggling soul, with which the great Reformer sought a new and free way to choose and live the faith. The Reformation and its various branches spread like wildfire in Europe, quickly reaching Hungary and Transylvania. The era of exhilarating beliefs also involved the fact that the different churches, in their own right, did not trust the power of reason and faith enough to convince each other by relying on weapons and power. In the meantime, because of the religious wars, Europe was increasingly threatened by Ottoman conquerors to Vienna. Christian denominations struggling with one another have endangered Christendom's ability to defend themselves. In Europe suffering from religious wars and Ottoman attacks, in the ruins of medieval Hungary sinking after the disaster in Mohács, the Transylvanian Princeship found itself wedged between two realms: on one side, the Habsburgs embracing the Hungarian Kingdom and on the other side, the Ottomans threatening Europe. The wise Transylvanian orders, Hungarians, Szeklers and Saxons, Catholics, Reformeds, Evangelicals and Unitarians, led by Prince János Zsigmond and David Ferenc, founder of the Unitarian Church, realized that if they fought against each other, only the enemy could win, then Christianity and Hungarians could perish together. They recognized that they could fulfill their mission to any church only if they were aware that Christianity was never opposed to the faith of another Christian sect, but rather the faith of disbelief. Thus came the 1568 Torda Water Cross Parliament, which adopted the religious law on 13 January, giving freedom to established religions, Catholics, Reformates, Evangelicals and the then established Unitarians. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the Magna Charter, the Golden Bull was one of the first charters of the Constitution in Europe, with which nobility was already the XIII. At the beginning of the century, he also won the right to oppose the ruler if he violated the laws of the country. Werbőczy's Tripartite is an example of the European importance of keeping customary rights. And the five-party bill before us now seeks to commemorate the 1568 passed law on religion grace, which first declared religious freedom, far ahead of the spiritual and legal development of its early Europe, setting an example for the whole world to follow. Transylvanian orders have sent a message to Europe: respect for people's thinking and faith is a guarantee of peace, a prerequisite for growth and a happy life. The genre of the Memorial Law is no stranger to the practice of the parliamentary democracy of three decades behind us. The first piece of legislation adopted by the first freely elected Parliament was a commemorative law of the importance of the 1956 Revolution, but it was similar to the importance of the Millennium and the 90th anniversary of the Trianon Peace Ditate on the day of national integration that has already been filled with life by local communities. But what is provided for in the 1568 Torda Religious Law, which we wish to commemorate? The conditions of Transylvanian religious patience have been created in Transylvania, and the freedom of religion, which is one of the most important cornerstones of equal rights, has been introduced into the law. With the decision of the Parliament in Torda, freedom of religion became one of the first rights of freedom recognised by law in Western civilization. Moreover, the law mentions free preaching and the choice of preachers, and in this, the roots of freedom of speech can be discovered. [[15.30]] Law 1568 was revolutionary in the most original sense of the word. After the Congress in Torda, the landlords in Transylvania were not the masters of the souls of the people, as after the peace of religion in Augsburg in 1555. Beyond the Cuius region, eius religio principle, Transylvanian orders sanctioned that in the deepest and most important questions of human existence, no one can decide over the head of the community. This was the significance of the Torda religious law, because it is the starting point for true religious freedom. The Transylvanian orders sanctioned the protection of the faith of a thinking, free-willed man when it was said that over the heads of Transylvanians no one else can decide on the faith of Transylvanians. In Transylvania's villages and cities, the same Bible could be taught and explained according to their convictions by preachers of various confession and religios. Then, in a settlement, the towers of the temple of four denominations could show peace toward the one God, recognizing that in each of them the eternal God speaks the words of Sándor Hopenik. This includes not only the four established churches in Transylvania, but also the Saturdays, Jews, Anabaptists and Orthodoxs in peace and without particular atrocities. Thus, in the age of religious wars, Transylvania became an island of religious peace. However, the Torda law did not only ensure the free functioning of the various denominations, it did not just provide that Ferenc David's words should not be disturbed in his faith. The law of religion in Torda ends this way: "Faith is a gift of God, it is a gift of hearing, which is a possession by the word of God. This closing sentence is not just a festive manifestation of the legislation of that time. Not only did the Transylvanian legislators say that faith resulting from listening to the word is a personal relationship between God and man, but they also showed that the state cannot be indifferent, it cannot be neutral in the matter of faith. Freedom of religion is, of course, not only the freedom of creed but also the freedom to abstain from it for the individual. The State, however, needs such principles in order to have the values, the principles of the director, the foundations of which it protects, which it defends and which it protects. The state does this because it inherited it from the ancestors, because it provides proper guidance in the world and does so because it is a pledge of survival. Theodor Heuss, the first German head of state after the Second World War, said the three hills from which Europe began, the Acropolis of Athens, the Roman Capitol and the Golgota of Jerusalem. Europe and Hungary in it, the entire community of the Hungarian nation, were established in the Jewish-Christian culture circle, and this was the reason why they could survive. Personal faith is a gift and grace, but the culture, ethics and value world of religion is our common heritage, which determines the forms, laws, standards that unite our society, the absolute respect and protection of human dignity in a Christian culture. That is why József Antall was right when he said that the atheist was also Christian in Europe. When we then commemorate the day of religious freedom on 13 January each year, on the day of the adoption of the Law of the Parliament of Torda declaring religious freedom, we stress the extraordinary importance of free religious practice and the protection of our Jewish-Christian culture. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The ephemerality of the Torda religious law shows that the weight of its own importance can continue to create consensus between those who, unfortunately, do not agree on almost anything today after four and a half centuries. As the Unitarians sing, let us thank all those above us who have gathered us together. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, The last time we saw it was during the 40 - year - old communist reign of terror, how soul and nation-destructive it was to crush freedom of religion with its feet. Today, religious freedom is still one of the most threatened freedoms that are most attacked around the world. Today, Christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world, and it is also known that hundreds of Jews leave several countries of Western Europe that sometimes want to teach us a moral lesson each year because of their fear of atrocities. Meanwhile, we are consciously cutting off the Christian roots of Europe and Western civilisation, transforming our culture, which is strengthened by the tragic demographic situation in Europe and immigration to such an extent that the survival of Christian culture becomes questionable on the oldest continent. If the Christian culture is lost, our way of life based on respect for human dignity will also fail. The uniform support and submission by all factions of the bill on the importance of the Torda religious law of 1568 and the day of religious freedom gives us the hope that at times we today's feeble offspring, like the Transylvanian faculties and order, can rise above our daily debates. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-02-20-135	On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Hoppál wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-136	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill on the significance of the Torda religious law of 1568 and the day of religious freedom is being discussed in this House today. The bill of global historical importance, which represents the democratic traditions and cultural identity of Hungarians, is more than a symbolic gesture, as it is registered by the joint authors of government and opposition. According to the well-known fact, 450 years ago, on January 6th, 1568, the Transylvanian National Assembly in Transylvania closed on January 13, which thus declared the freedom and equality of the four religions, the Catholic, the Evangelical, the Reformed and the Unitarian religions, and first proclaimed religious tolerance, free religious practice based on conscience in the world. In 1054 Eastern and Western Christianity were already divided, and then five hundred years ago the churches of the Reformation separated from the common large home, but between the two dates Central European and European practices did not recognise the importance of religious patience. After the decades of religious wars between the old and the new churches, it became clear that neither party could convince the other or bring him to his knees, it was time to settle the cohabitation in some form. This is how the peace of religion in Augsburg came out of political compulsion in 1555, which, by acknowledging Lutheran-Evangelical religion, said for the first time in Europe that within Western Christianity not only one religion is possible. According to peace, every country, province, and imperial free city could choose which of the two religions it wanted to follow. [[15.40]] But their choice also dictated the religious affiliation of those under their jurisdiction, cuius regio, eius religio. Thus, within a government unit, only a religion, a church, could exist, so the right of religious freedom did not prevail on an individual level. In the western part of Europe, in northern, southern or central parts, around uniform religious blocks developed as a result. Thus, we can see the unity of the Catholicism of Italy and the Pyreneus Peninsula, the evangelical character of Scandinavia, the Catholic Evangelical identity of the German states by country, or the majority of the Reformate on the Rhine. In the eastern part of Europe, however, the religious map was far more circumstantial, especially in the Carpathian Basin, and especially in Transylvania, where several, two or three parishioners lived together several times in one settlement. In order to create a peaceful coexistence, we had to take a different path here. Since 1542, in the independent Transylvanian Princeship, in the 1550s, most of the population joined the Lutheran Reformation together with János Zsigmond. Only part of the Szeklerland, Csíkszék and some of the families of the lords remained. The 1557 Parliament declared Lutheran Lutheran Evangelical religion a legal religion and granted him the same rights as the Catholics. When the Hungarian population and the prince joined the Calvinist movement of the Reformation, the 1564 Congress of Torda declared Calvinism, the Reformed religion, an established religion. The third branch of the Transylvanian Reformation was formed when part of the Reformeds converted as unitarian religions to antitrinitarian doctrines, and under the influence of his court priest Ferenc Dávid, Prince János Zsigmond himself did the same. This 1568 Parliament in Torda was then held a new Parliament in Torda, which, in addition to the Lutheran, Calvinist tendency, has now evened unitarian religion, and has indeed been the first to proclaim religious tolerance in the world. At the meeting held at the temple in Torda, he said, "When the preachers preach the gospel in their places, let them preach every man according to his understanding, and if the village wants to buy it, it is good that no one should force the soul of u to rest on it, but to hold a preacher whose teaching is pleasing to him." Therefore, let no man offend the preachers, let no man speak ill of the religion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Four hundred and fifty years ago, the Parliament of Torda said the freedom and equality of four religions: Catholicism, Evangelicalism, Reformation and Unitarianism. State religion no longer existed; the ruling authority was superior to that of his churches, but he no longer had the right to distinguish between them in any way. The territorial principle did not apply either, so everyone could decide from here on out which religion they were following. In Europe, Hungary, Transylvania, became an island of religious peace. The wording of the Torda Parliament on faith as a gift from God already predescends the thinking of later centuries, which derelicts religion from national or political affiliation, and respects all beliefs as human rights. It should be noted that human rights will only be governed by Article XX. They are declared by the universal declaration of human rights adopted on 10 December 1948. Dear House, We respectfully bow to the historic achievement of our ancestors so that congregations, communities, choose their own preachers, their own religion, on the basis of their own beliefs and free choice. According to the religious laws of the Torda religious law, Orthodox religious communities could practice their religion, and later, even during the period of historical Hungary, orthodox also won its established religious status. I am convinced that the principles proclaimed by the Parliament in Torda have also contributed to the future redemption of the Jewish church. By all this, Transylvania has become a land of religious freedom and religious patience, providing refuge for those who have driven away from other countries. The law of religious freedom, regardless of our denomination and nationality, is the proud heritage of all of us, and it also makes us aware of our responsibility. The religious self-determination of the community can be seen as a prelude to modern democracy, which, in the course of historical development, has been generally recognised in Western civilization, and is, until today, a fundamental criterion for modern state arrangements. According to the above, the right to free religious practice guaranteed by the Torda Law is rightly considered to be one of the core values of Christian Europe. In view of all of this, the Torda Religious Law is a national value of high importance, which the National Assembly remembers to declare as the day of freedom of religion on the 13th of January. Ladies and gentlemen, The government supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-02-20-137	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your comment. I note that there is an expression in the Hungarian language, the academic twenty minutes. Now we're gonna have to introduce the Secretary of State for five minutes, which is at least seven minutes. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Excuse me.]] We count the overshoot in the time saved by Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Now the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented, and I ask Imre Vas, the rapporteur of the committee, to do so.
u2018-02-20-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that, under the derogation from the adopted house rules, yesterday the Legislative Committee discussed T/1959. The bill on the significance of the Torda religious law of 1568 and the day of religious freedom, submitted by the Committee with 26 votes in favour. I am convinced that it is an important guarantee of the survival and belonging of a nation to commemorate the most important events of our common history from time to time, which is the explicit purpose of the bill before us. The commemoration does not make us forget the noble act, but the goal is not only that we should not forget, but that the growing generation should not forget, and that it should know what is happening, our history. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to give us your support, let us all vote, regardless of party standing, on the bill before us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-139	Thank you. The speeches will now take place within a five-minute time frame. I give the floor first to Mr István Hiller, member of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-140	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Guests! We do not simply remember and celebrate an event of 450 years ago, but a way of thinking in Transylvania, the first days of Tordan 1568, between 3 and 13 January was not an experiment of itself, which was then in some way dead or actually crumbled, perhaps trampled, but we are talking about something, honourable representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, which was a successful solution. We are so rarely able to highlight from Hungarian history events, mentality, thinking that are not in itself, not just in that year, in the decade, but in the centuries, and indeed in the long term, a successful solution. I must say to you that it is a great thing to think that the predecessors who made this decision there in Torda have made a decision from which the decisive thinkers of a modern Europe, which is being transformed, have not only drawn but built. When, after two decades, Justus Lipsius, in Germany, for the first time, formulates the content of sovereignty what a state needs to be in order to be truly independent, sovereign, respected by others, he goes back to the decision that was made in the church of a small town in Transylvania. [[15.50]] When three quarters of a century later, Hugo Grotius, a father of international law to this day, in his De jure belli ac pacis, about the right to war and peace; I note that everywhere in the world where there is high quality legal education, it builds and uses in this book published in Paris all the thinking, all the content that was formulated by Transylvanian arms and orders in 1568. Therefore, I think it is right, and I and our faction are joining the community that has heard and heard the request and proposal of the Unitarian Church of Transylvania that the various fractions of the Hungarian Parliament, representatives arguing with each other in different ways, all Hungarians and Europeans, all of us, together with this event, and even this long-term successful solution, the reality of religious tolerance which has been enshrined in the law at the Torda National Assembly, will be shared with us for 450 years. It took Europe eighty years, honourable Members and Members, just eighty years, when a great, as was said at the time, peace closing the first world-destructive war in 1648, peace in Venezia was made in two German cities, Münster and Osnabrück. The peace that, besides many other things, was undoubtedly one of the pillars of modern Europe. Lipsius, Grotius, and others, not only are theoretical thinkers, but in practice, the insinuation of rivals who had previously argued with each other and even fought against each other held the order of the Torda Parliament in 1568 as their predecessor and spiritual magistrate. They called it pax optimized rerum, we could simply say the best peace, actually the best arrangement of things. We have just started an election campaign, honourable pro-government and respected opposition representatives. Let's face it, religious patience and patience in general have to come between those who, by the way, think in different ways, because those who think in the same way, although it is not uncommon to argue there, can come to an agreement. The thinking that Torda has introduced in Hungarian and European history, I am sure that, by the way, we, all of us, are connected in different ways, with Hungarians and Europeans sitting in different factions. That is why I am joining in and suggesting that we vote together on this right bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-141	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, representing Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-142	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Guests! We are now faced with a bill that commemorates a parliamentary decree that is unique in its kind and predates. 450 years ago, in Torda, Transylvanian orders wisely and peacefully decided to prevent a bloody religious-based civil war that had already caused so much pain and suffering on the western part of Europe. They made a firm, wise, forward-thinking decision, since the little Transylvanian Princeship between the Ottoman and the Habsburg giant could not afford to become the scene of religious battles, weaken or even bleed himself out as guardian of the Hungarian state that fell at Mohács. Many say, trying to reduce the importance of Torda, that the Transylvanian order could not have decided otherwise. However, that is not true. They could have thrown each other on a sword, for example, in a different Gospel interpretation in January 1568. However, it is likely that István Báthory will never be elected king of Transylvania, Gábor Bethlen could not have made a fairy garden from Transylvania, and perhaps II. Ferenc Rákóczi, our head of control would never have been born. Dear Parliament, Even contemporary historians knew that a historic decision had been made. On the Iberian Peninsula, the inquisition, which hindered scientific progress and economic development, flowed to Transylvania as scientists, craftsmen and artists persecuted in the rest of Europe, boosting the spiritual and economic life of the smaller Hungarian country. When thousands of Protestants were murdered in Paris on the night of St. Bartholomew's 1572, the Roman Catholic, Evangelical, Reformed, or even unitarian brothers could praise the Lord in Transylvania just half a century before the beginning of the 30-year war that destroyed a quarter of the population of the German-Roman Empire. Dear Parliament, I believe that, and my fellow Members have pointed out this, that, in the political spirit that was completely divided before the elections and in the light of the exercise of power so far, it is particularly fresh to see that such an important proposal will be adopted by consensus, with the support of all parties, as a joint proposal, as we hope. We have to add, it wasn't always like that. For example, remember the proposals for a decision on the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, the day of the Hungarian sporadic, or II. On the Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi, which, although of similar importance, had similar symbolic powers, some considered it better to expropriate them. That is not the case now, however, I should like to thank President László Fat. We, on the part of Jobbik, will pursue this consensus-seeking policy on the most important issues, and we will encourage all of us to do so as a good example for the future. I am particularly proud, by the way, to be one of the authors of this proposal, and I regret that I could not be present at the holiday service itself, since I have not been able to enter the territory of Romania for years. Dear Parliament, Finally, I think it is important to point out that the proposal before us tries to place in international space the Torda order adopted 450 years ago, far ahead of its time, and which includes an important part of our common Christian and Christian values today. But if we are to quote this outstanding date in Transylvania's history, let us not forget that it would be equally important to convey to the international public the message that Gyulafehérvár's promises in 1918 are still unrequited, because Transylvania's Hungarians still have no complete freedom. It is also true of the Torda order, which was already quoted by my fellow Fidesz colleague, Sándor Hopeik of Transylvania wrote in January 1920 in his poem Eternal Fire, feeling the approach of the cruel and unjust Trianon dictatorship. Sándor Reményik then cried out: "I'll give you a flame, I'll get it from afar, like a heavenly comfort, / a flame that boils and stitches... " Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-02-20-143	Thank you. István Ikotity will now speak on behalf of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Guests! There are many religions and creeds, but God is one. There are also many kinds of freedom of religion, but for us, the Torda is of paramount importance. [[16.00]] Not only because it was said here, but also because it belongs to Hungarians; we can be proud of it. Think about the age. Think of it as a new age in Hungary, a country torn into three parts a few decades after the Mohács emergency, total desperation socially, politically, territorially; the country in pieces, morally as well. Think about it, one of his saviors is the father of János Zsigmond in the least. In this despair, in this weakness, such a great thing was born, uniquely, for the first time in the world. Why am I saying all this? I would like to refer to the sentence that came into the text of the law by personally objecting and trying to avoid it. And this is the first sentence that says that God is the master of history. It's just a semantic comment on my part. I think it's a theological term, no legal text. And that I said this, as I referred to the age that it was, how difficult it was, might help those who are watching this mediation to understand it. As we read in Paul's letter, God can make virtue out of weakness. I think that's what this is all about. It is an uplifting and honour to be a part of this proposal. Thank you very much, and thank you, Mr President. My party supports this bill, and I very much hope that for many people it will be clear what it means, how important it is, in the long term it will be forward-looking and a value that is understandable to everyone. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor.
u2018-02-20-145	Thank you. Now I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, a member of the KDNP, as the last in the list of speakers of the parties. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-146	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Reverend and Reverend Lords! For the first time in the world in Torda, 450 years ago, it was said that even in faith in God, not everything and everyone is the same, the world and Transylvania in it are diverse, which is intertwined and complementary to each other in order to get to know the good news as fully as possible. We know that the fight for religious freedom was an important chapter in the many centuries-old struggle for human rights. For us, this is the 21st. It follows from the dignity of man in the century that we respect and value the religious freedom of all people and the religious freedom of the Community itself. However, this was not the case before Torda's religious peace. Before Torda's religious peace, there was neither individual nor community religious freedom in the world. However, Transylvania, setting an example for the whole world, declared religious peace between denominations. This was a huge breakthrough, ladies and gentlemen, on the limitations of the age spirit at that time. Remember, the peace of religion in Augsburg, concluded in 1555 in the German-Roman Empire, only said that the one who owns the land belongs to religion. So the subjects had to follow the prince's religion. Thus, the breakthrough that declared freedom to preach and freedom of conscience was outstanding. It was outstanding even if, after 450 years, today's lurkers say that the Torda decision of the Transylvanian Parliament declaring religious peace interpreted the right to religious freedom not as the right of the individual, but only as Community law. But, ladies and gentlemen, how could you have interpreted it differently then and there? They need to know that the world of that time was in the era of religious wars, and under these circumstances Transylvania became an island of peace, whose statehood was built on the principle of equality between the three nations and the four established denominations, based on the Torda decision. Ladies and Gentlemen, The provisions set out in the Torda Act are seen as a prelude to modern democracy, as one of the fundamental values of Christian Europe, by which religious practice is no longer an obligation for the community, but freedom that can be freely elected and lived. Ladies and Gentlemen, Unfortunately, Europe has lost its Christian faith and values to a significant extent today, even though a few decades ago, the founding fathers of the Union, Adenauer, Schuman, and Gasperi boldly and wholeheartedly said that Europe would or will not be a Christian. In doing so, they said that denying God does not help to avoid tensions or even strengthen them specifically, because it weakens the tissues of society, and this brings increasing distrust, which ultimately leads to the growing fragility of European civilization. Unfortunately, this has been achieved today by the fact that the threat from outside Europe has found a vacuum in our continent's faith. And the emptiness, as you know, is always filled with something. But remember, it is never too late to respond to the call of God's word and return to the roots in order to build a new, strong, Christian Europe, where what you are worth is not on the thickness of your wallet, but on your spiritual wealth; on the spiritual wealth and freedom that our people in Torda thought was so important 450 years ago. Remember, we are the covass of hope in Europe. Remember, too, that the Torda religious law is a high-profile national value. The KDNP parliamentary faction therefore supports the bill, and also supports the Parliament's declaration of 13 January as the day of religious freedom. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-02-20-147	Thank you. On the assumption that the fraction does not want to take advantage of the limited time left, the consolidated debate is closed. As far as I know, on behalf of the authors, no one wishes to comment. Thus, as Speaker of the House, I have only the obligation to thank the Members and Parties associated with the presentation of the law for the creation and forthcoming adoption of the law. But first of all, on behalf of all of us, I thank our Transylvanian brothers for their initiative and for allowing us to participate in a worthy commemoration of this historic moment in the historic place. Of course, this is not only a thank you to the high-reverend and high-reverend gentlemen and their communities, but also to Archbishop György Yakubinyi and our Catholic brothers, whose cooperation and support have enabled a worthy commemoration of one of the national achievements of our history of universal importance. Thank you very much, God bless you. (Applause) Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. It follows the T/1959 on the significance of the Torda religious law of 1568 and the day of religious freedom. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill was discussed by way of house rules. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. [[16.10]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1959. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote. Let's hear it when the results come out.]] I declare that the House has unanimously adopted the Memorial Law on the Torda Religious Law by 142 votes in favour. It follows a line from Poland's stand against Brussels' pressure, H/1981. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. Welcome to III. His Excellency, Mr Jerzy Snopek, Poland's extraordinary and authorized ambassador. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution was discussed in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/1981/7. and a summary report by H/1981/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/1981/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes to 13, with no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I'll ask the House of Honor if H/1981 will accept it. The text of the proposal for a decision, as amended by the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the amended proposal for a decision by 114 votes to 13, with no abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Next up is T/1968 on the development of facilities necessary for the implementation of the Hungarian Open ATP World Tour tennis tournament in Budapest. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. In accordance with our decision yesterday, this bill is also dealt with in exceptional proceedings by the Parliament. T/1968/5. and its summary report, T/1968/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1968/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The draft amendment was adopted by 131 votes to 11, with 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1968. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the law by 130 votes to 15, with two abstentions. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/1963 amending Act No. Final vote of bill No 1. As we decided yesterday, this bill is also discussed in an exceptional procedure by Parliament. There has been no amendment to the proposal, and we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1983 accepts it. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the law by 132 votes in favour, with 15 abstentions, without voting against. CXCI of 2017 amending certain laws concerning the official supervision of the financial intermediary system. T/1962 amending Act No. Final vote of bill No 1. This bill is also dealt with in exceptional proceedings by the Parliament. There was also no amendment to the proposal, and we are now deciding on the text that has been tabled. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1962. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The law was adopted by 131 votes to five, with 11 abstentions. Next up is the 1994 XLV on war care. T/19773. Final vote of bill No 1. In accordance with our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with by Parliament by way of house rules. There was no amendment to the proposal, so we will decide on the text submitted. I ask the House whether it accepts T/19773. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted unanimously by 145 votes in favour. Dear House, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by independent Members of the Tóth Bertalan, MSZP and Szabó Timea on the election procedure XXXVI of 2013. T/1994 on the amendment of Act T/1974 on the necessary amendment to the Act to create a mandatory Prime Minister-designate debate. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal for inclusion in the series was rejected by the House by 35 votes in favour, 112 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by Members of the Tóth Bertalan and Harangozó Tamás MSZP on the protection of the fair procedure and the transparency of public subsidies in order to eliminate the enrichment of fidesz oligarchs from public money, T/19594. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The bill was not included in the series of articles by 33 votes in favour, 113 votes in favour, without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in the series of subjects of the H/18293 on the conclusion of the Istanbul Convention by independent Members and fellow Members of Zsuzsanna Szelényi. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House did not include the proposal for a resolution with 31 votes in favour, 114 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Act 51/A. Paragraph 1 of Article 13 is replaced by the following: I have ordered a reduction in the due fees of representatives of Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy LMP, acting under my presidential authority (paragraph 6 of the Act). Members asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions, but the committee did not agree in either case. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Act, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decisions of the Speaker. [[16.20]] In view of this, the house rules are 148. (2) I have tabled proposals for a decision under paragraph H/1986. and H/1964. in figures, the same content as my previous decisions to reduce Members' due fees. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for decisions, the related decisions of the Speaker of the House, the relevant requests made by its representatives and the decisions of the immunity committee have been made available on the website. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, no proposals or Commission reports may be submitted to amend the proposals for decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of a Member, the decision of the Speaker is annulled by the Parliament, the due fee of the Member is not reduced, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall terminate the proceedings brought against him. The Speaker's decisions on the reduction of the fee shall be decided by Parliament without discussion, separately for each representative. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker to reduce the due fee of Dr. Bernadett Szél is maintained in the scope of the H/1986. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Speaker's decision was maintained by 112 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Dr. Ákos Hadházy is maintained in the scope of the H/1986. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker by 111 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the text of the adopted decisions on representatives of Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy.
u2018-02-20-148	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act, hereinafter referred to as Ogytv. 51/A. Acting under the powers of Dr. Bernadett Szél and Dr. Ákos Hadházy, Parliamentary Members of the Ogytv. 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Bernadett Szél reduced the due fee of the President of the Parliament, OE-40-1076-1/2017. OE-40/1077-1/2017. As a result, Dr. Bernadett Szél's due fee will be reduced by HUF 432 107, the due fee of Dr. Ákos Hadházy will be reduced by HUF 100,000.
u2018-02-20-149	Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-02-20-150	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I welcome you all with love. I ask you to take your seats so that we can continue our work today. A joint general debate on the draft legislation authorising organisations to support migration, on the draft legislation on detention of aliens and on the draft legislation on the immigration financing levy will follow. Government referrals T/19776. and T/19774, and T/19775. can be accessed by numbers on the House's IT network for all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, if you do not have a task in this House that would call you to remain here, please leave the Chamber so that the expoes can be heard without delay. First, I give the floor to Mr. Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, the author of the bill, who will speak from here on the platform. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-02-20-151	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mass immigration has brought serious security risks to Europe. You know, public safety has deteriorated across Europe, and the threat of terrorism has also increased. However, this process has not stopped. We are talking about a long process and NATO reports that about 60 million people will arrive in Europe by 2020. Migration is therefore a serious problem, and we must draw attention to the fact that in the short term it has a negative impact on our security, our long-term well-being and our long-term Christian culture, it will undermine our culture. The Hungarian government has always taken this problem seriously. From 2015 we spent 270 billion forints on border protection. The Hungarian government has built the fence along our southern borders, we have created the legal border barrier, we have also ordered the live force, Hungary's 1100 km Schengen border is surrounded by Hungarian police and soldiers, protecting the Hungarian border. We would also like to thank them for their work through Parliament. [[16.30]] The Hungarian Government also attempted to amend the Constitution, the Fundamental Law. We very much regret the failure of the amendment of the Fundamental Law to resist, not vote, by opposition representatives, except for a very important legal instrument from border protection, from the protection of the country. In addition, the Hungarian government is acting continuously and regularly in European forums to protect Hungary, preventing resettlement quotas, preventing compulsory resettlement quotas. As I said, 270 billion forints is what the border protection has cost so far. It is no coincidence that Hungary wants to demand half of this amount from the European Union. We believe that Hungary is defending not only Hungary's borders, but also the borders of the European Union. Security is a value, a value in which there is no compromise, so we stand firm for Hungary's protection. All necessary measures must be taken, and we will take all necessary measures in the future. However, attention should also be drawn to activities that are dangerous for Hungary. They are dangerous, because the promotion of immigration is contrary to the interests of the Hungarian nation, and it is also against the interests of the state. Accordingly, action should be taken as decisively as possible in the interests of the country's security against activities which undermine national security. In addition, the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament have an obligation to enforce the interests of the Hungarian people, and it is also their duty to enforce the will of the Hungarian people. At the national consultation on the Soros plan, 2 million 300 thousand people gave their views. So many Hungarian people had a unanimous will, they have a unanimous opinion, expressing that they do not want Hungary to become an immigrant country, and they do not want immigration at all, especially not illegal immigration into the territory of Hungary. Of course, we are aware that György Soros and the organisations he finances will not let it go. European bureaucrats who support György Soros or who are supported by György Soros will also not give up their own fight, their own struggle. We have to fight, too. We have to fight. However, in order for our struggle to succeed, we need stronger legal weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you, three legislative proposals are part of the Stop Soros legislative package, together able to stop the organizing, supporting and financing activities. By adopting the legislative package, it will be much harder to organise immigration, support and finance in Hungary, and we will be able to stop these organisations. The Hungarian government also held a social debate and social consultation on the draft law. In the framework of this, 600 substantive comments were received, and given that our most important task was to convey the opinion of the people, the Hungarian government considered these proposals, and in a firmer way, as the Hungarian people wanted to present this legislative package. Ladies and gentlemen, This package of laws consists of three laws. The first law concerns the authorisation of organisations to support migration. Contrary to the previous plan, which would only require registration for these organisations, the proposed legislation in a more stringent form would now link this activity to a permit from the Minister of Interior. Thus, by adopting the bill, this will be an activity subject to authorisation in Hungary; therefore, instead of registration, authorisation. This permit can be issued in Hungary by the Minister of the Interior. There is, of course, an appeal against the decision of the Minister of the Interior, but only for procedural reasons, in the event of a flagrant infringement of procedural law. Organisations applying for authorisation should undergo a national security investigation according to the bill. This requires the Minister of the Interior to obtain the opinions of the national security services, including the opinion of the Constitutional Protection Office, the Information Office and the Military National Security Service. In order to establish this rule, we must touch it, we must also amend the national security law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a fundamental provision, i.e. two thirds of the Members of Parliament will be required for the adoption of this amendment. However, the Minister of the Interior must not only examine the application from a national security point of view, but also examine whether the organisation which applies for it or submits the request for authorisation will continue its activities with funds from abroad. This investigation shall be carried out by the National Tax and Customs Office. How will the procedure proceed according to the bill? At the initiative of the procedure, the organisation which falls within the scope of the law shall be obliged. The Minister of the Interior has 180 days to examine the request. This deadline may otherwise be extended. In the event that the Minister of the Interior rejects the application, a new application may not be made within one year. Of course, no legislation which does not have adequate sanctions can operate, and therefore the law imposes an appropriate sanction on the activity carried out without authorisation. So if a person organises, supports or finances migration without a permit, the prosecutor can take action against him. In the first step, taking into account the principle of gradualness, the prosecutor warns and also takes action to delete the tax number. In the second step, you can impose fines. This rate can range up to HUF 1 million and up to HUF 800,000. In the third step, if the organisation does not stop its activities, the prosecutor may appeal to the court and may request that the organisation be removed from the register, i.e. the termination of the organisation. This law shall enter into force on the 16th day following its publication. Organisations, entities governed by the law, have 90 days to submit their application to the Minister of the Interior in order to continue the activities subject to authorisation. In the event that an organisation receives money to support immigration from abroad, it is obliged to notify this to the NAV within three days. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, the legislative package, Stop Soros, contains another law, and this law is about the immigration financing levy. This Act regards social responsibility as the primary priority, i.e. organisations which support or finance this activity, which falls within the scope of the first Act, must pay a 25% levy on the amount of money they receive from abroad. Thus, the rate of the levy is 25 per cent and must be paid by any organisation falling within the scope of the law, whether or not the licensee carries out an activity with or without a licence. The money thus received is part of the public finances, so it will be included in the budget, but this amount is a fixed amount of money, which means that this amount should be allocated to border protection, border protection costs, given that the activities of these organisations will specifically increase this cost, the country's cost of border protection. [[16.40]] The deadline for the declaration shall be the end of the year and this amount shall be paid into the country's budget by 30 June the following year. In this case, too, the NAV carries out the tax administration tasks related to the levy. In two cases, the law also provides for the possibility of exemption, i.e. exemption from the obligation to pay taxes: if the organisation proves that it does not use this money to organise migration or that it makes humanitarian aid out of the aid. In these cases, therefore, the amount of money received from abroad is not subject to the levy. In the event that the organisation fails to fulfil its obligation, it may be liable to pay up to twice the amount of the levy. The detailed rules, the rules of procedure, will be laid down by a government decree, i.e. the law empowers the government to lay down detailed rules, procedures and procedural rules in a government decree. The entry into force of this law shall be the 31st day following its publication. Dear Parliament, The above two legislative proposals relate to organisations supporting migration. In addition, there are people who organise or support the migration process in person. We must also act against them, and that is why we presented our bill on the institution of detention of aliens as part of the Stop Soros legislative package. This therefore covers persons, Hungarian and foreign citizens, not organisations. Persons who violate the interests of Hungarian national security may be kept away from Hungary's external, 1100 km long Schengen borders in an 8 km band. The law defines in detail what constitutes an activity contrary to the interests of national security or endangering the public interest. It is considered that, in order to ensure international protection, the behaviour of the person concerned in connection with the migration situation, the third-country national facilitates or provides financial or financial support to the territory of Hungary through a secure third country, thereby endangering Hungary's public security, public order or public health. This type of procedure is treated by the law as a matter of foreign police authority. If it is not a Hungarian citizen, the Minister has the right to extend the detention of aliens to the entire territory of the country. The law also sets out the exceptions against which the detention of aliens is not applicable. For example, the MEP, the Member of Parliament or the person who has legal representation in proceedings under the Asylum Act. The crisis caused by mass immigration is when this type of detention can be ordered. The duration of the order is 6 months. However, if the government prolongs the crisis situation caused by mass immigration and so decides to extend it, the person concerned may request a review of the decision taken previously. The detailed rules and procedural rules will also be laid down in a government decree. Dear Parliament, This package of laws therefore includes fundamental provisions. Without the adoption of the fundamental provisions, without the entry into force of the fundamental provisions, this package of laws will not achieve its purpose. But I ask you, fellow Members, whether we can count on the opposition that has constantly denied and denied the problem of immigration; it denies and denies the existence of quotas [[Adam Mirkóczki: You're lying now!]] ; denied and denied the existence of the Soros plan; constantly attacked border protection and attacked the construction of the fence. However, we will do everything we can to protect Hungary; the Soros plan cannot be implemented in Hungary, its implementation must be prevented. We cannot be introduced in Hungary, because we, fellow Members, Hungary are the first. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-20-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the keynote speakers will be held in the first round. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Németh Szilárd. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-02-20-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State presented the provisions of the bill in detail. He described the assets that this Stop Soros legislative package of three laws would like to apply in order to protect Hungary from the insane idea we used to refer to as the Soros Plan. Allow me to personally confess to you here how proud I am and how pleased I am to be the lead speaker of this bill on the part of Fidesz. I feel very honored, just because it is the bill that we will make our decision after the elections, after 8 April, following the decision of the Fidesz-KDNP. If you like, we will place the adoption of this package of laws in the hands of the Hungarian people, as on 8 April they will decide who will be seated on the left and right side of the horseshoe. And people will decide who's position, which Members' position, which parties' position on this very serious issue, is a very serious issue, and the Hungarians, but I think not only Hungary, but the whole of Europe's future for at least 50 to 100 years. My point would also be related to this, as we are not only dealing with the issue of migration here in Budapest, in the Hungarian Parliament, but also simplifying the Soros plan on this issue of migration, but it is clear that in Brussels, and now in New York, the UN is working on a new migration package. We represent the position of the Hungarian people in both places, because let's be honest, what was formulated in the Stop Soros legislative package is only novel in its instruments, but the spirit of not wanting to become an immigrant country is that we do not want to live under the influence of a mixed ethnicity, mixed religion, especially Muslim religion in Europe, because we have Christian roots, as Gergely Gulyás, my fellow Member, said in connection with the bill on religious peace, is not new. And it's nothing new in Brussels or New York. On Brussels, the Hungarian Government has prepared a resolution, since in Brussels it is said that migration is a good thing, it is good for Europe. From Brussels, they say that Europeans must give up the commitment of children born or born in their own families, instead bring in people from the South, Africa and Asia as busy hands, voters. Let them in, as György Soros otherwise demands, as he virtually puts it every day in the Soros plan. [[16.50]] We must face this in its entirety, because we cannot accept this. Basically, we say that immigration, migration is not a good thing; it cannot be raised to the level of human rights; it cannot be interpreted as a good cause for Europe. We say that if people living south of us, southeast, are in trouble for war or other reasons, then we, the rich Europe, must go there and help these people there, and Europe's primary task is to protect its borders at all costs and by all means. Solidarity, European solidarity, the essence of the European Union must be exercised among the free nations of Europe, and we must be in solidarity with those who do more to preserve Europe, European culture, European roots, if we so wish, European prosperity and European competitiveness. So the direction of solidarity must be reversed, and not as some Brussels bureaucrats and some Brussels MEPs and George Soros say every day and try to shove it down the throats of the European people. We are the same with this UN package, with its migration package. It was absolutely amazing how they built this whole thing. What I can see, and what I can see, was that politicians from Soros's pocket were saying something, trying to squeeze out those who are thinking on the contrary, and already projecting what should actually be adopted, appear, just as in Brussels, in a legally questionable way, proposals that clearly build migration as a good thing, as a desirable thing, as a thing to be supported, and, moreover, such nonsense will come to light that, if we do not support this migration process, if we do not support what these people have decided to do, then there will certainly be a global crisis and an economic crisis on the world, because so-called sustainable development will also be in crisis. We have also given the answer to this, it is quite clear: we want to participate in the development of these materials, we do not leave the committee that deals with this, because then they can make all the decisions without us. At the State Department, we have a 24-point proposal, so let me tell you a few here about the Stop Soros Act. First of all, it must be said that migration is a bad and dangerous process, migration is no good for anyone, it is no good for those who risk their lives trying to get to other countries I think every day we see how many and how many people are lost at sea, how many boats are covered, which are malicious or not given, God, well-intentioned people are trying to get to Europe, here, I am talking about the cooperation of criminals and so-called NGOs, misguided NGO members, and it is not good for those who will have to suffer these people's entry. We know well about Hungary from 2015 what happened in the country in 2015; only two numbers are allowed: nearly 400 thousand people crossed the Western Balkans route here, of which only 170 thousand were able to register the system with technical and border protection tasks at that time, 230 thousand people so missed us in their entirety, because at the request of the European Union we could not concentrate on border protection tasks, we did not have the means to stop them. Eastern railway station, highways, robbing farms, that's a good sign of this wave. But if we look at what is happening in Spain, Italy, Greece, or don't give us God, here, not far from us, in Serbia, and also in Hungarian populated areas, then I think that our answer is quite clear. It follows that every country has a duty to protect its borders, because migration poses a national security risk, a serious national security risk, either in terms of economic life, social care, but if I mention crime and the threat of terrorism, then everyone can see that it threatens the entire European culture, total European public security, the safety of citizens. And it follows that we cannot be partners in anything, so the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian people are not partners in destroying this European civilisation in its entirety, and we cannot support the elimination of our religious and cultural identity in Europe, here in Hungary. For this reason, we have also submitted the Stop Soros legislative package, and I would like to stress once again to everyone that we believe that the right solution is that if the new Parliament decides after 8 April, it is fair to put the possibility of making such an important decision in the hands of the people. We will have to decide whether Hungary will remain a Hungarian country on 8 April or if those who want to make it an immigrant country will be decided on 8 April whether the country will have a strong government for which Hungary will be the first, or a weak, extorted government, which will serve foreign interests, and the plans of Hungarian people or of George Soros will prevail in Parliament, so the choice, I think, is quite clear to everyone. I would ask all Members to accept this, to try to move with this idea of the Stop Soros package against the Soros plan, and, if possible, I would also ask the opposition, although I do not know if I can ask them to do so, because they are not sitting here very much to consider their decision on this issue, and they will support the spirit of the Stop Soros legislative package and the use of the tool system contained therein. Thank you all very much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group did not speak as a speaker. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey, who is speaking from here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-02-20-155	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the Stop Soros legislative package, Hungary intends to draw another line of defence. In addition to the construction of the border closure and the adoption of the legal border closure, Stop Soros is another protection against Hungary becoming an immigrant country. Ladies and Gentlemen, The quota ultimatum of the Belgian Prime Minister, György Soros's recent visits to Brussels, the UN migration package and the recent attacks in Brussels against Hungary are well marked by the fact that there is a very serious threat that the Soros plan will be carried out through the Brussels decision-making process and that migrants will be relocated through mandatory quotas in Europe. Preventing this is the goal of Stop Soros. Ladies and Gentlemen, The submission of the legislative package was preceded by a social debate, as the Secretary of State said, more than 600 substantive comments were received on the Stop Soros legislative package. [[17.00]] The government then submitted the legislative package to Parliament in a more stringent form. Strictly because the Hungarian people do not want Hungary to be an immigrant country, but they want them to continue to live freely and safely, and they also want the government to act more strictly against those who organise and finance migration. The Stop Soros legislative package strikes immigration organisers and funders with three strikes. The first blow is that the bill binds any activity which organizes, supports or finances migration to the permission of the Minister of the Interior. Thus, unlike the previous draft, the package of laws submitted no longer provides for registration obligations, but also for authorisation requirements for organisations organising, assisting and financing immigration. The permit can be issued by the Minister of the Interior, so that the express permission of the Minister of the Interior will be required to continue the future activities of all organisations supporting migration. The decision of the Minister of the Interior will only be brought before a court by a procedural objection. To get permission, you'll have to go through national security tests. However, only organisations whose operations do not pose a national security risk to Hungary can be granted authorisation. It will therefore be the duty of the services to review the requesting organisations from a national security point of view and therefore the national security law should also be amended. Where an organisation concerned continues its activities without a request for authorisation, the prosecutor's office shall call on it to cease its activities, at the same time taking action to delete the tax number. If the organisation does not complete its operation, the prosecution may impose fines, which may amount to HUF 1 million 800 thousand. If the organization doesn't come to any better judgment after that, the prosecutor may appeal to the judge to ask for the removal of the organization. The law defines what constitutes an activity subject to authorisation, including influencing enforcement decisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The second blow is that the bill provides for a 25% levy on subsidies from abroad, but organisations that do not use this amount to organise migration are exempt from it. The third blow is that the bill would also allow Hungarian and foreign citizens to be kept away. As you can see, there are two-thirds of the legislative package, and it is therefore necessary to support the opposition. For all three laws, it is also important to adopt the two-thirds parts, even if we do so in this cycle, and even if we do so in the next one. I therefore call on all Members to support the legislative package in the interests of Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, Last but not least, I must draw your attention to the dangers of the United Nations Global Pacts on Migration, the draft of which has recently been published. According to the documents, all forms of migration are so to say unstoppable, because, according to documents, migration itself is a positive process, so to inform migrants and to plan the process, so to speak, it is necessary to manage it, not, as Hungary does, to intercept it. According to the documents, the text on refugees and migrants is not separated, and their uniform guiding principle is also to wash the different categories of immigrants, to legitimise illegal migration and even to organise it for individual migrants. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] According to the draft documents, family reunification would be easier for all immigrants, and it would not be appropriate to place refugees in camps in the future, but rather to relocate them to settlements inhabited by the majority society. In the document, the ideas of open society have a strong role to play in a number of places. The text assumes gender focus in all procedures and envisages the provision of so-called culturally sensitive healthcare services to immigrants. However, the most critical elements of the document are that it would essentially render effective national measures impossible, as it aims at decriminalising illegal border offences and on a voluntary basis for return return. Furthermore, the ban on return would not only apply to those who are actually being persecuted in their country, but also to all immigrants, regardless of their legal situation. The UN would therefore not only facilitate immigration in a legal sense, but would also almost physically pave the way for migrants, because in countries on major migration routes, the Pact would provide for the creation of stations where immigrants could also receive physical and legal assistance to get to the countries of destination within the framework of a one-stop shop. The negotiation of the Global Migration Pact in the United Nations, ladies and gentlemen, has just begun today, on 20 February 2018. Following this, it is planned that three or four days per month will be allocated to the negotiations, up until July, and the final text would be adopted by the UN Member States at a government conference to be held in Morocco on 10 and 11 December 2018. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, in the UN General Assembly, there are a large majority of states that are considered to be migration-related countries, so we can't expect much good. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can see that terror and terror are everywhere. The fact is that our opponents have launched an aggressive attack on our national Christian values, which we must fight back. In order to do this, we need to gain the confidence of Hungarian citizens again during the elections in 2018. Remember, the last few months have been all about the fact that they have put more and more pressure on our country. The pressure to force the compulsory reception of migrants is increasing. What is this if there is no open attack on indigenous European peoples and nations and on Christian civilization at the root of Europe? We know they are well organized, but believe me, ladies and gentlemen, we are well organized. We protect sovereign Hungary and its inhabitants, so we go our own way. And our freedom fights have always been about not making decisions for us. That's why we're fighting our freedom fight right now. We are fighting for energy prices, taxes, regulation of higher education, support for job creation or just who we can live with in our own country, we can decide for ourselves. [[17.10]] Although the first battles have been won, our opponents, as you can see, do not rest. That's why we need the Stop Soros Act package. Our opponents either don't want to see it, or they don't realize that because of their policies, Islam is spreading like wildfire in the European Union, whose total ideology was directed against Christian culture, and we are slowly on the verge that migrants are no longer pretending to want to fit into European society, but are immediately taking up space and creating a parallel society according to their laws, because they do not share our European values. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's fight because it's up to us, whether we'll have a future, whether we'll have a church in the future, where we can go to pray, or a mosque in its place. Let's be brave and stand up for our Hungarian and Christian values! This is what the KDNP parliamentary faction does, which is why it supports the legislative package, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We're gonna get back to work, and we're gonna hear the lead speaker for Jobbik. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, please.
u2018-02-20-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be quite subtle when I tell you that a sane person has physical pain to listen to these lines and those words of argument or argument side by side. I'll tell you what I'm thinking, and I'd like to say, let's just say, it doesn't matter what I say, because you always lie about us and other people. We are neither pro-immigration nor supported by György Soros [[Not yet!]] Or the many, many things they put on us every day, but it's not like you to stop lying. I thought it was important to say that I think we are the only faction in Parliament where there is neither a Soros scholarship nor a Soros scholarship. You can't say that about your government or your faction, that's all. I would like to ask you a rhetorical question as to what you think is not possible today in the criminal code against illegal immigration. What is it that the Btk. doesn't he think it's possible to do it by the authorities against illegal immigrants or terrorists? Over the last few years, we have made countless legislative amendments here in Parliament, with the votes of Jobbik, of course, which have served to curb both terrorism and illegal immigration. Explain to me that this is Stop Soros, this bill because it's more than that of the Btk. Otherwise, he believes it can be done against the perpetrators of all kinds of crimes! Obviously nothing. Just say that you have been using this for campaign purposes for many years, and this is what is used to cover up everything, which is a real problem in Hungarian society. [[István Szilárd Németh: That's what Soros says!]] In the same way immigration is a very serious and very real problem. This needs to be addressed, but you know perfectly well that nothing will be resolved with this package of legislation, and you know it, but you do not add it. I'd also like to ask you, "Btk." beyond its potential and what prevents the Hungarian secret services from doing their job. Nothing and no one. It is up to the supervisory ministers to use either the Constitutional Protection Office or the Counter-Terrorism Centre or the Information Office. Again, this legislation does not give them anything that strengthens Hungarian security in a relevant way. Then why do you think we created it with the support of Jobbik, again stressing this special, new additional rule of law, the terrorist threat? It is precisely because of what you have justified this proposal, but this did not in reality meet any security policy instruments or considerations. And why is the crisis caused by immigration being proclaimed and maintained? These are the laws which, in contrast to illegal migration, give the Hungarian Defence Office, the Hungarian police, our secret services and all the authorities that serve public security. That's what we should be talking about. So many times, so many times, the protection of Christianity has been said here! Have you ever asked yourself, at least at bedtime or between the four walls, the honest question is, what are you doing under the reference to the protection of Christendom, what are you doing to society? Have you ever asked yourself the question, Fathers and Mothers, because even on Minimax, your idiotic ads go on in 024, that at home, I am aware that little children, four and five-year-old children are talking about how to be afraid of George Soros? It would be ridiculous, normally, that you are terrified of a 90-year-old man, but do not even realize, by referring to your Christianity, that you are causing damage to Hungarian society that is still immeasurable today. We don't know what this insanity you're doing in children and young generations is. [[István Szilárd Németh: The school of Ágnes Heller...]] You need an intellectual ability to understand those serious words, I think, that's what I'm talking about. When little kids talk about it in kindergarten and school, when teachers use it to scare students, it's got to be... [[István Szilárd Németh: No alarms!]] I'll give you an example of them all. [[István Szilárd Németh: Well done! That's how it's done.]] That's what we should do, and in the meantime...
u2018-02-20-158	Dear Parliament,
u2018-02-20-159	Meanwhile, in the meantime...
u2018-02-20-160	Dear Parliament, Wait a minute. Dear Parliament, Let us come to a consensus that in the Parliament only one representative is called Adam Mirkóczki, who is speaking [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Thank God.]] The rest of it's not. So please, today, when we were talking about tolerance, bear with someone else's opinion... [[János Halász intervenes.]] Thank you very much, the President will not be criticised, but we will obey with thanks. You have the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Dr. Répássy, Robert: But don't raise your voice.]]
u2018-02-20-161	I'll continue then. We're not there yet to tell me, Congressman, in what tone to speak. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Then don't shout.]] Push the button. But I can yell, why can't I yell? I could yell. Because of the insanity policy you're pursuing, you're welcome to allow an opposition representative to raise his voice. Why can't I lift it? [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Then, Mr. President, why should we be quiet?]] Submit a house modification...
u2018-02-20-162	Keep quiet because I gave him the floor, and because by your vote, I'm chairing the meeting. In fact, we should not open a debate on this: Mr Mirkóczki is speaking and the others are listening and, consequently, they will be able to express their views later with thanks. I'll count what I said in his time. Thank you.
u2018-02-20-163	I'm patient, thank you very much, Mr. President, so I'll continue. And while these three years of propaganda and social brainwashing have been going on for three years, I didn't even see it well-founded to investigate George Soros in the wake of the authority you've been supervising, such as the National Bureau of Investigation. While this set of laws or proposals entitled Stop Soros was presented on 17 January 2018, your Home Minister at the press conference says in his own words that otherwise we do not know that György Soros would be engaged in such an activity. This is said by Sándor Pintér on 17 January 2018. Then decide what is the relevant problem and what needs to be dealt with, because what you are doing is also, to put it mildly, harmful. If a man were responsible for all this, if only one person, such as George Soros, were responsible for all this, would a Hungarian government, along with all its authorities, be powerless? Well, let's not joke. You know exactly what causes very serious and very unfortunate immigration, by the way. They know as well as I do what the military actions of the great powers play in the Middle East conflicts; this is not György Soros, but it could be him, but they know exactly what he is. Why not condemn military actions in the United States of America, Russia or Turkey? Well, that's what triggers migration on a global scale and global scale! Why don't you judge that? [[17.20]] And if you have to be so terrified of these people, then why are they opening a bond office in Erbil, a few miles from the front? Is this also for the safety of the country? They are terrified of black-Africans, Boko Haram and their associates for a reason, so why are they opening up a bond office in Africa, advertising Hungarian settlement bonds with public money in Africa? Don't you feel these contradictions? Don't you feel the reality has nothing to do with what you're talking about? We need a rubber bone, we need something to constantly scare Hungarian society, and you are doing this very well. And it's sad to say all this on the grounds of the protection of Christendom. You refer to the protection of Christendom, while carrying out an unprecedented campaign of hatred at government level. That's the sad part, and that's what we should be thinking about. And if we wanted to protect Christianity, would it not have been necessary to draw attention last week to the fact that Hungarian youth and Hungarian society were not celebrating Valentine's Day last Wednesday, but to having a cremating Wednesday? That would be the protection of Christianity, but that's not what you're doing! These are the problems we need to talk about. If they're so afraid of immigrants, why did they let 24,000 people in? 20,000 through settlement bonds and more than 3,500 under the Geneva Convention according to different legal status. And I would add that yesterday we had a debate on this, and here was Secretary of State Völner, I do not see it now, but feel free to ask him what he was talking about at the height of 2015-16, when the Hungarian Government made a decision very correctly, and he said in a resolution which, according to the Hungarian Government, are safe third countries. And many Balkan countries have been listed here, including Serbia, including Bosnia. And that wasn't an accident. They have been listed so that we can say and say for a reason that there is no conflict in Serbia and there is no persecution that does not make it a safe country. In other words, it was precisely this government decision that did not have to comply with the Geneva Convention, which was precisely the Government's decision. And it was secretly carried out in the same way, followed in the same way. Because there's nothing else you can do, because we have an international treaty, which we have signed, we have to abide by. The problem is not that we have complied with our obligations under the international agreement, the problem is that they lied to him for three years, that we do not accept anyone. That's the real problem. And do you know that when I talk about social damage, what damage you have done to your propaganda in Hungarian society, there has already been a visible sign of it, has there been an excellent penguin paper, the ancient case? You remember him, don't you? Your propaganda has created a lynch mob, almost cost a man his life if it takes longer. And they forgot to say that the lynch mood developed because of those who were allowed to be protected by you, because of those who Mr.Orbán said it was very right that the originals said and expressed their views, but Mr.Orbán did not add that they were the people who so to be politely knocking on the door and asking us for help, and we gave them protection status. That's the real problem. It is also sad to see that all this is done with so much noise, so much volume, playing so many János Hunyadi, that they do not even realize that they do damage to Hungarian society in different generations, but also at international level. Because the country can also be protected by being silent, we can only do our job, we can also do what you are doing, while the terrorists are putting Hungary on the map. 'Cause now, imagine a moment like that, don't let God give you a moment like that. When he says one of the soldiers and jihadists of the Islamic State, which is scattering from the territory of Syria, that we have now gone on too much adventure in Western Europe, let us punish a Central and Eastern European country. Which do you think they'd choose? [[Németh Szilárd István: Vona, Iranian Revolutionary Guard!]] Who was the loudest, while Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic are doing the same thing that we are, the same position, but they are not making noise. [[Németh Szilárd István: Vona, Iranian Revolutionary Guard! I don't know if you heard.]] However, by making such a fuss in both domestic and international forums, you are raising exactly the risk, and you are drawing attention to the worst circles and to the fact that if you want to punish someone, then there are those who hate you the most. Now, that's the real problem, and that's a risk nobody's considered. And I really don't want to get stuck too much. [[István Szilárd Németh: Yes, you can!]] On this issue, one thing is certain, Hungary, the Hungarian people must be protected, but then we must defend them honestly, protect them quietly, do our job opposition representatives and pro-government representatives, take responsibility for the legislation, support the work of the authorities, because when this happened, they could always count on Jobbik's help. This, on the other hand, is propaganda. And the saddest thing is, I'm certainly not the only one in this room who read Orwell's great novel, 1984, there was an institution called two minutes of hate, and you managed to make it a 24-hour day hate. This is the problem, and we should think about it, and really everyone, if they just get a little involved and say that we want to protect Christianity, we want to protect Hungary, they should also look into the second pan of the imaginary scale and see whether we are doing damage to them, whether we are doing it against Christianity or strengthening it. I don't think it's a question, and you know it. And once we have a normal responsibility to all security issues, it would be a completely different country, believe me. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the independents behind Jobbik, LMP and LMP.]]
u2018-02-20-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This is the opinion of the LMP lead speaker. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to reassure my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, because he said here that we should give up on having children almost because of migration. [[István Szilárd Németh: I did not say that!]] [[István Szilárd Németh: I did not say that!]] What appeared in the NewsCard is not the real Soros plan. So that what you read, from which you just quoted several parts, appeared in the NewsCsard (Németh Szilárd István: I did not say that!) It was actually meant to be a joke. There's definitely some kind of plan, it wasn't. So that you don't have to marry people of the same sex, you don't have to, so you don't have to be scared, a funny team that you don't really understand, they're the ones who published it. Someone else believed it, so you're not the only one, but I assure you, you don't have to worry so much about it. I don't know where to start. Mr Secretary of State has presented the three laws concerned, which we are here at the hearing of, and it is first established factually that the imperialists want to intervene in the affairs of the nation states. After 12 years of Viktor Orbán government, they realized good morning. If this is a new recognition, after 12 years of Viktor Orbán, that someone wants to intervene, then they prove that they have been unfit to govern so far, also because of many other things, but especially because of this. In 2014, when the municipal election took place here, and Barack Obama published on his Facebook page a doctrine change that now civilians should be supported, he showed that there is a substantial, serious paradigm shift, there is no Cold War anymore, but he is trying to intervene by completely different means, using different methods in the affairs of nation states and global processes. And the global migration crisis that the world is facing right now is not a new thing, the problem is that you now realize that your instruments are inadequate to deal with. Obviously, it is possible to agree that either the European Union or George Soros does not offer good solutions, this can be said, but the fact that you do not offer anything but a campaign law is even more shameful. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, said that this piece of legislation is another line of defence. Can't we just give the police some warm tea at the border? So can't we just get a little warmer instead of a new legal line of defense? Can't they get night visions or thermal cameras they can use? Can't we just do the fence system so that the internal affairs services there can do their job? [[17 .30]] Can't you just give us enough human resources to do that? The problem is that there are so many lawyers in this government, because they always want to solve everything by law, and they don't deal with the fact that the existing legislation may already be perfectly suited to handle something. Without further ado, you have had the opportunity for years to produce meaningful results. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, also said that 400 people crossed the country. That's what he said. [[János Halász: 400 thousand.]] Sorry, 400,000 people. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, 400,000 people. Well, that's because you were incompetent to handle the situation. They couldn't handle it, that's why it happened. Obviously, after the Cold War, we have to face a different real problem, and György Soros is an imperialist who wants to intervene, they can be accepted. It's just that they want to demonize a man, and they want to do this demonizing activity in support of their Christian activities, it's a joke. And so was what Szilárd Németh drew attention to, but by the way, the introduction revealed it. They say that at the moment there is a general debate about this, but only the new government will vote on it. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Parliament.]] Sorry, the new Parliament will vote on this. Thank you to my fellow Member, Répássy. Isn't it a ridiculous joke that a tennis tournament was pushed through the National Assembly within a day because it was so important for someone on Margaret Island to start building, to create tennis courts while they couldn't handle it? The whole barn's hanging out here, not the horse's foot! Here, they're basically campaigning for a campaign law that's used to sell it well in the campaign, to see if this package is going through. While it does not include any activity that could be said to lead to substantial progress in the crisis that Central Europe and Europe will face in the coming period. This is also a problem because, in addition to demonizing a human, it is obvious that we could deal with how to solve this global problem. But they don't want to do anything about it in any way. Apparently, they're already busted sending the propagandaistry in here. Why isn't Sándor Pintér here? If this is a matter of internal security, if it's a matter of security, why does the propaganda deal with it? Why is it that experts who know these matters are not sent here and can explain to us why the adoption of the current legislation would be a step forward? Instead, we hear a campaign text. Secretary of State Bence Tuzson is a qualified lawyer, and he's well-known as a lawyer. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, how many laws do you know that have, in particular, a campaign message from a governing party or a party in the preamble. How many of these laws are there, even in a European outlook? Well, you've just started using the legislation for campaign purposes. Isn't that pathetic? I don't know what you think of this as a lawyer, but it's pretty much the shame category where the National Assembly is turned into a clown circus, so that it serves your campaign goals the most. Here, the whole material is constantly mixed with immigrants, migrants and refugees. It's not used consistently anywhere in the legislation. Obviously, if we took the legislation seriously, we would still have concerns that this causes legal uncertainty, but the application of these words is completely confusing and incoherent, and this is part of the fact that it cannot be taken seriously. With appropriate definitions, the lack of appropriate measures is clearly not appropriate for this legislation. Refugees supported by the State or migrants supported by the State. Now, we can talk about the 1,300 people you've taken in in a long way to avoid anyone noticing, not to mention, that Minister Rogán didn't dare come in personally, which came into the country from the settlement business. If you want to help them now, someone who's been installed by you will also start to destroy them. They don't create opportunities for them either, there's no exception. You want to unite everyone no matter what you do. Even if they're washing your laundry by helping those you're installing. Because I suppose there must have been some reason why these people were chosen. I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary that the fact that civil society organisations cannot be established in Hungary for illegal activities has been consistently present in Hungary in relation to the right to unite. It follows that sanctions, which are specifically defined here, would apply to an organisation established to carry out an illegal activity, which is not in principle possible. Does this mean that they do not have such confidence in their own prosecutors and courts that civil society organisations that are engaged in illegal activities are registered? Because that can't happen, which means there's obviously no legal justification here. Right, when the border lock was set up, they tightened up Btk., and helping people became practically a crime. Once again, we do not need legislation. Now, specifically, out of the three laws that are in front of us, what they've already done at Btk, they're trying to repeat them with campaign text. Technically, they say that those involved in a crime will also receive a restraining order. Well, it's either illegal or not illegal. If it's illegal, how can it happen? Well, there may be an inadequate government that can't enforce the law, because otherwise that can't happen. Obviously, these efforts show that this campaign law, of which we are now the extras, is clearly a completely inadequate piece of legislation that we are trying to bring to our attention completely unnecessarily. In the meantime, my fellow Member Mirkóczki was scolded here for raising his voice, even though we listened to this cretin thing that was pushed down by three in a row for 45 minutes. What's there to hear? Politicians coming out of Soros' pocket say this Szilárd Németh. Let's have a look around you. You mean Viktor Orbán? Or who did you mean? Where is it? There is currently a party in the parliament in Hungary, whose rural network, which did not exist in 90, was implemented with Soros support. It's Fidesz. No one else is like that. From Fidesz Scholarships There's a part of the government, and you're talking about politicians coming out of Soros's pocket? Total nonsense. It's like they can't face their own activities. Perhaps the most disturbing thing in this entire legislation is the hypocrisy, the lying communication they're running. I looked here quickly for the Index article on 24 January, so a few weeks ago Fidesz called for asylum cooperation with civilians in Brussels. Your group in Brussels, in mid-January, therefore, voted without further delay in favour of the European Union proposal which called on the Commission to cooperate with civil society and human rights organisations within the framework of their external action policy. Everyone, Deutsch, Szájer, everyone raised their hands and supported them. Make me look. And at home, they're doing a counter-communicative thing about taking out civilians like that. How can this be taken seriously, how can it be accepted, and how can it be treated that it is not merely a matter of using Parliament for their campaign purposes, and that they want to terrorize the country by demonizing a man, as my better fellow Member before me pointed out? And I have another serious concern about all of this. In view of the provisions of the three laws, of the restraining order, of the levy and of the destruction of civilians, I have one more thing in mind. This is that, in practice, the government acknowledges that, at present, intelligence and counterintelligence cannot detect in Hungary the fact that a civil society organisation is financing or helping illegal activities of a kind that jeopardises Hungary's public order. Why do we need legislation to do that? If we have operational intelligence and intelligence, we need to shut down the civilian that you think we're dealing with. Don't you think? Then what are we talking about? If it is just that civilians who receive foreign subsidies want to punish them by taking a quarter of the money, there will be no big deal, such Tiborcz demands will not be met by the amount they can collect! Obviously, that's what's causing the problem. Tiborcz here is only interesting, because if Viktor Orbán had had a father-in-law like Tiborcz now, then he might not have had a Soros scholarship, but he had to, and obviously this is the basis for what we are talking about. Basically, the biggest problem is that you sometimes take Christian values into your mouth, not very fortunately, but I do not know if you are prepared to accept, say, the Hungarians of Transcarpathia in an escalating situation in Ukraine at one and the same time. Or take in a population of up to a million people from Ukraine. You are now virtually blocking the possibility that the Government will be able to fulfil its obligations under an international agreement to help in the event of a serious crisis. You're about to scare off civil society organisations from helping others. And after you don't help us, they'll scare off the civilians, and there won't be anyone left to help. This is terrible because, as the Serbian crisis has been here, at our borders, as the crisis in Ukraine can be widened at any time, we can face not only bad-spirited terrorists from Africa or the Middle East, no: our countrymen, or people who are really fleeing from a real problem. [[17.40]] And if Transcarpathia has come up here, it's incomprehensible, there's so much you can say to stop, that I don't understand why they don't want to hitchhike the Putin Influence, for example. Or you're here as Putin's pussy dog in Parliament. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is strong. Strong.]] So why don't they push the putini economic interests, political interests all over the country, and tell them to stop the putini influence? Why don't you tell me that the Putin plan is already here, that it should be stopped? Putin put the Hungarian government in his pocket the way he is, he bought it, and I don't think it was that expensive, but after he bought it, this Putin plan could be stopped. If you were to use this stop campaign, you could say, if you're already in the horseshoe with the Secretary of State for Propaganda of the Ministry, why don't you tell me that you're going to stop the health crisis? Why don't you want to take that down? So here we are today, talking about this law, which will have no effect, and a next Parliament will discuss it, we will talk about tennis championships on Margaret Island, but they do not want a stop for poverty, they do not want a stop for the problems of education, they do not want a stop for health problems, they do not want a stop for emigration from Hungary, and they do not want a lot of negative social processes that they would have had the historical opportunity to do about it. The good Lord and the Hungarian electorate gave you two-thirds in some funny mood when they could have done anything positive in this country, and this power, other than using it to acquire a lot of private property, to acquire public wealth, cannot use it for anything other than trying to cement their power with more and more feudal campaigns, animosity, and a basic leg of Christian values. I am very, very confident that the Hungarian voters have the common sense to see through this situation, because I have to say that, at the moment today, as a result of the votes of the Fidesz MEPs, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention has not been accepted again, and your government has, to this day, been responsible for the desecration of significantly more Hungarian women than all migrants who have passed through Hungary. You will have to face these voting behaviours and these, and I trust that there will be someone who will confront you in the coming months. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-02-20-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now the first independent Member who has applied can speak. Congressman Gábor Fodor has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Liberal Party, to express our position on the bill, especially because I would like to say at the very beginning, which may well be suspected by my fellow Members, that we liberals are most definitely rejecting this proposal, we are against it, and we believe that the bill serves dangerous propaganda steels. It is dangerous because it causes anger and hatred, so it should not be supported by such a proposal. I should not be allowed to say this, and I would particularly like to say to my fellow members of the Government who have spoken here to defend the proposal and interpret the proposal here in front of the House, to Mr Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State, Szilárd Németh, the lead speaker of Fidesz, who is not in the Chamber right now, and I would also like to address this to my fellow Member Imre Vejkey. I think that if a government trusts you and, of course, every government and pro-government force tries to trust you, then before the elections, it would be appropriate to try to mobilise voters with the results of the last four or eight years, political, economic and other achievements, rather than create an enemy image. If we believe in ourselves, if we believe that we will continue to do the right things, then we should mobilise people with plans for the future, mobilize them, and not by embarrassing the country into a classic, completely typical enemy training, scapegoat training, and confusing many who can be deceived by this financial force, the Stop Soros campaign with a huge propaganda machine. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a wrong and wrong political thing that the governing parties are doing at the moment, and I think that it is actually an internal uncertainty, because if you were so sure of these results and, as I said before, you would be so sure of the plans for the future, then you should not be based on anger, and what we are proposing is clearly based on anger. In parentheses, Mr Mirkóczki already referred to this in his speech with an example, yes, this bill builds on shameful emotions. But let me turn back where I started by saying that we liberals reject this proposal, and let me give you the arguments why we think it is wrong, wrong, and, as I said in my introduction, this bill is dangerous, it serves dangerous propaganda steels. Let me start by saying that György Soros personally played a major role in creating a party in Hungary called Fidesz. He had a role in it, because I was one of the first to meet György Soros in 1985. We were students at the Bibo dorm as young lawyers, we could meet there, and indeed, we had the honour, by the way, there are few of them in this room, Mr. Pál Völner is one of those who could have been at this meeting theoretically, I don't remember exactly, but he will tell us if he was there. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] The fact is that we owe a great deal to György Soros, because György Soros supported us, the college of professionals at the time, and as a result of this support, we had access to important tools such as copiers, faxes, etc. that we could gain from the party state, the Cadár system and the communist system, which meant a great deal to us that our world vision and our thinking had expanded. Later, at the end of the 1980s, this support was addressed not only to colleges but also to civil society organisations, which, I note, are now on the brink of this bill, civil society organisations such as Fidesz at the time. Fidesz also received support, and I remember how fantastically it meant that we were able to install our rural offices, we could send faxes to the offices of Miskolc, Pécs, Szombathely and other offices, we could use photocopiers in many places, we knew other technical tools that were needed to operate at the time, which were almost inaccessible in Hungary. They were of great importance, and they meant a great deal. György Soros has done much to make a democratic change of regime in Hungary, selflessly helping not only Fidesz. He helped Fidesz until the youth organization, as soon as he became a party, stopped helping him because he couldn't. The same applies to the MDF, and I note that the MDF, as long as there was no party, received assistance as soon as it became a party. The same applies to the Free Initiatives Network, which later became SZDSZ, until there was no party, received support, as it could have been received. György Soros has done a great deal in a very fair way, both personally and through his foundations, to make a successful democratic change in Hungary. Among other things, one of the beneficiaries of this was Fidesz, which I don't think is a problem at all, is a problem if someone doesn't want to remember it or try to rewrite the past or interpret it differently. For the record, part of this help was that, of course, the Soros Foundation opened the world for us, and we could get scholarships through Soros support. For many of us, this also meant help and jobs in some respects. I also worked in a research group where we were together with László Kövér and Viktor Orbán, and we were researching the problems of Central Europe, and the Soros Foundation was responsible for its existence. But in addition, József Szájer and Zsolt Németh also received scholarships from the leaders of Fidesz, or from former well-known members of the European Parliament and Hungarian Parliament, or Lajos Kósa, for example, attended the summer university funded by György Soros. So many of the current leaders owe much to the fact that their thinking, their world vision, evolved as a country later became acquainted with it at the time of the change of regime. Liberal Fidesz was created, and liberal Fidesz was a major success in the 1990 elections as a generational party. [[17.50]] I don't want to use those not-so-cultured or similar subpar turns in my speech about who pissed out of Soros's pockets or who bought a kilo. Those aren't civilized remarks, I think. I would rather say that I have no intention of thinking that those who were then, we, others, who were not in this room, but those who I was talking about earlier, who were supported by the Soros Foundation, were bought by kilos, as many people here, I say, but that term is not correct, because it does not contain the essence. György Soros supported these movements at the time because he sincerely believed that Hungary had become a decent, open-minded, democratic country. And I think you did the right thing by giving me these grants. Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth pointing out at this point in the debate that if, at the time of the Kádár regime, at the time of the regime change, this proposal, which is before us, would have been proposed there, these subsidies would not have been possible. Then Fidesz wouldn't have received support, neither would the MDF, we personally wouldn't have received many, many wouldn't have received scholarships. This bill, my honourable fellow Members, which the pro-government representatives are celebrating and wanting to vote on, would have made it impossible for everything I have talked about so far, so that the change of regime can be created so that open thinking can be developed for many people, for a generation, for young people, and for us at the Bibo dorm. That's why, among other things, this happened. Not only that, I would add, but that's what it took. [[György Balla: Gábor, some eyes open.]] That is what it took, and indeed, ladies and gentlemen, if this proposal, which is now before us, had it been born at the time of the party state, none of this would have happened. So for this reason, I think that everyone should be grateful because György Soros and the Soros Foundation helped Hungary so much at the time, and regardless of whether someone is currently in dispute with György Soros or with the views he represents, this important fact should not be taken away or silenced. You are now putting a man in the crosshairs, putting him at the heart of the attacks, who is a man of Hungarian origin, and has done a great deal for his country. He has done a great deal to create a free, democratic, open-minded, decent Hungary here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would add that if we think what you say a lot in this debate or in propaganda that there is some terrible, mysterious training going on in the background through the Soros Empire and through foundations, then it is worth considering how we interpret everything I have said so far. Because if it's true that the training in the Soros Empire is so strict and military, then how could it happen that many of you, me, of course, and many of us who were Bibo-college students, have received such support and help, yet we think in different ways. So this training doesn't seem to be that successful. So what doesn't happen is that uniformed, dangerous people are somehow coming out of the Soros Foundation, and if they support them, they will all be very evil, and then they will be against the interests of Hungary. It's not that simple. But we're obviously diverse, we're different, we're useful. After all, there is a benefit to the fact that there are civil society organisations in Hungary. Yet, it is not possible to think of civil society organisations as executors of some mysterious plan and play some kind of music. Because that's what should have happened to us at the time of the change of regime, and it didn't. That's not what's happening to you, either; or it's such a mysterious and twisty plan that you're part of some secret plan or executive at the moment. Obviously, this is absurd, so the bill and the whole campaign itself have elements that are full of absurdity. But behind the absurdity and the proposal, I would like to emphasise once again, I feel basically weakness, and this is a very serious mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should not create fear and hatred in Hungarian people. Not to strangers, either. Not to anyone. I would like to know why, by the way, when they keep talking about refugees and György Soros and putting refugees in the target as enemies, an enemy image against which many of us have raised our word that there are still 22 thousand economic migrants who have been given settlement bonds. Which was mentioned again in this House, because I had a fellow Member who made this point. How is that possible? How can it happen that if anyone here actually believes your propaganda, then there is a serious contradiction here. For the record, I don't think it's a problem. I'm thinking something else about it. I think it's natural, in a legal and normal way, for a country to accept refugees, it's natural and normal for migration to stress that it's legal and normal, but it's impossible for you to say on one side that no refugee can set foot in here, while giving 22,000 people settlement bonds. Then it turned out that 1300 refugees had been taken in by the country for the last year. When you fought against the assessment of 1294 asylum applications by Hungary, you put Hungary in a position to sit on the European bench of shame. So, overall, I think that this Stop Soros legislative package is a dangerous propaganda tool; it is a dangerous propaganda tool, because it is capable of generating anger and hatred. An anger and hatred that is unworthy of us Hungarians, my fellow Members, and, speaking of Christian people. At the end, I would like to answer one of my fellow Members, Imre Vejkey, because he has repeatedly referred to Christianity. We know each other well, and I know that Imre is serious about your faith and belief, and that is why I would like to say to her that yes, there is also a debate going on within Christendom on this issue. It's quite simple, but I'm forced to quote the expression and comment of Pope Francis, who thinks very differently from what the Fidesz and what the Fidesz Propaganda say. He says that we need to give our help to the people in distress, including specifically to help refugees, not to the lynch mood! So what's happening here is going to be Ancient. Ancient and lynch mob, not Christian love. Christian love does not mean that everyone should come to millions and receive everyone. Not at all. It's about helping people in trouble. And we're helping intelligently. Once it's over, we can eliminate the cause of the problem, then we can create the possibility of a return, but we can't give the help hand. And these billings are capable of creating a mood so that people don't want to help, but want to hit, see the example of his brother. That's why it's shameful. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, we liberals will not support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2018-02-20-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches, but no one has applied for this genre, so that further speeches can be made. The first among these is Congresswoman Mátrai Márta, Housekeeper of the Parliament, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The reason for the legislative proposals restricting and restricting the functioning and functioning of immigrant organisations is the concern for the nation, the experience of the unbroken struggle that our ancestors conducted for the survival of the Hungarian people. We find it regrettable that there are people who don't care about that. We, politicians of Christian-Conservative values, feel the responsibility for the survival of the Hungarian nation, which comes from respecting the efforts of the past to preserve the nation, we have a responsibility to preserve the Hungarians as a national community. This responsibility can also be read by the National Creed in the Fundamental Law, and it has been recorded there, my fellow Members, that the Hungarian people have overwhelming historical experiences about mass resettlement, and therefore we are clearly cautious about this issue. The Hungarian was an inclusive nation for centuries. After the bleeding of the history of the Hungarian ruling class, he allowed many peoples to settle in the protected territory of the country. The experience remains that when the residents became numerous, they inhabited the Hungarian landscape, and at the first opportunity they drove the native inhabitants away from their land, and by all means prevented the survival of the Hungarian language and customs. [[18.00]] In short, they advocated the disappearance of Hungarian life rather than the preservation of it. However, the simple question is whether the Hungarian people have the right to remain as Hungarians in their homeland. Everything else in our opinion is just a matter of detail. However, I would like to bring up a piece of a book from Yuval Harari. Some of you may have read it, but I find it very remarkable. It says in his book that the view that nations are slowly disappearing has spread throughout the world, and that it is best for the world to be controlled by the rich. The deployment plan is the result of the global vision that the global empire is built under the rule of the rich, which is not governed by a particular state or group of peoples, but rather led by a multiethnic elite. This is how the world state of the rich is made. This obsession must get the national communities together out of the way, and the Hungarian government tries to stop it with the spirit and words of the proposed laws. Ladies and gentlemen, We can ask what is at stake in the election. The stakes of the election are to make Hungary strong by the will of the electorate and with the help of God. Fidesz-KDNP guarantees security, peaceful development, quietness, continuation of civil construction and further strengthening of family policy against the adoption of quotas without a ceiling under the Belgian Prime Minister's mandate. However, the Stop Soros bill consists of three elements. Firstly, organisations that organise illegal immigration, rather civil, will be registered separately, working with paid activists. They will have to make a separate declaration, and they will have to pay a 25% levy on the amounts paid to support migration. The Stop Soros legislative package is strongly supported by society. I refer Article C of the Fundamental Law, paragraph 2 thereof, to paid politicians and NGOs, and I would like to quote this. Article C (2) of the Basic Regulation states that: "Nobody's activities shall be directed towards the violent acquisition or exercise of power or the exclusive possession of it. Everyone is legally entitled and obliged to act against such efforts. This paragraph also suggests that an attempt to gain violent power violates the Fundamental Law. Under the Hungarian Criminal Code, the violent change of constitutional order is a criminal offence. It's worth considering. We are convinced that the institution of alien detention is remarkable for everyone, because it serves the purpose of keeping everyone away from Hungary, who is doing something that is fundamentally contrary to the interests of the Hungarian people. We want Hungary not to be an immigrant country. Ladies and gentlemen, So much has been said here in the speeches, both in the keynote speech and by my fellow Members, that, to sum up, all three legislative proposals serve the interests of Hungary, the survival of Hungary, the improvement of the quality of life of Hungarian people, the rise and vision of the country. That is why we are asking for the support of the honourable Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-02-20-170	Thank you very much. It's time for Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. Then there is a two-minute speech. A representative of the LMP is coming. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to thank Gábor Fodor Fidesz-founder for his speech, who reminded and confronted the Fidesz people of where he started, from what sources the past of Fidesz began. Obviously, some of the members of today's Fidesz fraction were still in the ranks of MSZMP and could not experience what Gábor Fodor experienced as founder. That is why the speech to add Fidesz was useful. I do not agree on one thing in this case with my fellow Member Fodor. He said Soros did the right thing by supporting him. I don't know if this mafia state could have built up even if these Soros subsidies weren't. So whether the long-term benefits of this are really positive for Hungarian society, I am not convinced, and I do not share my fellow Member's optimism in this respect. That is for sure, as I have already said, that in Hungary there is currently a party in Parliament, which owes so much to George Soros in terms of training both his rural network and his leaders, and this is Fidesz. The ugly ingratitude of the way they are now building a campaign by demonizing this elderly man clearly shows their human stamina, their human quality in some way. I just wanted to talk a little more about the fact that, after my fellow Member Mátra Mátra's speech, I am sad, and I am sorry for the person from Hungarian history who comes to the conclusion that we should kick anyone who asks for help in the country and not help someone. The fate of those who filter this from Hungary's 1100-year history, and this conclusion for him, is certainly not a happy fate. As a man from Túrkeve, a resident of the Nagykunság, a resident of a settlement settled by the Kuns, I obviously feel that it would be worth researching thoroughly both in the present composition of the Hungarians and in the ethnic composition of the Great Hungary to develop this position. I think it is important to mention this because the history of the Parliament's activities has been raised in this regard, as Parliamentary Secretary mentioned in his speech that the amendment of the Fundamental Law failed in the opposition. Well, he didn't fail the opposition. This failed on the steering wheel. He failed because he couldn't bring in a fundamental law amendment that the Parliament would have accepted. If they are unfit to compromise, they do not understand the foundations of democracy. If you have not been able to make any amendments that would have been suitable for cooperation with a number of opposition parties that are otherwise aware of this problem and would seek a solution, cooperation to be managed, this is the inadequacy of the government. He made the wrong proposal, and he didn't assess the possibilities of what had a background. This is important because all of this points out that, since the migrant crisis in our country, Fidesz has been using it for campaign purposes and campaign campaigns. He's still basically using Parliament as a campaign theatre with his activities. This is basically my experience when my fellow Member, Márta Mátrai, has come with Hungarian history, is fundamentally unworthy of this House as it is being debated and presented. In the last sentence of my fellow Member, he asked for Parliament's support for this legislation. Then why didn't you like bringing me here in this session? What if it wasn't a campaign tool, why was the tennis tournament more important? It could have been done without further ado, but I trust that Hungarian society will see through the situation and, on 8 April, it will be valid for giving the country into the hands of people and governments who are fit and worthy to lead this country. I think it's been a while since Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-02-20-172	Thank you, Congressman. István Ikotity, Member LMP, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to express my conviction that I have said several times in Parliament. In connection with György Soros, I would like to distance myself from all the ideas that he represents, from all the activities that he carries out. I think, ever since I can remember, George Soros has been the image of him presenting the worst possible face of capitalism to our country. He's the one who made his fortune through speculation, and he's obviously not the one who made it with a value-making activity. After that, he will use this activity in part to spread his own ideas in different parts of the world, including in our country. Indeed, the best example of this is the way he supported Hungarian students in the late eighties, or the way he built the Fidesz rural network. I'm sure he'll do it again. At the moment, what the government is doing in our country, while declaring itself national, Christian, that it is setting up a balance sheet, which puts Hungary in one of the pans of the balance sheet, Hungarian history through St. Stephen, St. Laszlo to the Hunyadiak, Rákóczi, Petőfi and Széchenyi, has lived a great deal of our nation, which has been torn up by a great deal of trouble and trouble, puts on the same balance with a 90-year-old old man, and he says that he is our opponent, this, I think, is the sale of national ideas, the look-down of our country. I think it's a very unworthy thing to do. [[18.10]] Moreover, what we can see at this point is that the bill before us is about whether you can even do away with anyone, against a Hungarian citizen. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How do you know they won't do that? Because right now, in politics, what they're doing is that anyone who doesn't blow a stone with you, who doesn't sound your song, the president's gonna jog the bell and tell you the time has passed. They say he's the man of Soros. They're gonna do the same to civilians, to everyone, there's no guarantee that that's not the case. Thank you for your patience. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2018-02-20-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to reflect on what has been said in the debate as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary Tuzson will take the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Despite the fact that we're discussing a package of laws here, [[Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity István are leaving the meeting.]] In fact, in this Parliament, though in the benches of the opposition, it seems that no one has formed a debate in principle. And the essence of the debate in principle is whether immigration is a good thing or a bad thing, so the Parliament, by adopting or not accepting this law, supports the process of migration or does not support the process of migration. It should be noted to you that I often think of Jobbik as being strong and weak in words, but, on the basis of this speech, I must think that they have also become weak in words, especially in the last vote, when Jobbik's representatives did not vote for the decision to stand up for the Poles, here in Parliament they did not press a button. I think that in itself is an outrage. But back to the question of immigration, it is a fundamental question that what Adam Mirkóczki has just said simply does not correspond to reality, and I cannot assume that he has said this by mistake, and I do not assume that he has not read the law, because this legislation is not about illegal immigration. This legislation is about immigration and support, financing and organisation of immigration, whether this immigration is illegal or not. It is natural that criminal sanctions have been involved in illegal activities, but there are activities that cannot otherwise be considered illegal. Well, in this case, the authorisation procedure must be introduced in Hungary. The question of why we are maintaining the crisis caused by immigration, or in my previous speech, I said that one of the main reasons for the crisis caused by immigration is that in the next period, according to NATO estimates, 60 million people will arrive in Europe, including on the Hungarian borders. And if there were no border closure at the Hungarian border, these people would have been here in Hungary and on the land route in Europe by now. The fact that much fewer people arrive on the land route is due to the Hungarian border closure. Overall, I am surprised by Adam Mirkóczki's comment because he has actually said in this speech that the Soros plan does not exist, that otherwise the process of migration itself is not dangerous. In his most interesting comment, I think that when he noted that we should remain silent and quiet. If we're quiet and quiet, it means we're giving up something. Political issues, legislation and decisive action cannot be done quietly in Brussels, and something cannot be fought and defended quietly. That's the policy of giving up. And I have now understood, ladies and gentlemen, when Jobbik talks about the policy of surrender, why Gábor Vona said that Islam is the last defense for mankind. These two are closely linked. It follows from the policy of surrender that Islam is considered to be the last defensive bulwark of mankind. Allow me also to respond in a few words to the comments of Sallai R. Benedict, who questioned the substantive results. As a matter of merit, the fence is already at our southern borders. There's already a force at our southern borders. There is already a legal border closure, legal protection; it is not so easy now to cross the southern borders, but it is not enough in itself, we need to move on. When a person, a country, protects his safety, security is not a static state, security must be constantly protected, and attention must be paid to other challenges. These other challenges need to be constantly addressed. That's what this bill is all about. The speech of the LMP was a bit controversial, but we could get used to it in a sense, because it was András Schiffer who was the first person to say in February 2015 that he was wrong and underestimated the strength of migration, the severity of migration. On the contrary, Sallai R. Benedek spoke, but István Ikotity spoke contrary to Sallai R. Benedek. It would be nice to find out what LMP's true position is. On one thing, they agreed that this bill, which now serves to protect Hungary, cannot be supported by them. Allow me to respond briefly to Gábor Fodor's comment. I'm sorry he's not in this room, because it's Gábor Fodor who's at least consistent in this matter, because what he's talking about is a matter of faith. He himself believes in George Soros, believes in open society and politics. Therefore, it is no wonder that you are explaining this position here. [[György Balla intervenes.]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is the party of Gábor Fodor who is in league with the MSZP and will be a member of Gábor Fodor's party on the MSZP list. This can only be imagined if these parties cooperate with each other on the basic issue of Hungary's defence, because that is the main issue of Hungary now. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this law must be decided by the new Parliament. Therefore, the stakes of this election are really now whether we will be able to adopt a bill of this magnitude, which is about protecting the country, whether Hungary is able to defend itself, whether it is able to create legislation that can implement this type of influence, opinion and country control through various organisations, policy-making with foreign money and foreign support by György Soros. This is therefore the fundamental issue, and the Hungarian electorate must decide on this, and a Parliament should be formed next, which is able to adopt the Stop Soros legislative package. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday, and I will inform you. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan follows. The government referral is T/19759. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan. The agreement to be announced concerns making investments that are made more secure and more favourable by investors in the two countries in each other's territory. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established in Tajikistan from a Hungarian perspective. The mutual provision of the provisions of the Agreement does not require any legislative amendment on the part of Hungary. Hungarian legislation guarantees the same treatment as domestic businesses for foreign investors established in Hungary. [[18.20]] With the entry into force of the agreement, the same rights will also be guaranteed to Hungarian investors in Tajikistan. This is a bilateral agreement between the two countries, but foreign direct investment has been part of the common policy within the European Union since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty. This means that the Member States of the European Union can conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries if the European Commission has also issued an approval authorisation for it under the necessary domestic authorisation. In the case of the agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan, this was done, so the Hungarian Government signed the document. Dear House, One of the main purposes of the agreement is to ensure that investors in the two countries have legal guarantees to protect their investments. We trust that domestic farmers will appear as investors in the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan. In particular, it is important for investors to settle disputes that may arise, even against the State, under fair, impartial arbitration. The overall agreement of 14 articles meets the content requirements of international standards. As regards the framework of the agreement, it protects the investor and its investment abroad from establishment in the partner country. For companies and companies investing abroad, the four main guarantee elements are: protection against discrimination, i.e. discrimination, and the highest benefit and national treatment; protection against possible expropriation carried out outside the public policy objectives, or inadequately compensated, as well as unfair and unfair treatment; and fourth, the agreement also concerns the protection of the possibility of capital transfers. The investment protection agreements thus provide a way to resolve disputes between the investor and the State with the agreement with the Republic of Tajikistan. This provision constitutes the main guarantee element for investors and therefore forms part of any investment protection agreement. This provision also provides protection in cases where the provisions of the investment protection agreement are not directly enforceable in a given country before the domestic court of the partner country. Dear Parliament, We expect the conclusion of the agreement to help Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan develop their investment relations by protecting investors, so I ask that the bill be discussed and adopted later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-178	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The bilateral investment protection agreement signed between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan, I believe, is an important milestone in cooperation between the two countries, including contributing to the further expansion of cooperation between the pharmaceutical and food safety countries. Tajikistan is also planning to import Hungarian food security technologies, as only 7 percent of the country's territory can be used for agricultural production, therefore the importance of food safety is high. In addition, huge investment opportunities are offered to Hungarian water companies in Tajikistan, as 54 percent of Asia's hydropower resources are in this Central Asian country. The country has many rivers and mountain lakes, but it uses only 5 percent of the potential hydropower, and only 45 percent of the population have access to direct drinking water. With this, I would like to demonstrate the great potential of exporting Hungarian water management technologies to Tajikistan. In order to facilitate the investments of Hungarian companies, a credit line was also established at Eximbank. Dear Parliament, As the Secretary of State said, Article 8 of the Convention before us is an important guarantee. According to that legislation, disputes between the investors of one Contracting State and the other Contracting State relating to their investment in the territory of one Contracting State should be settled primarily by the parties to the dispute out of court, in a negotiated manner. As is certainly well known to many, the essence and meaning of investment protection agreements are the possibility of arbitration to protect the investor's property, so it is important that the agreement to be announced by the bill also contains the main guarantee element for the protection of investors. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to stress that Hungary places great emphasis on the expansion and development of relations with Central Asian countries as part of the Eastern opening, which is also integrated in the deepening of cooperation with the Republic of Tajikistan as outlined above. At present, Asia is the world's fastest growing region. In order to increase competitiveness and security, I believe that close cooperation is self-evident. Our country is at the forefront of economic cooperation with Asia. Therefore, the present agreement is essential to create favourable investment conditions in terms of investment security. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-180	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the other factions have not set up lead speakers, which has led us to the end of the speaker's speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Other Members' speeches are just a matter of duty. [[Defiance. No one's reporting.]] No one's come forward. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reply. [[Péter Benő Banai says no.]] He doesn't want to answer. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is now taking place until closure. The government referral is T/1961. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the author. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-181	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is to publish a Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of the Philippines to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and the Philippines was signed in 2012, all EU Member States and the EU itself have ratified it. In November 2017, the European Union also approved the Protocol signed on behalf of the Member States with a view to Croatia's accession. In January this year, the Philippines Senate approved the agreement, which the EU considers to be a milestone that has broken a long negative trend. However, ratification of the Philippines requires the signature of the President. The Framework Agreement includes commitments on human rights, the fight against terrorism, the International Criminal Court, migration and taxation, which are of particular importance for the external policy of the European Union. As a developing country, the Philippines is currently entitled to benefits within the EU's general tariff preferences system, which makes it one of the biggest beneficiaries of this system. Dear Parliament, I urge you to support the bill in order to further strengthen international relations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-182	Thank you very much. The keynote speeches will follow, Honourable Parliament. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, lead speaker of the Fidesz is coming. Here you go. [[18.30]]
u2018-02-20-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. As is known, Croatia's accession to the European Union calls for amendments to the agreements concluded by the EU with third countries. These include the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation with the Republic of the Philippines, which has already been signed. The Republic of the Philippines, as we know, is one of the most important states in Southeast Asia, one of the fastest developing regions in the world, with a rapidly growing population and an ever-increasing technological level, which I would like to emphasise. The situation of the Republic of the Philippines is particularly important these days, and there is a serious struggle between China and the Philippines to rule the surrounding archipelago. It is therefore also a strategic issue for the European Union to have a close relationship with the Republic of the Philippines. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is the European Union, while the Philippines is one of the fastest developing states in Southeast Asia. Water management cooperation between the two countries has a considerable history. This is why the local disaster management decided to order Hungarian water treatment equipment. In addition, I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State that Hungarian companies are carrying out, so to speak, a feasibility study to clean and rehab the largest lake in the Philippines. The Philippines therefore desperately needs such water purification technologies; the entire water supply of a ten thousand settlement is currently provided by Hungarian equipment. Dear Parliament, In addition to food, agriculture and water management, there are opportunities for cooperation with the Philippines in the fields of electronics, medical technology and pharmaceuticals. So I believe that it is a significant achievement that three Hungarian meat companies have been granted export licences, while seven other companies have requested the help of the Hungarian government to obtain export rights. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, it is important not only for our country, but also for the European Union as a whole, to adopt this proposal for a technical amendment. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-184	Thank you very much, too. I would like to inform you that no other faction has set up a keynote speaker, so that we are now at the end of the keynote speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. Other speeches could follow. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[Nándor Csepreghy: No, thank you.]] Mr. Secretary of State will avert that, thank you for that. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposed Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/1962. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, the rapporteur of the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-185	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak again. Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is to recognise the mandatory scope of the framework agreement between the European Union and Australia by Parliament. The Framework Agreement aims to establish a strengthened partnership between the European Union and Australia, providing a framework for cooperation. To this end, it shall lay down a framework for political cooperation on matters of foreign and security policy of common interest, including the fight against terrorism, the promotion of international peace and security and cooperation in multilateral fora. The Framework Agreement also regulates cooperation on economic and trade matters and defines sectors in which the Contracting Parties cooperate more closely. The economic foundations of relations between the European Union and Australia are solid. Australia's most important investment partner is the European Union, ahead of the United States. Dear House, There has been a diplomatic relationship between Hungary and Australia since 1972. Last year a historic meeting took place when the Australian Governor-General visited our country for the first time. The Hungarian V4 Presidency will continue to strengthen bilateral relations again this year, in January the Visegrád countries held a meeting with the Australian Trade Minister, and in the next few days the Foreign Minister will be welcomed. Australia is also a prominent relationship for our country from a national political point of view, since according to Australian official data, the number of people who claim to be Hungarians is 73,613 people in the country. Dear Parliament, I urge you to support the bill in order to further strengthen international relations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-02-20-186	Thank you very much. The keynote speeches will follow, Honourable Parliament. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, lead speaker of the Fidesz is coming. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union and its Member States consider it important to further deepen and develop relations with Australia, as we have heard, in all areas of political, economic and cultural life. For Hungary and the Visegrad countries too, I think cooperation with Australia is of paramount importance. Moreover, this is supported by the recent meeting of the foreign ministers of the V4 and Australia. So what we see is that Australia's attention is increasingly focused on Central Europe. The Visegrád Group therefore supports the early start of negotiations on a free trade agreement between Australia and the European Union and, hopefully, a decision on this will be taken by the end of February and negotiations will start in spring. I believe that the issue of the automotive industry and agriculture will be particularly important for the Visegrád countries. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that Australia is a serious economic operator, which has continued to grow over the past 25 years. The economies of the European Union and the world are facing a major change as the focus shifts from production to digitalisation. The Australian minister called for the expansion of trade and investment, as well as the strengthening of economic relations with Europe, with particular regard to the Visegrad countries. Innovation and R &amp; D can also be an outstanding area of cooperation. It is also important to stress that Australia has considerable experience in the area of immigration policy, which we can also take into account. In view of all this, we welcome the framework agreement concluded between the European Union and Australia, and on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you for listening.
u2018-02-20-188	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the other factions have not set up any keynote speakers, so we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I wonder if anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is hereby closed. Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? [[Nándor Csepreghy: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Coming up next is the International Rail Transport Agreement. and the general debate on the draft law on the publication of amendments to its Annexes for 2017 until closure. The government referral is T/1960. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csepreghy, the author. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill we are discussing now provides for the publication of amendments to the Agreement on International Carriage of Rail and its Annexes for 2017. The agreement was concluded by the socialist countries of Eastern Europe in 1951 to regulate rail traffic between them. The founding members, including Hungary, withdrew from the convention in 1991, and in 2001 our country rejoined the agreement. Annual amendments to the Agreement and its Annexes shall be published in law on the basis of the Act on Procedures for International Contracts. The amendments for 2017 refer to formal and textual clarifications in the Convention, Annexes 1, 5 and 6 and to substantive changes and additions in Annex 3. The amendments and additions for 2017 concern the procedures for filling in the consignment note and the explanations for filling in the consignment note, the necessary particulars for carriers involved in international transport under the Agreement, the guidelines for the permissible size and weight of the cargo and the installation and recording of the consignment in the wagon, and not least the requirements for the placing and fixing of cold storage containers in the wagons. [[18.40]] The publication of the amended Agreement and its Annex is necessary in order to enable railway undertakings operating in Hungary engaged in international transport to adapt clearly and effectively to the provisions of the Agreement in the course of their transport on railway lines of the Member States which are parties to the Agreement in the direct international traffic of goods. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to approve the bill tabled and to support the publication of the agreement and its annexes. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-02-20-190	Thank you very much. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, lead speaker of the Fidesz, please.
u2018-02-20-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to reach an agreement on international rail freight. Allow me, Mr. President, to quote you in Russian.
u2018-02-20-192	I should have asked.
u2018-02-20-193	Soglaseniya o Mezsdunarodnom Gruzovom Soobschenii, abridged: SZMGSZ. I only wanted to say it in the original language because it is understandable, it is understandable, why this abbreviation is SZMGSZ.
u2018-02-20-194	Thank you so much for enriching us with this. There you go. Keep going.
u2018-02-20-195	Thank you very much. So, continuing in Hungarian, the said SZMGSZ has been on the agenda of the Parliament almost every year. During the debates that took place at that time, I saw that there was an understatement of the importance of such a convention and the importance of being a party to the SZMGSZ. Please allow me, despite the late hour, to briefly say a few words about the importance of rail freight agreements and the role of the SZMGSZ itself. Well, we see, ladies and gentlemen, that the SZMGSZ is essential for carrying out rail freight in the eastern direction, because it contains detailed rules and regulations for freight transport in the eastern direction, so, in the absence of the Convention, Eastern rail transport would be almost impossible, and Hungary would essentially cease to exist for Russia and the Asian states. Thus, the degradation of eastern traffic would make it impossible to operate the Zahonian transhipment area and a number of jobs would be at risk, while the benefits of transhipment activities could be skimmed by others in Slovakia or even Poland. However, it is important, ladies and gentlemen, also to note that, from the point of view of rail transport, I note that it is also important for Russia and for the President, so the Russian language is a particularly important and unavoidable factor. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it is also a gift that our country is not only geographically close to Russia, but also the Russian-standard railway reaches Hungary. We are well aware that in our country you can travel to Tuzsér on a wide track. The Hungarian standard, which exists in a large part of Europe, for the distance between the rails, I would just like to remind my fellow Members of 1435 millimeters, whereas the standard is already 1520 millimeters east of us. So, apparently, this small difference creates very serious differences between wide-gauge and normal-gauge systems. It is no coincidence, my fellow Members, that the fourth railway package of the European Union must also grant derogations to countries where only the Russian system has been established, since unifying the different directions of development would be an impossible undertaking in the absence of an infinite amount of money. This is why such documents are necessary, which are required to regulate the technical specifications, standards and the rest, so that all relevant actors in the Hungarian rail system can handle freight from different systems. Ladies and gentlemen, With less technical expertise, it is clear to us as well as to the philios that the above requirements serve both the maintenance of accident-free rail transport and the welfare of the track. Of course, compliance with these standards must also be taken seriously and monitored. The so-called diagnostic equipment installed by the MÁV today at the cost of a serious investment is also helpful. In my constituency, it helps to eliminate the risks posed by freight trains entering border posts from Slovakia, e.g. in Hidasnémeti and Sátoraljaújhely, a loading gauge control device and a wheel load control device. Thanks to these expensive equipment, there is a significant increase in railway safety in Abaúj and Zemplén. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, I would like to ask you to support this proposal.
u2018-02-20-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. The other factions didn't put in a lead speaker, so we ended up with the keynote speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. Mr State Secretary points out that he does not wish to live to answer what has been said in the debate, so I will tell you, Honourable Parliament, that the amendments will be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, the general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the draft law on the publication of the Agreement on international carriage of passengers and goods by road until its closure follows. The government referral is T/1964. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. State Secretary Csepreghy, the author, please.
u2018-02-20-197	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The bill provides for the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on international road passenger and freight transport, which was signed in Vienna on 7 December 2017. The purpose of the bill is to obtain and publish the necessary authorisation to recognise the mandatory scope of the agreement between the two countries. Road passenger transport and freight transport between Azerbaijan and Hungary are currently not covered by a bilateral document, so this is absolutely important and it is particularly important to establish an intergovernmental agreement to this effect, which establishes a legal framework for activities. The agreed agreement regulates passenger and freight transport activities carried out by road through bilateral or transit. The Agreement lays down the conditions for the carriage of passengers and freight, and the cases of the exemption from taxes and licences for the carriage of goods. It regulates the transport of oversized or dangerous goods, provides for the obligations of carriers, the measures to be taken in the event of an infringement, and lays down the competent bodies and working parties responsible for implementing the agreement. The agreement ensures passenger and freight transport between the two parties, contributes to strengthening Hungary's economic relations in the eastern direction and helps to strengthen bilateral trade and economic relations. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill tabled and to support the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-198	Thank you, too. It's time for a speech by the Chief Speaker. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, lead speaker of the Fidesz, please.
u2018-02-20-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, As has already been said, the T/1964 before us. The aim of the proposal is to publish an agreement on international passenger and freight transport by road between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The bilateral intergovernmental transport agreements play an important role in international road transport. The agreements regulate, on the basis of reciprocity and mutual interest, the carriage of goods by road between the two countries and transit through our territory. There has been no bilateral agreement between Hungary and Azerbaijan on the carriage of goods and passengers by road, and it is therefore extremely important, my fellow Members, that we establish a legal framework for transport in relation to the two countries. [[18.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian-Azerian economic cooperation is intensifying, with more Hungarian companies and products appearing on the Azerbaijani market. Currently, some 130 medicines manufactured by Hungarian companies are available in Azerbaijan. The Azerbaijani Party seeks to strengthen its cooperation with the European Union not only in the field of energy but also in the field of transport, for example, because Azerbaijan's location is very favourable in this respect. This effort is indicated by the intensive negotiations to establish a strategic partnership between the European Union and the Republic of Azerbaijan. So, my fellow Members, it is of particular importance for the EU to build a good relationship with its neighbours, and the development of regional cooperation can have a positive impact on Europe's economic development. In the light of the above, I believe that the bill before us may have the support of the whole House, so I ask you to support it. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-200	Thank you very much. No other faction has set up a lead speaker. Independent congressman is not present. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Members' speeches may follow. I'm asking if anyone wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2018-02-20-201	Mr President, Allow me, within the framework of the Azerbaijani-Hungarian framework agreement, as my last speech in this parliamentary term, to thank the public of Parliament for their attention to the work of the government in the last term, and also for the support that the Prime Minister's Office has received from you. Thank you very much.
u2018-02-20-202	Thank you very much. I didn't know Kosovo was no longer yours. [[Defiance.]] But then Mr. Secretary of State Völner will be on the next item. We wish you good health and good nervous system. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo until closure. The government referral is T/1973. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo. The purpose of the Convention is to establish a procedural framework for extradition between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo. The Convention sets out the scope of extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, the central authorities designated to send and receive extradition requests, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request, and settle cases of transfer by a third State or of conflict of extradition requests. The Convention provides for the application of the principle of speciality, temporary arrest, transfer or deferral of the person, the institution of temporary extradition and transit. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The Convention also contains provisions on confiscation and transfer of objects, cost bearing, data protection, relations with other international treaties and dispute resolution. It is necessary to publish the Convention by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. Issues not covered by the Convention shall be governed by the provisions of the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters. The Convention shall enter into force only if the provisions of the Convention are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. Dear Parliament, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome back to my fellow Members. Here are the keynote speeches. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Member Richard Hörcsik. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, T/1973 on the publication of the Convention on Extradition between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo Introducing bill No.1, I believe it is a very important step between relations between the two countries. The Convention facilitates more effective joint action against international crime by allowing criminals wanted in one country to be issued by another country and preventing criminals fleeing one country from finding asylum in another country. The Convention also regulates the cases in which extradition may be refused. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal we are discussing includes not only the extradition of persons, but also the transfer of objects serving as evidence, as well as those found in the person who committed the crime. The convention before us regulates simultaneous requests between procedural issues, but also provides for the protection of personal data in addition to the procedure to be followed for the persons granted grace and the limitation period. Ladies and gentlemen, This Convention will help the two countries to further develop and strengthen the bilateral relationship system. As we have seen, Hungary's relations with Kosovo have been growing over the past period, so it is sensible to move forward in the criminal field as well. We therefore believe that it is a small step towards a strategic goal when we adopt this bill. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I can't see any sign on my monitor. That concludes the general debate. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, if he wishes to make use of the possibility of closing. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo on the publication of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons until closure. The government referral is T/1965. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-02-20-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish the Convention between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo on the transfer of sentenced persons. The purpose of the Convention is to establish rules for the transfer of sentenced persons between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo in order to allow them to serve their sentence in their own State in order to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. The Convention lays down the conditions for the transfer of sentenced persons, the documents to be sent for the purpose of carrying out the procedure, the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for transfer, the rules for transfer, the rules for the execution of the penalty received, the rules for information obligations between the parties and the sentenced person. The Convention provides for transit, use of languages, bearing costs, relations with other international treaties and dispute resolution. It is necessary to publish the Convention by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. Issues not covered by the Convention shall be governed by the provisions of the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters. The Convention shall enter into force only if the provisions of the Convention are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. Dear Parliament, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-02-20-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-02-20-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is my last speech as the lead speaker today, so I am trying to briefly sum up the T/1965 before us. Bill No. 1 on the House's table. By adopting this Act, Parliament authorises the recognition of the mandatory scope of a convention to further develop international cooperation in the field of criminal law. [[19.00]] As the Secretary of State has said, the indirect purpose of the Convention is to give foreigners deprived of their freedom as a result of the crime the opportunity to serve their punishment in their own society. The direct objective is to ensure the legal conditions for transit to their own countries that are necessary for the former. Please allow me to focus attention on just three important aspects of the bill. One is the principle of reciprocity on which the Convention is based. In addition to reciprocity, the proposal also provides, as a measure resulting from the abolition of the double penalty, that the party which carried out the penalty may no longer attempt to execute its final judgment after enforcement. Then the provision governing the framework for information between the parties is an essential part of the international conventions on criminal cooperation. In addition, the proposal before us regulates transit or transport from the territory of a third State. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, it should be pointed out that language use and cost bearing are also clarified in the usual manner in international treaties. I think it is important to emphasise here that Serbian and Albanian languages can be used equally in communication. Ladies and gentlemen, The contract before us was signed by the parties on 24 November 2017. However, there is another important date, which I believe it is important to recall before this House, because on 19 March it will be a decade since the Hungarian government recognised independent Kosovo. Contracting is a proven way of resolving issues between States as international legal entities. I believe that on such an important issue, such as the issue of transfer and the adaptation of judgments, there has been a timely need for a clear regulation of legal relations. Therefore, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Finally, Mr President, allow me to thank Mr President for his work throughout the cycle. As the last parliamentary day is slowly here, thank you for your cooperation.
u2018-02-20-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you very much for your last sentence. I hope that, in the coming period, we will still have a number of opportunities to listen to each other. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to close. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, since we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas, we are going to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Bence Tuzson from the Fidesz Group has applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Developments and Investments in the 5th Constituencies of Pest County." Congressman, Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-02-20-211	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. In recent times, as in the country as a whole, major developments have been made in the 5th constituency of Dunakeszin, Pest county. At Dunakeszin, Foton, Gödön, Csomad, Csömör and Forest Gardens, much was renewed. If we look at Dunakeszi alone, we can see that the city's image has changed in recent years. However, for my part, I consider that a new 24-room school could be added to the city. There have also been important investment in transport development and will continue in the next period. After all, the road between 2 and 2/A will be built soon, and the M2 highway will also be widened, making it easier for many to visit Budapest. In addition to Dunakeszi, of course, developments will take place in Göd, and improvements will also take place in the next period. From about HUF 2 billion, internal roads, internal transport, will be renewed from Göd State aid. During the next period, a 24-room school will be built here, and there will also be a swimming pool for the city, and a swimming pool where you can even practice diving in the next period. In addition, there were, of course, developments and developments in Foton. Let us not forget that one of the first works of Miklós Fóton van Ybl, the Catholic Church, which has a very important and artistic historical value, has been spent by the Hungarian state for HUF 500 million in recent years. In addition, the renewal of the Károlyi Castle in Fót has begun, partly starting. In addition, road renovations have taken place here, and there has been a lot of investment, and there will also be great progress in the area of transport development in the next period. Speaking of transport development, the Budapest-Vác railway line has been renewed and renewed, and in this area there will be a second-floor train in Hungary for the first time. These trains will be ready by 2019 and will be able to operate in this section from that date. In addition, in small settlements, Csomad, the renewal of the health home or the tearing down of several streets, serious improvements could have been made. Such improvements can also be mentioned in Veresegyháza, where, according to the government's latest decision, a Catholic school will be implemented. The Hungarian state provides HUF 2 billion in HUF 600 million in support. This is going to be a Catholic high school. In addition, public procurement is also under way for the expansion of the Reformed School. In addition, a number of investments are still being made in the area of health development. After all, along with Dunakeszi, where there is a 2 billion-dollar health development, the Mission will be renewed in Veresegyház, and the renewal of the health home will take place from 200 million forints in Csömör. So, the 5th Constituencies of Pest County has developed a great deal over the past few years, and it will continue to develop in the next period. I would like to thank the voters for their support in this work, because without the voters, without the citizens of the constituency of Dunakeszi, we could not have achieved these results. Dear Parliament, In the final speech of my first term, allow me to thank those without whom I could not have done this uplifting, responsible work, to succeed. I would like to thank my parents, Judit Kovács and Balázs Tuzson for raising me for the love of work and family. They taught me that without special performance, you can't achieve a special result. I thank my wife, Borbala Kassai, for being persistent and understanding towards me. Without his support, I could not speak here today, in front of you in the most beautiful parliament in Europe. Finally, I thank my children Barnabas, Emilia, Balázs and Dominkos for giving me strength and strength to work. For me, they're the compass and the standard. We work for Hungary, for the whole Hungarians, for the future of our children. I ask for the support of the Hungarian people. Thank you for listening.
u2018-02-20-212	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Thank you for keeping the minutes, thank you to the staff of the Parliamentary Office, thank you for the work of the notaries. Meeting day's closed. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you all a happy return, a restful good night.
