u2018-07-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The second day of the Fourth Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and László Varga will be here to assist me, whom I also welcome. I also welcome our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. Due to traffic difficulties, the agenda will not be presented in the same order as indicated, so I will ask Congresswoman Márta Demeter to start with her, because the person in front of her is still in traffic somewhere on the border of Budapest. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, very kind, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech:. Those who are not important to the government. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Voters, those who voted for us, and those who considered other parties to be supportive, rightly expect that in this Parliament, not only empty, self-serving political reflections should be heard, but also those issues and problems that they are struggling with in everyday life. And while the majority of individual Members today are coming out of Fidesz because of their own electoral system, we must honestly say that you do not represent the interests of local people, local affairs at all in Parliament and do not represent their interests. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Says the one who has never been elected.]] This situation is not acceptable, and it is only unacceptable because it further destroys people's faith in parliamentarianism, but not only for this reason it is unacceptable, but also because it is completely contrary to the very legitimate social need to finally be about people. In the Fidesz system, individual representatives do not represent local interests in the Parliament, but only the Fidesz party interests are represented locally. The only thing that the Fidesz MEPs have to do is re-enact the hate campaign by the Cabinet Ministry and the shadow cabinet behind it. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Stupid!]] display it as effectively as possible in their own constituencies. So Fidesz doesn't care about the local problems, and you don't care about the people there, except on the day of the election or the few weeks before that. But as they enter the Parliament, as the new Parliament was formed, you are clearly only the representatives of the Fidesz and not the representatives of their constituents. The LMP faction has decided to fight the umbilical-watching and, by the way, the only parliament on its own. In fact, if I want to use bigger words, I have to say that we are experimenting with representative democracy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There are fewer and fewer of you! István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] to restore it. In this session and in the subsequent period of the cycle, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why did Schiffer quit?]] We will only work to show local affairs, the local interests of the people here in Parliament, and to make suggestions for solutions. The purpose of Fidesz is to avoid having to answer specific questions at all, so that it can only be debated in general and in principle. In a few weeks since Parliament was established, it has been revealed that the governing party can say only general horse-zung for real and tangible problems. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What about Ron Werber's contract?]] by the way, no meaningful, concrete answer. We have confronted Fidesz in over a dozen local cases over the last two months, and in most cases the answer did not contain any specifics, and in many cases you have not even heard of these problems, so it is clear to you that the voters are not important. For example, you don't care about the residents who live in that building on Bihari Street in Stone Mine, which the Fidesz condemned to break down as a decent worker. [[Németh Szilárd István: Fidesz sentenced it to demolition?]] , families with small children who pay their bills and rent. They want to put them on the street, put sick people on the streets without giving them a place to change. When I asked you this in Parliament, all you were willing to talk about was the concept of eviction, and you didn't say a single word about the solution to the specific situation of families, even though we told you what the solution would be. It turns out that you don't care about the people of Pécs, to whom the Prime Minister personally promised not to build a dangerous nuclear cemetery near Bodan Pécs without asking them. From the government's response, when we asked this question, it turned out that they did not keep that promise at all, as did the situation of people living in the Ormany, where many poor people live. [[Péter Cseresnyés: No such thing has been said.]] They promised them that they would get the winter rent cut, because they were heating with wood, and it didn't turn out to be anything. Just as families who live in real estate, residential buildings that are full of asbestos that is dangerous to their health are not important to you. There are such buildings in Veszprém, Győr, Tatabánya, we have drawn attention to this many times, they are not willing to give any answer, they only analyze surveys, but there is no practical solution; as they do not deal with communities and problems that make people miserable because of the environmental damage of the Falco factory, or the dangerous waste on Gyömrő. We will continue this line for a long time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we will bring these matters here to Parliament, we will confront the government, and we will ask everyone outside the walls of the Parliament that they feel they are not represented in Parliament, that they want to bring their affairs to the House, that they will contact us, that we will keep the government accountable until [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're familiar with democracy, that's good news!]] they don't solve these problems. Thank you.
u2018-07-17-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-17-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think it is important that each faction thus determines, at the beginning of the cycle, what are its most important goals for the next four years; we have noted that LMP is also practically at the beginning of its own definition of role perception, and we take note of that. But I would ask you not to hold on to the electoral system that you did not appear as expected of your current party to put it this way. If the representatives of Fidesz had not dealt with local affairs and were not effective, they would not have been able to win more than 90 Fidesz places. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári and Péter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] born in the electoral districts, please take this into account. As far as local matters are concerned, you should be sure that all Members, locally elected representatives and government politicians deal with these problems, these matters. I would add, however, that the government freed the municipalities from debt of more than HUF 1300 billion, which means that the municipalities also have a greater opportunity to remedy these things. But since you have tried to attack the government in a large part of your speech, not to bring up local affairs, let me say that we have the feeling that the left often confuses its own hopeless situation with the state of the country, and that from such speeches you will miss out on the measures that will also help the local people, and, in general, all Hungarian families. And since we are voting on the budget this week, so allow me to list some of these results and measures, also because the budget that Parliament adopts is a good measure of the state of the country and of the local conditions. I would like to tell you that there will be more money in every key area next year, so, compared to this year, more than 100 billion more resources for health care will also be significantly increased for education. There is even greater difference when compared to left-wing governments: we spend more than 600 billion on education and more than 500 billion on health care, and it is not irrelevant for local people to spend half as much on debt repayment as in 2010. [[9.10]] And I am also very sorry that when you discuss the state of the country, you forget a number of measures that help hundreds of thousands of people. For example, it is a good thing that the tax relief of two children continues to increase to HUF 40,000. After all, it is a good thing that 240 billion forints will be available for a home creation programme, and if you look at the numbers, this will also be a huge help in the countryside, especially if you know that there is much more specific support for the construction of the house, such as the ten million forints. After all, it is a good thing everywhere in the country that employers' taxes are falling to 17.5 percent. When your former party was on the government, 27 percent of the employer's tax was still on the payroll, now this is 17.5 percent, which is important because it offers a greater opportunity for further wage increases in all parts of the country. I can give you many more examples. [[Márta Demeter: What I said, answer the questions, Mr. Secretary.]] but these measures, which you can vote on this week, show the picture of a country that is gradually growing. And if I look at your party's suggestions, it's a pretty terrible picture, because we know they're pushing for two-key taxes. [[Márta Demeter: Tell this to the people concerned!]] We know very well, and we also know that support for home creation has been targeted. I am telling you this because you are referring to local affairs, but the fact is that if this policy were to be implemented, Hungarian families would be put at a disadvantage in every part of the country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And if we add their proposal for a basic income, which also exists, then the picture is even worse, because we see that they would bring back a period where it was more worthwhile to live on aid instead of work. So, after such a precedent, we can safely say that left parties, regardless of which parties they are, are the same as the Bourbons, have learned nothing, true, nothing forgotten; they really want to bring back a period where it was much more worthwhile to live on welfare instead of work. [[Márta Demeter: You've got the wrong house, Mr. Secretary.]] I think that the country deserves a more responsible left and a more responsible opposition. Either way, the government is doing its job, regardless of whether you can count on the support of MSZP and LMP and other left-wing parties in these matters. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the group of the MSZP - Future Enemy? Mr Attila Mesterházy spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Against the Future? So I have an exact address for my speech before today's agenda. This refers to the fact that, as Mr Secretary of State has spoken here, he has partly affected the budget, and I would like to say a few thoughts on this too. A lot of people have appreciated this budget in many ways, mostly based on numbers, of course, because the budget provides the basis for many other things, and it is true that, in addition to the Constitution, this is perhaps the most important law of this House that we can adopt, so there is a reason to talk about it for a long time, and we need to consider the success or effectiveness of a budget in many ways. My colleagues have also identified a great deal of danger during the debate, which is due to planning, but which is due to a change in international circumstances. It is enough to refer here to the US central bank or to the changed policy of the European Central Bank. But it is worth paying attention to the trade war that is about to unfold between the European Union and the US or even China, because one of our most important trading partners, Germany, is very heavily involved, and how the German economy is performing has a very strong impact on the Hungarian economy. But we could also mention the different crisis signs or the Brexit, which will also have an impact on these international financial conditions. However, I do not want to spend a very long time with these, but I would like to approach this issue from a completely different aspect, because the budget can be assessed not only on the basis of what numbers are in it, what balance comes out of it, but on what effect it has or what values it reflects. It is clear that this budget reflects distorted social policy values, because if you look at the figures, the result will be that in Hungary the wealthy and the rich will be richer and the poorer will be in even worse situations, so the income scissors that should be reduced, which has increased in recent years during your governance, will certainly increase in the years to come. It is clear that this reflects the social policy that has always been Fidesz's own. It's a perverted social policy about how to help the privileged even more and leave the poor alone. As left-wingers, as social democrats, we believe that redistribution is necessary, because a welfare state can then be built, and the welfare state is an important tool for capitalism to benefit not only capitalists, but not just capitalists, which is why the best way to build a welfare state where everyone can expand their own talents is to achieve what they desire if their work is accompanied by sufficient diligence and ability in their life. Therefore, from our perspective, the fact that the proportion of welfare expenditure as measured by GDP will fall again in this budget is certainly bad news. The fact that in health care, education or the social field, even if nominally the figures rise, but this current budget does not solve the problem, also means that you do not want to make significant progress in these areas. If we do not spend enough forints on education, health and social space, then the welfare state will also suffer, and very few of those economic successes or positive conditions you have told us in Hungary will certainly be able to benefit. It is therefore very important from our point of view how much this budget, social ascent, and mobility channels help the vulnerable to develop talent, as I have just said, whether it provides a high quality long life or serves the opportunity to do so, and that it will also provide security for those in need. Based on the value-based approach, I have to say that the answer to these questions is no, which is why, not only because the opposition generally rejects the government budget, but also because of the ideology, the world view and the values, we cannot accept and support this budget, in which the left-wings, the social democrats believe. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-17-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, I apologize for misjudged the title of his speech before the agenda, but I am bound by the script and as described in the script. But thank you for fixing it. So, as I said, Parliamentary Secretary András Tállai responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-17-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Since 2010, the Hungarian government has stabilized the country's economic and financial situation and has conducted responsible budgetary management. I think that the deficit in public finances is constantly decreasing, and so is the level of public debt and that sustained economic growth has been achieved. These economic achievements, behind which there is a huge achievement on the part of the country, on the part of the people, on the part of businesses, are establishing the budget that the government has now submitted to the Parliament by 2019. This budget sets out four important objectives. On the one hand, the security of Hungary must be preserved. Sustained economic growth must be maintained, since sustained economic growth is the basis for our prosperity. We must continue to support families, which is a fundamental thesis of Fidesz-KDNP's policy. Full employment must be achieved. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, It is important in relation to the Member's speech that he was also a member of the previous socialist governments, and he was involved in the results of the efforts to stress how much more resources are available for the organisation of services in some areas than during the MSZP governments. In the field of education, we will spend 606 billion more than in 2010, with HUF 505 billion on health, with 415 billion on public security and defence. Local governments receive 453 billion HUF more public support. Continuing to break down the government's economic results and define the 2019 budgetary targets, it is very important to point out that the country has been achieving higher economic growth than the EU average for years and that the same trend should continue with the 4.1 percent target for 2019. With a deficit of 1.8 per cent of GDP, I think that we have and can achieve outstanding results at international level. The government is planning a 2.7 percent inflation rate in its budget. An important objective is to ensure a zero balance in the budget area. I would like to turn to income policy, one of the areas that the Member has said. In the area of income policy, the government has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of the results of recent years, as real wages have been steadily increasing for years. This has several components, on the one hand making personal income tax a single rate of 15%, which is the second smallest amount in the European Union. The 9 percent corporate tax stands out because it is the lowest in terms of the European Union. Turning to income policy: if the Member were right, the figures that the level of consumption in Hungary has been increasing for years would not be true, that the purchasing value of pensions has remained or even increased for years. There are, of course, serious government measures, the introduction of career models by the government and the long-term economic growth already mentioned. It is important that the government offers free resources to businesses with falling public burdens, while at the same time increasing the resources allocated to public administration, education and health. This is the objective of the 2019 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm The 180th move of the MNB! Mr Tamás Mellar, on behalf of the Group of Dialogue, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last week, the Competitiveness Council examined and discussed the 180-step programme of the National Bank. I could start now with why the government has just started to address the issue of competitiveness, eight years later, and then I could also suggest why, after spending thousands of billion forints of EU funding, or even considering why the MNB is dealing with this issue, since the MNB is not responsible for the creation of general economic policy, its area of impact is monetary policy. But let's not get stuck with these things, let's look at the facts and look at the material itself. By the way, I think that this 180-point material put on the table by the Hungarian National Bank gives a very good assessment of the situation. Hats off to the makers! If someone really wants to know what Hungary looks like here and now, then it is worth reading this material. In this material, however, we are talking about the potential growth rate of the Hungarian economy at 1.4 percent, that productivity is very low, that education, especially with regard to the higher education system, is particularly bad, that the health system is not effective, and on issues such as this, which we also said in the budgetary debate, but without result. What I have a problem with is that after a good assessment, there is no good therapy. When we continue to read this material, we can see that a wish list comes together, that it would be good to have serious changes here and there, but what mechanisms, what economic policy measures would be necessary for this, are not written down. I had a feeling of déjà vu, because this story is very similar to what the Gyurcsány government had done in the period before the crisis, when it put together 100-point programmes and 41-step programmes without actually thinking about what mechanisms would be needed to achieve this. However, there are three things in the MNB's file that are very missing. Allow me to say these three important points only at the level of mention, also because I am deeply convinced that there is no breakthrough change in the area of competitiveness without these three things. The first is that the government should move away from this illiberal concept of state and the application of anti-democratic solutions as soon as possible, because economic history and development economics have shown on several occasions that successful modernisation and successful development can only take place in countries where social and economic institutions are inclusive and do not have a monopoly character. So only a political system can be truly competitive that ensures that they are inclusive institutions. The other very important thing is that we should agree with society. It is very important that we do not divide Hungarian society into two parts, Fidesz sponsors and Fidesz opponents, because on this basis again the most important problems cannot be solved. Education and health are very important areas of competitiveness, and this is also apparent from the MNB material, but it is only possible to imagine reforms that build on a broad consensus, so where pro-government and opposition representatives and experts decide jointly what reform should be, and then these reforms should be put into a social debate, because these reforms will have to last 10-15 years, because otherwise there will be no results. Therefore, without a broad consensus, lasting competitiveness cannot be imagined. Finally, the third thing is that instead of opening in the south and the east, we should return to the west, because it is also a proven fact that 1100 years proved that Hungary was able to advance, it was able to successfully modernise if it was integrated in the western division of labour system, and it was able to apply and use this technology transfer properly. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-17-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As opposed to your claim, I can say that the government is constantly dealing with improving competitiveness, so this is not a recent issue. I'd like to prove that with a few thoughts. Improving competitiveness is at the heart of government's economic policy, so that there is a dynamic economic growth in Hungary, and we can create its conditions. As a result of successful financial and macroeconomic consolidation since 2010, we can produce very serious results, so the general government deficit is constantly below or even significantly below 3 per cent of GDP. [[9.30]] The same is true for reducing public debt, improving financial balance, but we can say low inflation, decreasing financing costs have created stable financial and macroeconomic conditions for economic growth. As a result of continued economic policy, we can produce results statistically already in an international comparison. For example, in the global competitiveness ranking of the World Economic Forum, published last autumn, Hungary advanced 9 seats, while Hungary's position improved by 5 places in the ranking of IMD published in May this year. I think these are sufficient evidence that the government is achieving significant results in this area and intends to continue to improve these results. It is important that the government has established the National Competitiveness Council. The National Competitiveness Council consists of recognised experts in economic and scientific life. From an economic competitiveness point of view, serious initiatives have been taken by the Competitiveness Council. The Competitiveness Council also brings together proposals to improve competitiveness, including proposals made by the Hungarian National Bank, but also proposals from other ministries, ITM and PM. For example, the functioning of the Competitiveness Council created the exemption of company registration, registration of new businesses by local tax authorities, faster and cheaper connection to small businesses, but the Competitiveness Council also initiated the preparation of their electronic tax returns by NAV for businesses. The Competitiveness Council will process all proposals, as I said, including the National Bank of Hungary. It is worth giving some thought to the proposals of the Hungarian National Bank. It is very important that the Hungarian National Bank also confirms that economic catch-up cannot be based solely on low labour costs in the longer term, only productivity-driven catching-up can be successful. In order to improve productivity, we need a motivated workforce. The Hungarian National Bank encourages the growth of wages, companies to improve their productivity and the use of advanced technologies. At the same time, it gives us the opportunity to gradually reduce the tax on work, of course with a budgetary balance. I'll reassure Congressman because he said there would be no therapy. After all, these materials will be collected by the National Competitiveness Council and will be presented to the government by a complex substance in the interest of the entire economy, the whole country, which the government will discuss and possibly submit to Parliament in the form of legislative proposals and legislative amendments. Thus, the improvement of competitiveness from a government point of view is ongoing, with the aim of further increasing the country's economic performance. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-17-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Mr Imre László, from the DK Group, entitled The Enforcement of Patients' Rights in Hungary, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It's the 21st, isn't it? We live in the century, which means that patients have or should have certain rights. Patients' rights include very important areas such as the right to health care, human dignity, contact, information, self-determination, refusal of care, knowledge of medical documentation, medical confidentiality, leaving the institution and proceeding with complaints. Another question is, of course, the extent to which these rights are enforced or how well patients are able to enforce them. In this area, I must confess to you that we are not doing well. According to a survey carried out, most often, 42 percent of the time, the right to health care is violated, followed by a 28-percent violation of the right to human dignity. Quite often, in 15 percent of cases, there is also an infringement of the right to information. Article 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states, and I quote, that, when defining and implementing all Union policies and activities, a high level of human health protection must be ensured. The European Union's Charter of Patients' Rights, which was adopted in Rome in 2002, also adds to this:. The obligation to ensure a high level of human health protection covers both human and social levels, in order to ensure that national governments aim not only at establishing a minimum level but also at achieving higher standards. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, Hungary does not comply with the provisions of the Patient Rights Charter on public health. The government has set up a privileged system of luxury conditions for its own elite until it has left citizens with a network of services that is under-doted, without minimum professional standards. I can see the surprise, by the way, but may I remind you that a significant part of the Hungarian hospitals, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs' former health secretary, does not even admit to meeting the minimum conditions, because of the lack of numbers or the missing instruments or the state of the buildings. In Budapest, they want to create a top-class, so-called super-hospital with breathtaking costs, which also takes over the tasks of the Kútvölgyi VIP supply. This violates the right to access under point 2 of the Charter of Patients' Rights, according to which all persons have the right to access to their healthcare. This access is guaranteed for all, regardless of the financial or geographical situation and regardless of the type of disease or the duration of treatment. In addition, point 8 of the European Charter for the Rights of Patients states that every person has the right to quality care, taking into account quality standards. Civil society organisations and the heads of health institutions have a privileged role to play in the enforcement of patients' rights. An important task lies with the institution of the Ombudsman, as well as with legal organisations and courts. On the other hand, the 2011 After a change of government, when selecting the members of the heads of institutions and professional colleges, professional compliance was replaced by political reliability, but the functioning of civil society organisations so important for the enforcement of patients' rights was also cut off. Today's highly bureaucratic systems are considered to be a real Hungaricum if they act in reverse to protect the state against patients and patients' rights. The Democratic Coalition is committed to an independent patient rights system that operates on a European model, in which civil society organisations must play an important role and should be given rights to be able to quickly and effectively assist in the enforcement of patient interests. Financial funds guaranteeing the independence of operations should be provided through independent resources or budgetary automation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-07-17-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What you have quoted from the international charters, honourable Member, is supported by everyone and everyone is working to achieve it. There are, of course, governments that work against this, and there are governments that work for patient rights. When you talked about and quoted the sick charter about the importance of access to health care, you could, for example, think back to the moments when four hospitals in Hungary, the Szabolcs Street Hospital, the Svábhegy Children's Hospital, OPNI, Schöpf-Mere Hospital were closed. Did this improve access or make it worse? We think he made it worse. [[9.40]] But you didn't speak back then, you supported that government, and you're sitting in their faction. You, on the other hand, fought for the visit fee, which also does not improve access to health care, but hinders access to healthcare. He supported hospital daily allowances, which are obviously not intended for human rights to be fulfilled, so that someone can calculate the hospital's daily allowance for another day and stay in the hospital. But I don't think it was used to inform patients when 6,000 medical workers were laid off or when 16,000 active hospital beds were laid down. I wouldn't think that it served human rights when you took one month's wages from all Hungarian nurses and all Hungarian doctors. They have worked against these fundamental rights precisely. On the other hand, we strive to help patients both in everyday practice and in the representation of patients' rights, precisely so that patients, beneficiaries, children's rights in an integrated legal protection system can be implemented as much as possible, both in terms of signaling, evaluation and proposal. We can say that both in receiving hours, letters, telephones and e-mails are available to patient rights representatives as well as in the central complaint office, and can be caught up with free green numbers, precisely to ensure that patients' rights prevail. That's why we started a poster campaign in every inpatient institution with a variety of information material. A total of 500,000 posters have been posted in Hungarian health institutions so that all patients are aware of their own rights. From this you can see that there is an increase in the number of people turning to the integrated legal protection service, the patient's representation, because there is greater trust, you can see what is available, there is greater confidence in their direction. Thus, last year, a total of 28 322 notifications were evaluated, of which the patient's rights were 14,622, and the rest were legal submissions on children's rights and rights. So I think that we have also tried to strengthen both the specific system of patient rights representation and the more respectful nature of health itself in respect of patients' rights. This is what next year's budget is for, because if I compare the budget presented by the last left-wing government and the budget we are voting on this week, the difference between the two in healthcare for patients is HUF 647 billion, if you will. We have 647 billion reasons why patients' fundamental rights and people's basic expectations in relation to health now prevail more than in your time. Let's not forget, you've even taken out 200 billion forints from the Health Insurance Fund. In recent years, the Health Insurance Fund is no longer around HUF 1300-1400 or HUF 1500 billion, but is over HUF 2000 billion. It is also important that next year's budget includes a surplus of HUF 42 billion for hospital development in Budapest and Pest County, and it also serves patient rights at the moment of our birth that the total budget for this year's and next year's budget for the development of family-friendly obstetrics amounts to HUF 5-5 billion. Or it is also for patients' rights to know how long it takes for them to get some kind of treatment, some kind of medical procedure. If someone was waiting for cataract surgery in 2012, they would have to wait 324 days, now it's 95 days. Patient rights are better served by waiting a third of the time for cataract surgery. But even in a spinal stabilization operation, you kept the patients waiting for 514 days, which is now a fraction of that, almost 300 days. In a knee replacement surgery, you've waited 704 days for patients' rights to prevail, now it's only 329 days until you've had patients waiting for 459 days for hip replacement surgery, now it's a lot less than 274 days. We believe that the additional resources that were included in the waiting list reduction programme, for example, amounted to HUF 20 billion, have succeeded in achieving real patient rights. So let's say that cataract surgery in Hungary is shorter than in the Netherlands and Italy, and all other European countries are behind Hungary, but in hip replacements or knee replacements in the 8th or 9th place. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We are in the European aggregate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-17-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group, why is the government on the side of the banks? Mr János Volner spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you are most certainly aware, there has been a historic breakthrough in Croatia in the settlement of foreign exchange loans. The Croatian Supreme Court annulled credit agreements on Swiss franc foreign exchange loans for several reasons. One of the first and most important reasons was that banks did not adequately inform their clients about the risks of foreign exchange loans. I ask you, in Hungary, there was no need for the government to take a Croatian sample in the last eight years in relation to this point. In many cases, untrained credit managers used to transfer foreign exchange loans to people, who, not out of spite, but because of their lack of professional qualifications, did not know exactly what risks they were delivering to their customers. First of all, it should be noted that such a type of credit, such as that carried out in Hungary under the name of foreign exchange lending, is unfit to conclude permanent, long-term and even 20-year credit agreements. It is permanent, because for 20 years the exchange rate may change very much when measuring the currencies together, the repayments may change very much, and very often what the banks have not said at all, and unfortunately, the Hungarian public speech rarely talks about it, but the Croatians have made a unilateral change in interest rates. Years earlier, even here in the National Assembly, we have repeatedly said that we have compared the interest rates on Swiss franck-based loans taken at one time in Poland and Hungary. In Hungary, it has been seen that credit lenders have been obliged to pay twice, three times as much interest in recent years as a Polish foreign exchange taxer. Think about it, fellow Members, with a Swiss franc of around 3 per cent, an interest rate of around 3 per cent for Swiss francs loans, and then later, in the years of the crisis, it went up to 9-10 per cent or more, this significant interest rate change could not be traced by customers. By the way, many would have been able to bear the burden of up to one-and-a-half-fold higher exchange rate changes, not being able to bear the interest rate change that the government unscrupulously allowed the banks to pass on to their unfortunate foreign exchange-debt clients. Now, let's also look at how the government dealt with this foreign exchange-credit problem later: it introduced the exchange-rate barrier. What did that mean? For five years, the difference was paid in a separate account. It's not missing, it's interest-bearing, burdening foreign exchange taxpayers. In no small part, it is due to this fact that it is still a burning problem in Hungary, almost a decade after the flash of the foreign exchange credit problem. And then there was his end-of-life facility. Interestingly, the government didn't help the most needy layers with this either, it didn't help them, it helped the banks, the rich customers, who didn't otherwise have any problems in paying the repayments of the loans. Then there was one of the biggest insolences committed in government circles in recent years: the exchange of foreign currency loans into forints, which the government's communication machine could communicate by saving foreign exchange credit families from the trap of foreign currency lending. What happened, fellow Members? At the market rate, loans were converted from one moment to the next, virtually from the former foreign currency loan trap to the future forint-loan trap, virtually nothing was solved by the government. What are we looking at now? There are unsolved problems, even though the Supreme Court in Croatia has shown that the foreign exchange-credit problem can be settled by a single blow, such as the Gordian knot, if it has a government intention. Apparently, the Orbán government has no intention of taking a big step in this matter. Apparently, the Orbán government has sided with banks, not with their looted foreign exchange creditors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[9.50]]
u2018-07-17-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 2018, the financial crisis started in 2008. To say that nothing has happened in Hungary for the benefit of foreign exchange taxpayers is a very strong slide. From 2010 onwards, the government has constantly facilitated the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers. By the way, I note to the Member that the Croatian Government has done nothing, that the Croatian court has decided on a specific case in which you quote [[Németh Szilárd István: That's right, exactly!]] And there the people still have the task of attacking those contracts after all this time. [[István Szilárd Németh: But they know that!]] they can prove that they have not been properly informed. By the way, if this was to be a judicial criticism, it was also open to the Hungarian courts, but in recent years they have not been able to establish in a way similar to that of Croatian that they have not informed the people. Yesterday you asked me the same question, and I also informed Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa that the Member was not in there at the time, so you do not know what the answer was that the contract was concluded in Hungary before a notary in mortgage loans, and the notaries always read the contents of the documents, explain to the parties its legal content [[György Szilágyi: This is bullshit!]] In contrast, to carry out a judicial evidence and prove that the information was inadequate, it would require a very strong applicant's attitude and proof, for which there was no precedent in Hungary, and could not prove it. That is why, from 2010, the government had to continue to take debt relief measures, which indeed included end-payments; this may be a bad feeling for the Member that 170 thousand families have succeeded in bailing us out of the debt trap. It also includes the fact that we managed to get the banks to account, and in fact, accounting made it more than HUF 800 billion worth of money that required banks to ease the burden on debtors. The repayments fell by 20-25 percent to the debtors. The settlement account that the Member is talking about... forgets that the interest rate differential that has been cleared has been involved by the State and the banks, so that that burden is not entirely borne by the debtors; it has been a state guarantee, so that the debtors have been able to repay at a fixed rate. So there have been countless public engagements to prevent the foreign exchange crisis from affecting the Hungarian population. Only if we talk about the scale: if everyone in Croatia is supposed to start this particular lawsuit, we are talking about 120,000 debtors and everyone wins the lawsuit, it will cost the banks there more than 400 billion forints. In Hungary, the situation of debtors was eased by more than HUF 1000 billion. You call that "doing nothing"? ! I would refer back to the fact that this is only a compliment to the work of the government and this parliamentary majority, and on this basis, for example, they started in Croatia, perhaps even more bravely, even in the course of judicial decisions. However, I must tell you that unfortunately we have not received exclusive support from the opposition side. It was a number of easing steps, let us consider the extension of the eviction moratorium in 2013, which, for example, your party president, Gábor Vona, did not vote for, but in the same way we can talk about left-wing or even LMP Members, who also sabotaged debt relief measures here in Parliament. More than a million families in Hungary today would be in a much more difficult situation if you had been able to resolve this issue. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are a lot of accusations against the current government in the courts, when, for example, we are amending or allowing the establishment of a high administrative court in the current Fundamental Law to place the government on the courts. These cases also prove that the government has no influence on the decision of the courts, since it is necessary to establish these measures for the rescue of debts, and this Parliament must vote in favour. Therefore, the Hungarian courts could not reach the same conclusion on the basis of other legal facts as the Croatian Supreme Commercial Court. Once again, the way in which we carried out the settlement was a general relief, a relief for everyone, freeing the debtors from the need to go to trial, throwing themselves into additional costs. Of course, you may not be interested in this, because it's a very fashionable topic to say [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The government didn't help people with foreign exchange credit, but I dare say we did the most for them in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, ▪ How does human dignity prevail in lawmaking? Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, spoke before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-07-17-21	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We are nearing the end of the long extraordinary session, and it is good to look back on the last few weeks, the legislative work that we have done together, and to ask the question of how our spirituality prevails in this work. In a different way, I could also say that the creation of an orderly world is what legislative amendments were meant to serve human dignity. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: None! They serve you.]] The congresswoman said that an orderly world and human dignity are against each other. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I didn't say that! Learn to talk and listen.]] What I would like to prove now is that the creation of an orderly world is not only not contrary to it, but it is in man's interest and also serves human dignity. Let's start with a question where people who don't know what this is about... [[The sound's gonna stop.]]
u2018-07-17-22	Mr. Team Leader! Mr. Team Leader, I'm sorry, I need you to adjust your microphone, please, because it's breaking up a little bit. Thank you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's okay. Péter Harrach's microphone still doesn't work.]] Here's to the head of the faction, carrying a spare microphone. [[It's happening.]] Time is, of course, included. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader, proceed.
u2018-07-17-23	[[Still no audio in the room.]] So, to protect the order and purity of the public domain. That this is necessary, that is natural to everyone, and that it serves the human dignity of the affected, the homeless, too, is obvious, but it is also about the people who travel there. [[Noise.]] But it is also true, I must say, when I pressed the button in this vote, I also decided that we would deal with the problems of these people, with the help of real civil society organisations. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let me ask you another question: the protection of home and privacy. Obviously, we must defend freedom of expression and expression, but it is also obvious that everyone has the right to protect the safety of their own home and their privacy. Maybe no one's questioning that either. Another issue is the strengthening of self-defense. Mass inflow is the greatest threat to both Hungary and Europe. Those who promote it cannot be a community, but our own people, the population of the country, must be protected, but the real persecuted must be helped. So this is the dual responsibility in this area as well. Hungary's assistance in helping persecuted people in their own country is particularly commendable. Or let us take another example - the protection of Christian culture. We must make a distinction between Christian faith and its practice and Christian culture. We do not want to force Christian faith on anyone, but we must defend the Christian culture in Europe. This is about our common values, our way of life, our customs, our holidays, but unfortunately, there are Europeans who have refused to do so and are helping to create a foreign and conquering culture. This is why we need to protect Christian culture in particular today. [[10.00]] Let us look forward for a moment, for in the autumn we continue our work on how the values that I have tried to bring together with the work of the past period prevail in the planned autumn legislative work. First of all, we would like to amend certain laws for the sake of families that are impossible, and if my fellow Member has already mentioned those with foreign exchange credit, it is not just about them, but it is also about all families that are impossible for other reasons. Measures have been taken so far, and I am thinking of reducing the abuses of implementation, introducing bankruptcy protection or eviction moratorium. But I'd like to mention three more topics. One is the settlement of the care fee; there is a great need for this and it is indeed necessary. The other is the extension of the possibilities of bankruptcy protection; this was the original intention, and now it is achieved. And finally, a lighter way of repaying those who are in a serious situation. I hope that, beyond that, efficiency will partly prevail, and partly the creation of an orderly world, and the validation of human dignity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Fraction Manager replied to his speech before the agenda by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-25	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The system is not good! Interventions from opposition parties: He can't stand this either!]]
u2018-07-17-26	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to advise me; you have checked in once today, you have not changed, you have spoken, so your card is in place, I can see that. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Should have paid the bill! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The system is not good!]] Fellow Members! Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, will you wait for me to tell you what this is about? If you wait, you'll get the right information, there's no need to disturb Parliament's meeting. I'd like to tell you that there's a problem with the computer system at the moment, they're going to restart it. So, my fellow Members will only be able to talk about moving microphones. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-17-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, In recent years, the government has opened up questions and provided answers to decades of problems or current problems that Hungarian governments, the Hungarian Parliament, could not answer for decades, or even the leaders of the European Union, the leaders of the European Member States, dared not give an honest answer in 2015. These were the issues that you yourself have said about the extent to which privacy extends and how, under the new technical conditions, the protection of the private sector should be extended to the digital world, the digital space. After all, even our fellow Members here today, but even more so, the children of our fellow Members live a good part of their lives in the digital space, and there were no levels of protection, legal protection that have already been achieved in physical, real life. Therefore, the various harassments or abuses that were already regulated in non-vitro reality, in reality, were also important in their extension to virtual reality. But it was also taboo or indispensive, as Fidesz-KDNP began to represent human dignity for the first time in legislation in 2015 in such a way that it put the protection of Europeans first in line. We thought that the rights of people living here were as important as the rights of people who often came to Europe in violation of the law, mass, European legislation and European culture, not respecting Christian culture. That is why there have been taboo, formal decisions in the last few cycles, in the last eight years, and in this year. The attitude of the opposition is that when Fidesz-KDNP presents these proposals, they oppose them with teeth and nails, with fire and iron. Then, when a year or two pass, these laws not only enter into force, but we can already feel their consequences in society, then suddenly the opposition's position is reversed, and they also remember that for example, they supported or even asked for their extension of 40 or so women. It will be no different with the laws adopted in this extraordinary session. What the opposition parties opposed here in the parliamentary debates, I am sure that in 2022, in the election campaign, they will say that these positive effects would have all been induced by them themselves and more. I therefore believe that Fidesz-KDNP is on the right track, because the opposition also remembers its own votes differently a few years apart. However, one of the most important laws in this session, which we have adopted or adopted, is the law which directs the budget. I believe that this is also an important help and important reinforcement for Hungarian families. In recent years, whether in the Fundamental Law or in other laws, we have tried to strengthen Hungarian families, because we believe that if families grow up in Hungary, Hungary will grow stronger, and if Hungarian families are strong, then a more balanced generation can grow up in them. It is therefore also important for a balanced adult or for a more balanced next generation to be stable and strong Hungarian families. We do not believe in the instruments in which previous Balliberal governments have always believed that when there was a problem in the economy, there is a need to resort to austerity. This has always been the recipe for the IMF or Brussels, and we have never accepted it. We have received a lot of cuffs for this, but the electorate has two-thirds confirmation that we are on the right track when we are not pursuing this austerity policy. For this reason, almost HUF 400 billion is available for family tax and contributions in the following year as well, HUF 242 billion for home creation. We have already been able to help 75,000 families, and this is a similar amount of help for the coming years, and I believe that these steps have resulted in not only family support, but also wages, which have increased by 51 percent in Hungary over the past six years. This is what we want, this kind of strengthening and helping of human dignity in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Bóna of the Fidesz Group spoke before the agenda on the UN migration pact. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As is well known to many of us, on Friday, July 13th, the UN member states agreed on the text of the global migration package of the global organisation, which will be formally adopted in mid-December at the Marrakesh summit of Heads of State and Government in Morocco. However, the final text is unfortunately contrary to the interests of Hungary and Europe as a whole. It imposes obligations on Member States which migrants can rightly interpret as an invitation and the implementation of which could generate new waves of immigration of millions. The package is clearly pro-immigration and, as such, is equal to the implementation of the Soros plan, with which the whole population of Europe can change. Even though more and more people in European countries are speaking out against migration, they still want to push migration and migrants on a global level. The UN Pact seeks to recognise migration as a fundamental human right, legalise illegal immigration and spend more money on financing migration flows. It presents migration as clearly desirable and to be supported, and considers it an appropriate response to demographic and labour market challenges. It also states that no distinction can be made between the local population and migrants. It's no coincidence that the U.S. government of Donald Trump left the preparations completely last year. Nikki Haley, U.N. Ambassador, then made it clear that immigration decisions should be made by the Americans themselves, and that no one else should interfere. And that's exactly what we think. The Hungarian government does not support changing the population of different countries, because we want Hungary for our children and grandchildren as well. On the other hand, George Soros' foundation, the Open Society, was lobbying in New York just these days, and, as it turned out from a recording, they continue to struggle to change the Hungarian immigration policy. It is a clear fact that there are at least 2 thousand employees working in Hungary who are committed to Plan Soros, as the head of the Soros Financial Fund itself has spoken about this. [[10.10]] This network includes immigration support organisations such as the Helsinki Committee, Amnesty, Migration Aid, TASZ, Transparency, which all contribute to migration in some way. Today, we can say that Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world, but we must therefore be very careful to keep it that way. Security is not self-evident when 29 terrorist attacks have been committed in Europe over the last three years, causing hundreds of European deaths. The Hungarians have repeatedly expressed their conviction that Hungary does not want to become an immigrant country, and therefore we spend more money than ever on security measures and development of forces. By 2024 Hungary will surely fulfil its 2 percent defence-related commitment thanks to the Zrínyi 2026 defence and military development programme. We also started a comprehensive force reform because we want to live in a country where the interests and rights of the Hungarian people are the most important, where our children can grow up in peace and security. [[It's constant noise.]] I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that, since the UN Global Migration Package will be binding on the Member States, Hungary needs to step out of the process of adoption, making it clear that it does not regard itself in any way as guiding any of the measures and guidelines of the package. Therefore, we sincerely hope that, following the United States, Hungary will also withdraw from the UN's comprehensive migration document. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because because of the disruption of the computer system, it is not possible to understand the speeches perfectly. Mr President, on behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-31	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to recall some numbers to all of us. There is also an estimate by the British Ministry of Defence and NATO that only 20-25 million people from the sub-Saharan region of Africa, sub-Saharan, from the region of Sahara, are preparing to leave their country and head for Europe. But the United Nations itself's most conservative estimate speaks of 30-35 million people who can start from Africa and the Middle East. According to other calculations, this figure is 50-60 million, and we didn't even talk about the later period. This global migration package, which Mr President spoke about and the first version of which was started on 5 February, is a very unbalanced and extremely dangerous document. It is dangerous because migration is described as a positive, useful and unstoppable process and, more dangerous, it would impose obligations on Member States, which, as Mr President said, could be interpreted as an invitation by migrants who wish to move towards Europe, and this will generate a new wave of immigration. Only three dangerous findings from the document: all countries should provide the same services as citizens to migrants. Continuous information provision and permanent communication should be provided to migrants. Training must be provided to migrants before they leave and after they arrive. This would mean that a Hungarian person who has worked and paid taxes for decades in Hungary and an illegal migrant arriving at a border crossing would be subject to the same rules and would be entitled to the same services. This is unacceptable to us, Hungary, and Hungary will never adopt such provisions. The most important and dangerous thing is that, contrary to previous claims, this global migration package would be a reference point that would be incorporated into international legislation, and that is precisely why it requires each country to draw up its own national programme for the application and implementation of the package's measures. We are well aware of this from the practice of the European Union, and the same game was played with regard to quotas. It was suggested that Hungary should withdraw from the negotiation process, like the United States, as was the case with the US decision, but then Hungary was in favour of staying, because this stay allowed us to make suggestions. However, during the negotiations it has been demonstrated that there is no possibility of incorporating text versions, proposals. Therefore, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó will propose to the government that Hungary no longer participate in the adoption process of this document. This extreme anti-immigration package is completely contrary to common sense, to the security interests of Hungary, because it does not care about the fundamental human rights of people, the right of people who wish to live in safe and peaceful conditions in their own country. The Hungarian government's position has remained unchanged since 2015; we say that the migration process creates a bad, unmanageable situation, parallel societies can develop, there is a terrorist attack, security risks are increasing, and more and more crimes are following illegal migration. As Mr President said, 29 terrorist attacks have been carried out in Europe since the start of the migration process, the crisis, and the number of victims exceeds 330, and the number of injured has been 1300. Migration must therefore not be organised, it must not be controlled, it must be stopped, and it must be stopped as soon as possible. Our firm position is to help those who choose illegal migration to live a decent life where they were born, and to help them to live safely and under the right conditions at the nearest safe place to their homeland if the war situation does not allow it. We Hungarians want a Hungarian country and we want a European Europe, because we believe that only we Hungarians can decide who we let into the country, our country, and who we want to live with. Migration can and must be stopped, as is the Hungarian decision: effective border protection. We do not accept the view that border protection is an optional task. The Hungarian government is committed and will continue to protect Hungary and the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Everybody sit down, put your card in your computer, because we're gonna restore the computer system. This could take two or three minutes. During this time, I would ask my fellow Members to remain silent and to sit in their seats in a disciplined manner. We'll continue from here, as I'm told the system is in order. [[It's a short break.]] I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to take their place. We'll see if the system's working properly. I'm asking everyone to put their cards in the voting machine and check. [[Dr. Wind to Bernadett.]] You, too, Madam Director. I need a presence check. I'm asking everyone to press a button. We're gonna need a presence check. Please press a button. [[It's happening.]] Congressman L. Simon, take your place. [[10.20]] Present 187 representatives, away 12. Was there anyone who couldn't press it during that time? [[Péter Harrach: My machine doesn't work! L. Simon László reporting.]] Congressman, I specifically told you to take your seat. Then I'll ask for another check, because I don't know how your computer works. I need a presence check. I'm gonna need a double-check. Now, please press a button. [[It's happening.]] There's 186, there's 13 missing. [[Defiance. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Kaspersky Lab! Péter Harrach: Mr President, my machine is not working!]] Mr. Péter Harrach's plane doesn't work. My apologies, unfortunately, we're forced to... this hasn't happened before in my practice, and we've also experienced problems in the computer system. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Namely vote is coming!]] I would ask all Members to take their seats, and I would also ask them very nicely. Congressman Zoltán Kovács, take your seat. I'm gonna need a recheck. Reporting and verification of the functionality of the system is to be carried out. Please press a presence button. [[It's happening.]] Present 187, missing 12 congressmen. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work by taking decisions on the agenda. The T/389 of the Agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Tajikistan on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/389/1. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of us on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/389. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 184 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. The Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail is now coming. T/390 on the publication of the 2017 amendment to its Annexes. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/390. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following a series of amendments to the T/391 Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/391. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. A framework agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Australia, of the other part, on the publication of the T/392. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/392. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following a series of amendments to the T/393 on the announcement of the Convention on Extradition between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/393. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We are now following the T/394 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on international carriage of passengers and goods by road. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/394. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 181 votes in favour, no votes against, with nine abstentions. The T/395 on the announcement of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons between Hungary and the Republic of Kosovo. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/395. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The T/704 Agreement between the World Tourism Organisation and the Government of Hungary on the publication of the World Tourism Day Agreement in Budapest Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/704/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of them on the House's network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/704. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 158 votes, 1 votes against and 32 abstentions. [[10.30]] The 2011 CLXII on the status and remuneration of judges follows. T/711 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/711/5 and its summary report T/711/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/711/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 49 votes against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/711/7. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/711/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/711/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. The next step is the T/709 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state assets. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and our fellow Members Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 136 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did any amendments to the proposal, we decided on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/709. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/709. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/629 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for the year 2019. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/629/19 and T/629/20. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 10 and 11, the Dialogue Group No 9 and the MSZP Group No 7 and 8. We'll vote on these first. Amendment 10 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 1 vote in favour. Amendment 11 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 12 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament, do you maintain this proposal? Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 134 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 133 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/629/19. on points 49 and 52 of the consolidated amendment proposal, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on points 30, 31, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 46 of the summarised amendment proposal, on points 33 and also related points 36 and 39 and on points 47 and 51 of the summarised amendment proposal. I would also like to inform you that the Fidesz and KDNP groups have initiated a joint vote on the points they have asked to vote on. Accordingly, we are now deciding on the adoption of points 30, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42 and 46 in relation to the content of the proposal for a separate vote. [[10.40]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/629/19. Point 30, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42 and 46 requires a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed amendments by 163 votes in favour, 23 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on points 31, 41, 43, 47, 50 and 51 of the summarised amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority of proposals. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the series of proposals excludes point 49 of the summarised amendment proposal, which is also requested for a separate vote, but it is also acceptable to point 52, which is also requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament accordingly, accept T/629/19. Point 31, 41, 43, 47, 50 and 51 of the consolidated amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed amendments by 166 votes in favour, 20 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a qualified majority. [[Towards Font Sándor, walking to Zsolt Semjén:]] Congressman, why don't you take your seat and take care of it after the polls? I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/629/19. Additional points requiring a qualified majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 157 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on point 52 of the summarised amendment proposal for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/629/19. Point 52 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 157 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/629/19. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 156 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/629. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/629. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is now in session. T/626. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/626/5. and the summary report by T/626/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/626/5 of the T/626/5. A separate vote was initiated on points 4 and 5 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the parts of the summary amendment that require a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on a qualified majority point in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/626/5. Point 7 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted 157 votes in favour, 23 against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on point 4 of the summarised amendment proposal requested for a separate vote. The adoption of this proposal excludes point 5 of the summarised amendment which was also asked for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/626/5. Point 4 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point, without vote, by 158 votes, with 32 abstentions. We are now deciding on point 5 of the summarised amendment proposal requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/626/5. Point 5 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 134 votes to 26, with 32 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/626/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 158 votes in favour, 9 against and 23 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. [[10.50]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/626. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 157 votes in favour, 26 against and 8 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/626. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 158 votes in favour, 26 against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. T/623 amending Act T/623 relating to the European Union's data protection reform and amending other related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/623/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/623/5 of the Government A separate vote was initiated on points 14 and 15 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the qualified majority part of the summary amendment proposal and then on the points requested for a separate vote, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/623/5. Point 4 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted by 158 votes in favour, no votes against, 33 abstentions, the point requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 14 of the summarised amendment proposal requested for a separate vote. The adoption of this proposal excludes point 15 of the summarised amendment which was also asked for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/623/5. Point 14 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 24 votes in favour, 147 against and 21 abstentions. We are now deciding on point 15 of the summarised amendment proposal for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/623/5. Point 15 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 158 votes to one, with 33 abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/623/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 165 votes in favour, 1 against and 26 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I would like to ask my fellow Members, if they will accept T/623. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 158 votes in favour, 1 against and 33 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/623. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 157 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 33 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is T/714 on the amendment of the laws relating to individual elections. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/714/26 and T/714/29. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is separate from the summarised amendment proposal T/714/27. T/714/28. No 72 of the house rules. The Commission has made a proposal pursuant to §8 of the Treaty. I will also inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 18, the Group of Dialogue Group No 20 and the Group of the LMP Group No 7, 8 and 12. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 18 is proposed by Zsolt Molnár and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 7 and includes Amendment 12. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 132 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. The reservation also requires a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 12 is also proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. A qualified majority is also required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 133 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 20 is proposed by Mr Olivio and Bence Tordai. A qualified majority is required here too. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 133 against and 2 abstentions. [[11.00]] Amendment 8 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he maintains the proposal, which requires a qualified majority to maintain. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 134 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Then we have to decide on the regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal, and then on Article 72. A proposal pursuant to §2 and then a decision is taken on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 2 of the Dialogue Group is T/714/26. A separate vote was initiated on point 39 of the summary amendment proposal. That's what we'll decide first. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this point requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/714/26. Point 39 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 174 votes in favour, 8 against and 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present are required for their adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/714/26. Additional points requiring a qualified majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 51 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/714/26. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 53 against and 7 abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on the regularity of the excessive amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is the house rule 71. Paragraph 2 (2) (a) introduced an over-extensive amendment proposal on the basis of T/714/27. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The house rules are 71. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is related to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44. It is obvious that it is necessary to enforce the criteria set out in § (1). Prior to the decision, the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee and the rapporteur of the minority opinion drafted in the committee may address themselves within a total time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. The Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I'll ask the authors if they'd like to speak within the two-minute window. [[For signal:]] They don't want me. Now, Honourable House, the decision will be made. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare T/714/27 as legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment expanding by 133 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 7 abstentions in order. Now the house rules are 72. We decide on a proposal pursuant to Art. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is T/714/28. In its proposal No 72 of the House Rules. Under Article 71 of the House Rules, the Parliament proposes that the House Rules apply to the proposal for an amendment which is expanding beyond the scope of Article 71 of the House Rules. § 4, 5 and 6 shall not apply. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, which agrees that T/714/28. T/714/27. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71 of the House Rules § 4, 5, 6 shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] , (5), (6) does not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 134 votes in favour, 50 against and 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present are required for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/714/27. Point requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has accepted the point requiring a qualified majority of the excessive amendment proposal by 134 votes in favour, 49 against and 8 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/714/27. An additional point in the proposal of the duly overextensive amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the simple majority of the amendment proposal by 132 votes in favour, 53 against and 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the summarised amendment proposal and the expanding amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the amended bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/714. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. [[11.10]] We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/714. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members that those who have to leave now because of their urgent and urgent duties should do so as quickly and as quietly as possible so that we can continue our work. I ask for your understanding and I look forward to it. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to ask my fellow Members in the Chamber to take their seats in order to ensure that the course of the meeting is undisturbed. Thank you for your understanding. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning the maintenance rights of the National University of Public Service, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. T/710 submitted by our Fidesz colleagues from Gergely Gulyás and Mónika Dunai The number of proposals and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available to everyone on the Parliament's IT network, i.e. to all our fellow Members. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-17-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Parliament that at its meeting on 12 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/710 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the maintenance rights of the National University of Public Service. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the proposal of the Committee on Culture to close a detailed debate, which includes two substantive amendments. It also includes language positioning and editing changes. Among the substantive proposals, the Minister for Innovation and Technology and the Minister for Education will also become a member of the Advisory Board to support and support certain maintenance decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to help the National University of Public Service to provide modern education on the basis of an even more efficient operating model, which aims to ensure the protection of Hungary, to ensure the protection of Hungarian people, and to create a citizen-friendly public service, and which will be able to do even better in the 21st century. To adapt to the needs, challenges and development of the century in the spirit of Hungarian citizens and good governance. Ladies and gentlemen, If you agree with these objectives, please support the submitted bill. The committee supported him. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2018-07-17-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. With all due respect, I ask you that you now wish to speak as a rapporteur. [[Mónika Dunai begins his speech without any sound.]] I would like to put the microphone of Congresswoman Mónika Dunai on speaker. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-17-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Not now, and I will speak at the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. At the end of the debate, you will have a ten-minute time frame for closing. Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you, on behalf of the government, there's one of the Secretary of State who wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated cultural committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. The timeframes will appear on the billboard, at least I hope so. [[It's happening.]] Yeah, they showed up. I would also like to inform you that, in accordance with the rules of the house, a two-minute comment is not possible during the debate. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Member Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As I have already explained in my speech as the lead speaker, it is already apparent that some of our concerns have already reached the threshold of the committee's stimuli, since the Ministry of Education appears in connection with a university. This is a very positive change compared to before, but, as I have already explained, on the one hand, the Ministry of Education is only going to be on the advisory board here and, on the other hand, the fact that in the past four ministers, and now in one hand, the Chancellor's Minister is managing a rather privatized private university, is basically still of concern to us. [[11.20]] Just as our amendments were not taken into account in the committee's opinion that the competences expressed in the legislative amendment, which would normally be made by the university's elected academic leaders or the university's Senate, should be returned to the competences of the given regions or the elected academic leaders, these amendments were not accepted by the committee. I would therefore like to reiterate the concerns that I have already said in my speech as a speaker. The fundamental problem with the operation of the National University of Public Service, Jobbik believes, remains that there is disproportionate support for an institution that, on the basis of neither the number of students nor the quality of the education it provides, deserves this more than other universities which, even in the international rankings, provide a very high level of performance. And the fact that, according to the news, only those who graduated here can be part of the Hungarian administration in the master's degree in state science, is essentially an untenable XXI. In terms of modern administration of the century. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mrs Mónika Dunai, as rapporteur, if she would like to respond to what was said in the debate within the remaining ten-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2018-07-17-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur, we thank this House, with my fellow rapporteur, Dr. Gergely Gulyás, both at committee meetings and here at Parliament's debate on the proposal. We also thank you for the amendments, of which, as has already been said, two amendments have become part of the basic proposal, enriched it and made it even better. It is a university that is really crucial in that it must train professionals who have a high level of professional knowledge in the Hungarian administration in accordance with the challenges of the age, and with this high level of professional knowledge they can handle the skills and problems of the Hungarian people and help them with the administration. We are pursuing a policy of good governance, and our aim is to enable citizens to deal with their affairs with as little obstacles as possible and with as little bureaucratic burdens as possible. It also fits into this thinking process, logic and philosophy that the National University of Public Service should be better suited, more and more suited to the satisfaction of citizens by those professionals who will work in the service of the public. The proposal to be a member of the Advisory Council is not only that of the Minister for Education and the... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Minister of Innovation.]] apologies and the Minister for Innovation and Technology will also be a member of the Advisory Board, which means not only that their expertise and competences will be a part of this body, but also means that the university can be in a better position financially and in a better position, because under the current rules, the ministers concerned can support the vocational training at the university which belongs to their own purses under a special agreement. Therefore, as proposed, we hope and expect that the National University of Public Service will really be able to train professionals to the satisfaction of the Hungarian people. However, I would like to put one thing in order in the debate. My good fellow Member, I mean, he made a statement saying that he was talking about private universities. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I said it was the private university of Fidesz.]] I would like to point out that this is a state, maximum state institution, which we are talking about, and it is better that no one deceives the kind television viewers or the Hungarian people, what they say in the debate. It is a state institution in its entirety, since it is a university that creates people who are engineered by the state. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right.]] And now let me put the machine in quotes. We do not want this to be a very slow-working structure, as it used to be, decades ago, we really want a citizen to meet people there who do their job quickly, efficiently and according to their best skills. Thank you very much once again for your comments, your attention, and I would like to ask you to support this proposal in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is the 2010 CLXXXII on the Bethlen Gábor Fund. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government will be represented by Árpád Potápi State Secretary. T/713 submitted by our fellow Members from Fideszes and Lőrinc Nacsa, Barna Pál Zsigmond and Lőrinc KDNP The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all my fellow Members on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/713 on 12 July 2018. The 2010 CLXXXII on the Bethlen Gábor Fund. A bill amending the Act was tabled by the committee with 30 votes in favour, no votes against, and an amendment and a summary report with one abstention. The summarised amendment includes the amendments proposed by the Committee on National Inclusion, in particular substantive and technical amendments, which have been supported by our committee. In addition, the Legislative Committee has its own amendment proposal, which suggests that the Hungarian-Hungarian relationship will be built and deepened without limit for the purposes of national policy! programme cover should be insured in the Bethlen Gábor Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is the result of a comprehensive review, which is mainly linked to the restructuring of the government structure, namely, the payment of church and ethnic support will be carried out by the Bethlen Gábor Fund in the future. In order to establish the legal basis for the performance of the tasks, please support the adoption of the proposal with your vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I'm going to ask the authors if one of them would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-43	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you so much for the opportunity. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. We agree with the amendments. The legislation on the Bethlen Gábor Fund was adopted by this House 8 years ago, and since then the Bethlen Gábor Fund has proven itself. One of the successful sectors of the government is national policy, and the Bethlen Gábor Fund is a sure pillar of this national policy, a certain institution. Today, the government provides more than HUF 100 billion in funding for national politics, a significant part of which is distributed through the Bethlen Gábor Fund. [[11.30]] I would just like to mention a few things: for more than 240,000 people, the education and education support is 25 thousand forints per month, which is provided by the Government through the Bethlen Gábor Fund to our fellow nations across the border, 76 national institutions are supported by the Government through the Bethlen Gábor Fund, and through this institution Sapientia University and II. The support of Ferenc Rákóczi Hungarian Academy of Transcarpathia is also supported. As has been said, the proposal before us contains technical amendments, and the amendment of the governance structure has made the amendment of the legislation relevant. Then, through the Bethlen Gábor Fund, ethnic and ecclesiastical resources will also be paid out, as a result of the amendments to the Unlimited! The programme will also be financed through the Bethlen Gábor Fund. I would like once again to ask my fellow Members for their support for the adoption of the legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that you will have 8 minutes and 25 seconds to say the closing word. I would like to ask Mr Árpád Potápi State Secretary if he would like to speak now. [[Árpád János Potápi indicates that he does not wish.]] He doesn't want to. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the designated National Assembly Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. The time frame appeared on the billboard. I ask who wishes to speak in the debate. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Zsolt Molnár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'd like to start with... [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár's mobile phone is jamming the sound.]] I'm gonna move my phone.
u2018-07-17-46	That's right, or you're gonna have to turn that phone off, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-47	That's a good idea, thank you very much. Obviously, my fellow Members do the same thing all the time. I would like to start with due respect that the objectives of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, those cross-border national policy objectives and those sublime principles are otherwise correct, the Socialist Party has always had an important cross-border Hungarianity, so it will continue in the future. [[Noise, rumble in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Among our main objectives are to improve the situation of Hungarians across borders, and we have tried to do so several times during our governance. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] In this connection, I would like to say that I naturally understand the critical comments, but let us look at the facts. [[István Szávay: Don't you want to perform at Comedy Central?]] Congressman Savay, I'm sure they'll give you the floor. However, I would like to continue by saying that the most obvious and perhaps not surprising in your proposal is that in the laws that you have made, there is always a path towards Fidesz; that I say that the evaluation of the proposals, the assessment of the grants, is not the problem with the supported goals, but it is in fact about decision-making that it is the people in the various party apparatus that you have appointed, in the ministry apparatus, who make a substantive decision on what is happening in the case of subsidies beyond the borders. This is our real real problem, that it is not for the organisations across the border to decide on their own. This is also true of the electoral system, as it is all about being able to vote for the Fidesz party list as many as possible, rather than allowing Hungarians across the border to choose from among themselves. The same is true of the aid scheme: you, as Fidesz-KDNP, want to decide what is right when assessing the aid and what is not. That's the problem. Therefore, although there are a lot of forward-looking elements in your proposal, by the fact that the decision-making mechanisms actually represent a party interest, it is not even in the interests of the country, but only the Fidesz-KDNP's decision-making mechanism is infiltrating the Bethlen Gábor Fund's activities, therefore it cannot be supported in this form. This would be fair if curators and other decision-makers did not emerge from the state apparatus and indirectly from the Fidesz apparatus, but from Hungarians across the border. They are the ones who know best how this should be complicated, which are the proposals that need to be supported. Unfortunately, you are not on this path, but you are keeping this centralised decision-making, which is obviously possible from a party centre. If this were to be changed, it would, of course, be eligible, but they do not have the right to change, which is the result of the general debate, which emerges from the Commission's report. So our clear view is that they want to maintain this type of decision-making for themselves, which of the people across the border is worthy of it, who is not worthy of it, and who continues to maintain the division of the nation, instead of representing the interests of all eleven million Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, as we Socialists think, but instead you are essentially a party interest in Fidesz. If this is modified, this will be changed, it will be different on this issue, it will be possible for our opinion to change, but within this framework, I must say that this is not possible in this form. You demonstrate, as in the electoral procedure laws, here too, that you want to continue the centralization, the pro-state operation that you started in 2010 with your governance. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-07-17-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. Yes, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, the notary of the Parliament, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2018-07-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Let me respond to my fellow Member, Mr Molnár, first of all, to know that, Mr President, his criticisms would be credible, on the one hand, if you had dealt with this matter in a fundamentally different way, but that is not true in this form. The fact that the Socialist Party... [[Lajos Korózs: The Bethlen Foundation must be dealt with on this agenda, right? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-07-17-50	Congressman Korós, I didn't give you the floor. When you check in, I'm gonna give it to you, and we're gonna count that in the time frame. [[Lajos Korózs: I'm still right!]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-51	You may still be right, Congressman Korózs, I am also curious to hear what you have to say, so I urge you to press a button for me. So the fact that the Socialist Party has always been important to Hungarians across the border was somehow a statement to Comedy Central's evening band, Congressman. [[Dr. Molnár Zsolt: Fidesz talk!]] That's pretty much what everyone in this room feels. So, your criticisms would be justified if you had done this question in yourself and fundamentally in a different way. Basically, the reason they didn't do it any other way is because you guys had your liebling organizations across the border the same way Fidesz has them now. In your time, we had those Hungarian leaders across the selected border who sent the lists up to Budapest and expressed their opinion on who could receive money and who could not receive it on a political basis, as is the case right now. It is a different question, and it must be acknowledged that at least you didn't want to kill everyone else in the past than the trends we've seen recently. So at least we didn't have to starve everyone who refused to go to bed with you. However, this does not mean that this type of tendering mechanism was more moral. Not to mention that the resources that are now available have not even come close to the amount that you have used for this purpose at the time. At the same time, of course, there is certainly truth to what you have said. For our part, we have, in the last six years, been quite often critical of the system of evaluation of applications, the extremely high proportion of closed tenders, i.e. individual tender funds, which the government still refuses to change. We can continue to see practices in which people and organizations close to government can receive 100-200 million forints for a few pages of vomit, with which they do not want to be accounted for or postponed for several years. Like the renovation of the Tusnádfürdő campsite, which we would now like to see slowly, what Zsolt Németh's foundation was juggling with this 150 million forints, or that it was finally able to play in private hands the camp with this money, or that it was finally prevented by the State Secretary. We will now slowly look into this, and I believe that the third amended settlement deadline will expire in August, so I hope that the Secretary-General will not give us any more opportunities to sabotage the accounts. At the same time, and now let us move on to the issue of the specific proposal that Congressman Molnár raises. As I understand it, the MSZP has a problem with this proposal about what is missing from it and what is in which direction the Bethlen Gábor Fund could still be implemented. This is a difficult question because there is truth in this, and there are a lot of issues that we would like to see the regulation of, or we would like to see the change of, and one would prefer to support a proposal from which certain change needs have been raised, where appropriate, several times over the last few years. However, for our part, we have decided that we are going to look at what is in the proposal, and that is how we are going to make our decision. With the need to say that we have many feelings of absence, and we are considering, at the moment, that we will also present, for our part, a legislative amendment in which we want to settle these issues in the autumn. But let us now focus on what is contained in the proposal and, in most cases, it is essentially technical amendments. I have already discussed these in more detail in my speech as the lead speaker, when we started discussing the proposal, and I do not want to do so now. I would like to talk about one issue at the same time, and this is the limitless one! program. [[11.40]] This is also the opinion of the Secretary of State for a long time, and in this opinion we have agreed with each other over the last few years that this programme should not have been in the EMMI, but in the Prime Minister's Office, and this programme is now coming here. For our part, we agree. I believe that the Prime Minister's Office will be a better owner of this programme than the EMMI. However, I would like to draw very strongly to the attention of the Secretary of State and ask that you know exactly what problems this programme has had over the past years. When you were President of the Commission, as chairman of the National Assembly Committee, we dealt with this issue many times, the problems related to this have been brought before our committee several times, and we know what fundamental problems have been, for example, administration, tendering clearances, and even the timely publication of applications. After many years, it has only been possible to change that, but to date, the problems have not been completely resolved. I ask Mr Secretary of State that if we, for our part, advance you the confidence that you will be a better owner of this programme than the EMMI, you really should do everything you can to ensure that it does. I would ask you to look at the current malfunctions of the programme, especially how to simplify the accounting of proposals. It's incomprehensible, it's over-bureaucratized. They often ask applicants for certificates and bills that are not easy to obtain, and that may be less now to date, but believe me, Mr Secretary, to this day many are held back from the tender by the amazing complexity and administrative bureaucracy that this proposal represents. I am convinced that there are still points where this could be simplified, which is why in previous years it has been possible that the funding has simply not run out. This is relatively rare in Hungary because there is an extremely large tender framework, but it doesn't really matter how big it is, but there is a tendering framework that simply cannot be spent because there aren't enough applicants. There were not enough candidates because many people were deterred by the way this whole application was, by its administration and by its accounting. So I'm asking you to pay attention to this. The other thing we find a little difficult to understand is the resistance on your part. In all, Jobbik made one amendment proposal. It was also a kind that came out of the law itself, since the bill itself showed several existing practices in the law, or contained things that have already worked this way, but were not in the law. For example, the proposal states what we have known so far that employers' rights at Bethlen Gábor Fund are exercised by the head of the fund. In the same way I asked for it, the website of Bethlen Gábor Fund has become a little more searchable and more transparent, finally changing the existing practice that we have often criticized. In previous years, it was virtually impossible to investigate and investigate what kind of organization, without a day or two of work being spent, when and how much money was received from the Bethlen Gábor Fund. We said that three times a year at all kinds of committee meetings. You've done it very well, you have to admit. So right now, there's a searchable database of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, and we'd like it to stay that way. We wanted this kind of information obligation to be published in law, but you didn't support it. It's a little hard for us to understand the purpose behind this. In any case, we believe that we would like to return to this question in the future. At the same time, along with our criticisms and consideration of the approach that I have just indicated to my fellow Member Molnar, Jobbik has decided to support this proposal, but we would like to stress it, not because we would agree with the operation or practice of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, but because we would now merely like to see what changes this bill will make and we can fundamentally agree with them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to point out to Mr Zsolt Molnár that he has logged in for two minutes, but he does not have a two-minute window. If you would like to speak again, I will give you the opportunity. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, with respect. First of all, I would like to point out that, apart from what the Socialist Party's national commitment is, Member Szávay sees the issue of the Bethlen Gábor Fund. However, for a long time, he talked about why this proposal should not be supported, while his comments, critical remarks and assessment of the situation are absolutely correct. I share, for my part, what you've said is the conclusion that comes from your support for this, and I find that strange. What you have said, and what is not in it, these provide far more arguments for non-support than for support, while, of course, it is your decision. I just want to say that you have made the right arguments, but these arguments and these summaries, which you have said and which I could not express so precisely, are, rather, in the direction of decision-making in which it should not be supported. Not even with the Bethlen Gábor Fund itself and those national policy goals being correctly defined, but the leading instruments... and you shared the view that they would allow strong Fidesz political intervention is the problem. Another very important issue I have not mentioned before, I would like to briefly address. One is normative support, which has made it possible for dozens of organisations across borders to operate in a predictable way from 2007 to 2010. Although you have promised from 2010 that you will not change it, you have changed it, so you have introduced an uncertainty factor to organisations across the border, the regular test that you will have to stand the constant test of the goodwill of the Hungarian government. The other thing I am missing is that the Secretary of State may be able to help: the programme in Hungarian is a very good programme, there are a lot of budgetary resources, there are relatively no problems, but the assessment of the impact that this has had on young people who can learn lucky in their mother tongue, and this is supported by the programme funded by you or the programme funded by the Hungarian State, but how this has affected them, how they are implemented, could include some kind of summary of the legislation. I don't know if I'm saying this correctly, but this may be the biggest support, one of the biggest support systems, the . Homeland program in Hungarian. I'm missing some sort of summary of this. Finally, I would like to say that, not going back to Mr Szávay's sentences, in such a law or amendment of the law, it is necessary to look first and foremost at what the government had at its disposal, and, compared to that, a few technical clarifications and facilitations are correct, but this does not allow it to be supported either because of the shortcomings in it or because of the missed opportunities. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2018-07-17-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, as rapporteur, whether he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I was prepared to conclude my speech by thanking the opposition for its constructive attitude, and indeed there is some constructive attitude, but there is also a lot of negative comments that lack any basis for reality. That's what I'd like to respond to. Congressman Molnár, I quote: the Socialist Party has always been very important about the fate of Hungarians beyond the borders, and has lived with this quote or speech. I would remind you of 5 December 2004 and would remind you that MÁÉRT has been abolished. MÁÉR is the forum that gives Hungarians across the border the right to have an institutional say in the support system for example, to propose, to draw up programmes and to monitor the whole process. The system, which is the legitimate forum for sending opinions from Hungarians across the border to the decision-making mechanism, has been abolished. So maybe that's it. I remind you of the 2004 campaign when, among other things, people were intimidated by posters that Hungarians from across the border would come and take the job. I don't want to make a personal point here, but we remember these posters. You were the ones who turned the Hungarian against the Hungarian. Don't ever do that again, I wish. The memory of this still lives in many people across the border. The past eight years may have forgotten in some form, the successful national policy of the last eight years, the shame that the whole Hungarian community suffered in 2004. He referred to the electoral system. The electoral system also passed the test of the Venice Commission and international public opinion, including the letter voting system. We have just amended the legislation by two thirds, which makes it even more transparent, even clearer the electoral system for the letter vote. [[11.50]] You're talking about centralized and party-led Fidesz national policy. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that Hungarians across the border are satisfied with this national policy, confirmed by both political organisations and 99 percent of political organisations, but this is even more true of the civil sphere, the ecclesiastical world, so there is basically consensus on national policy. This is an important historic moment that most Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin agree with the main directions of national policy. I thank Congressman Szávay very much for his constructive attitude towards the legislation, but I also felt what Mr Molnár pointed out, that he sometimes speaks highly of national politics, and on the other hand, that a bucket of mud is so hectic that he compliments us and confronts us, and I find it hard to figure out when to give a well-founded opinion, and when to call in the party center's instructions, that we should be a little bit scolded, because it doesn't go. [[István Szávay: We don't have one! That's another couple!]] To commend national politics. So I kind of feel that way, because sometimes he talks about his clarity, and sometimes he talks about clientele, and then he talks about all kinds of smokescreens, even personal hints about who doesn't account for it, and he doesn't account for it. The Unlimited! In relation to the programme, it says how complicated the system is. More than 100,000 students have already crossed the border thanks to the program, so it must have been so complicated that they couldn't complete the application; this proves that the system is successful. If there is no expectation on the other side, there is some system, and there is transparency and control, so there must be some system that ensures that money is spent for the right purpose. You're talking about incredible bureaucracy, and you've been using adjectives like that. I'm telling you, the 100,000 students who successfully participated across the border may not have come across this amazing bureaucracy. Overall, I thank you for your constructive attitude, as you have given your support for the legislation, which also indicates that we are on the right track, that this amendment is correct, that the government's national policy is right. I would continue to ask for your support and my fellow opposition Members for national policy and for this specific legislation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Árpád Potápi has spoken. Although the representative of the Government may speak at any time in the debate, without a time frame, but after I closed the debate, the push-button application came in, so I cannot speak to you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows now that Act I of 2004 on Sport and Act CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, on public benefit status and on the functioning and support of civil society organisations. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/712 submitted by our Fidesz colleagues Erik Bánki, Csaba Nagy and Mónika Dunai The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all my fellow Members on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, including the presentation of the formulated minority opinion. I now give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. As there is a minority opinion, the time frame for the congresswoman is no more than eight minutes. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform the Parliament that, at its meeting on 12 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the Act I of 2004 on Sport and the right of association, the status of public benefit, and the 2011 CLXXV on the operation and support of civil society organisations. T/712 amending Act No. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 22 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment includes the proposal of the Committee on Culture to conclude a detailed debate, which contains only technical amendments. The bill primarily seeks to amend the provision of broadcasting rights, which is of the greatest value of property rights. The purpose of the bill is to make clear that, unlike in the past, the rights of property relating to the broadcasting of sports activities, sports competitions and sporting events should apply to sports organisations, thus eliminating the existing monopoly position of the associations. The proposal also aims to facilitate the settlement of disputes between sport organisations on a professional basis, as the draft states that sport organisations will be entitled to deal only with sport disputes in the future, i.e. the Permanent Arbitration Court for Sport and their Swiss-based organisation. These chosen courts will operate in such a way that professionals, sports professionals and sports professionals work there, and this ensures that in future decisions can be fully justified in every case. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill strengthens the autonomy of sports organisations and helps to resolve disputes between sports organisations on a professional basis. The Legislative Committee supported the proposal, as I said in the introduction. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Unfortunately, the minority opinion cannot speak because its rapporteur is not present in the Chamber. I will now ask the author whether he would like to speak with one of the authors. [[Erik Bánki: No.]] I don't see any contact. Then I ask you, on the part of the government, the Secretary of State wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Szabó Tünde has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-07-17-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from the congresswoman, the 2004 Sport Act I ahead and the 2011 CLXXV. The basic objective of the bill amending the Act is to clearly establish that the right of property to broadcast sporting events is to be applied to sports organisations. The proposed amendment therefore aims to promote the economic independence of clubs and to make their economic activity and management even more efficient by using their wealth rights. I would like to note here that during the general debate, in the detailed debate in the Committee on Culture and during the procedure of the Legislative Committee, the media market processes that my opposition colleagues have repeatedly mentioned are not included in the legislative proposal. I would like to emphasise, as in the general debate, that the legislator's intention is clear in the view of the government: to strengthen the economic strength and independence of sports organisations by clearly settling the situation of their rights of property. Under the Sports Act, the licensing of sports activities, matches with television, radio and other electronic, digital techniques such as Internet broadcasting, recording and commercial exploitation, including advertising and marketing rights, constitutes property rights. The bill seeks to resolve the situation relating to these rights of property value. Another important element of this amendment, as we have also heard from Congresswoman Dunai, is that in future, only the Permanent Arbitration Court of Sports and the Swiss-based CAS are entitled to take action in disputes between sports organisations and no other permanent case-by-case court. This has also been a huge need in recent years, as with this amendment we want to ensure and will also be able to ensure that only elected courts, forums or professionals and sports lawyers specialised in sports matters and possible disputes in sport organisations can act. [[12.00]] This will also enable the following, professional and rapid case-law to be established in the field of sport. We can all see how fast and dynamic the sports sector is developing. Every sport can sense continuous changes, the role of sport in society or even in the media world. It is an integral part of this work to review legislation from time to time, taking into account professional needs and practical experience, as it sets the framework for everyday life. As a result, the amendment concerning the property rights of sports organisations has also been brought before the Honourable Parliament. In order to further strengthen the independent functioning of clubs and sports organisations, it is important to clarify clearly the situation of property rights linked to the mediation of sporting events and to lay down laws. I would therefore like to point out that the government is already working on a comprehensive amendment to the content of the sport law, which goes beyond the proposals that we have just discussed, since the innovations in sports disciplines and the demands on the practical experience of sports associations are constantly coming into the field of sport administration, which will be summarised in the course of the negotiations, and are planned to be presented to Parliament in the autumn session. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In addition to what has been said, the other elements of the bill contain legal clarification, which is confirmed by the legislative committee's summarised amendment, which the government supports, as in the legislative proposal. On this basis, on behalf of the Government, I also request the support of this House on behalf of T/712. the adoption of a bill submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-60	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and inform the Parliament that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to speak and take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Erik Bánki says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-61	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Since there were no substantive contributions to the bill at the final stage, I obviously have nothing to say about this either. I urge everyone to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Péter Ungár applaud.]]
u2018-07-17-62	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Here comes the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/624. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-17-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that during the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 July 2018, the members discussed T/624. CXVI of 1996 on nuclear energy. a bill amending the law. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted an amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions. In the background material, the wording proposed by the Economic Committee was supported by the TAB, but there was no debate at the meeting. Dear House, I would like to emphasise the essence of the proposal that the complex authorisation procedures for investment in Paks will require the involvement of organisations with appropriate professional skills to ensure that all energy security and other important aspects of the investment are properly implemented. In view of this, the proposal contains the safeguards necessary for the functioning of expert organisations, and I therefore ask you to support the adoption of this proposal by your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-64	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary Kaderja says yes. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-65	Mr President, Dear Parliament, For my part, thank you for the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. aid expressed in relation to the bill amending law. In fact, the Legislative Committee has tabled a summary amendment to the bill, which contains linguistic and technical clarification, thus facilitating the future application of the law. I would like to point out that the summarised amendment is also in line with the government's position. In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment and the entire amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-66	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Kaderjak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2018-07-17-67	Thank you so much for the opportunity. When we start talking about this law, it is important to know that this is the third time in this content that the government has tried to change nuclear authorisation and expert procedures. The third reason why this must be done is because, on the first two occasions, the Commission considered that this did not comply with European standards. So it is important to know what we are talking about here: this is the third time that they are trying to change the nuclear rules for the sake of Rosatom, which, by the way, were of much better quality before these changes began. Just to live with a metaphor, what it's like to keep trying to convert regulation to a new power plant: it's like having a car that fails the technical test and then changing the technical rules that you don't need brakes on the car, it can still work. I will then look in detail at the important regulatory mechanisms on which we can see that regulations are fundamentally weakened, and this amendment is clearly made for the benefit of Rosatom. If the Rosatom is what it is, and it must be added that, of course, Rosatom is not only developing nuclear power in Hungary in Europe, it is doing so in Finland, and likewise in Finland, there has been a need to change the nuclear power regulations and the law on expert regulations under pressure from Rosatom. I would like to add that there have been more nuclear accidents in the territory of the former Soviet Union than in all Western European countries or in alle zusammen together in all other countries, so this shows that Rosatom is not sure that it is as reliable as possible to deal with nuclear energy in Hungary. I would like to raise two points, which is a specific problem with this law. One is that it increases the number of expert organisations that can be included in the authorisation procedure to an unlimited extent without having one more expert in Hungary. [[12.10]] In Hungary, there is a fixed number of limited experts in nuclear energy, who should be involved in this authorisation procedure, and instead of training more experts or, say, involving foreign experts in this process, they are trying to multiplicate different organisations to help as many as possible to receive money from the expert business, with this huge amount of money that will go to the licensing process. I do not think it would be an oracle-like vision to the future to say that in the coming weeks, months, different people, who are natural persons and whose names we know well enough, will set up various nuclear professional and expert organisations in order to obtain soft money in the licensing process. So the fact that the number of organizations is increased, but not the number of experts who can be involved, clearly shows that there are people here who, in addition to Rosatom or Rosatom, would like to benefit from these expert soft money. The other, my favorite concern, which I think is ridiculous because of the fact that the rules of professional conflict of interest are being abolished. This means that Rosatom or its subcontractors may attach their own opinion to the licence application. In English, I'm building something with someone, regardless of whether it's good, and then whoever's building it and making money from it tells me, yeah, I think it's great. What I'm sensing is that I'm not sure the safest way to do this is to get Paks II. be safe. Here I am going to highlight a specific person and a specific example, which illustrates the type of expert procedure, but I would like to add that the conflict of interest in such an expert procedure is also very important because we know exactly what effect the thousands of billion forints nuclear industry can have in Hungary. We know exactly how fast you want to do this nuclear power plant, despite the fact that most of the time these are very slow things and not by accident slow things. But here I would like to return to my favorite man. In the Hungarian Times there was a man, Zsolt Harfás, who is now going to participate in the expert procedure in Paks II, who regularly published that Paks II. What a good thing and safe. Among other things, he had a fight with LMP's group leader, Wind Bernadet, everyone. Then, with a very serious investigative work that I did in the framework of google.com, we came to the following conclusion: Zsolt Harfás is the paid employee of Kotimex Kft., the Hungarian communication partner of the Rosatom group. Now, what kind of people are going to take part in the expert procedure now? Will the person who receives money from the Rusty for communicating with the Rusty be interrupting how safe this power plant is? Overall, I would like to say that you are doing everything in your power to represent the interests of the Rosatom in this House. Despite the fact that Viktor Orbán has recently said what the Eastern threat is, despite the fact that he is willing to change all conflict of interest rules for this ruble foreign exchange loan, your friends are now willing to have access to expert money. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-68	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. The next speaker is Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2018-07-17-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to approach you from a slightly different perspective than my previous LMP fellow Member. We're used to LMP thinking about the same thing, not only the nuclear power plant or nuclear power, but even the city of Paks, if I could, or the word Paks would be removed from the dictionary. I have a slightly more professional question for the Secretary of State. Indeed, with regard to the question of the operation of experts, it arises that, if an expert... and we know well that it is not possible to exclude Duna from nuclear energy experts in Hungary, because it is a rather thin market, and now that a new nuclear power plant is being authorised, their importance will be appreciated, and it is obviously no accident that they would like to be involved in expert organisations as much as possible. But does it still have some kind of barrier to how many expert associations can you put your name to? However, this may be an important issue, since there is indeed a well-defined number of nuclear energy experts in Hungary today. How much is an expert organization? On this basis, on the basis of the proposed amendment, practically any amount, if understood correctly, since the employment of a single nuclear energy expert in any legal relationship already provides the basis for calling that organisation an expert organisation in the field of nuclear energy. And I would like to say to my fellow Member of the LMP that there is such a question, and it arises that there is any obstacle to how many expert organisations can participate in the same authorisation procedure. Indeed, it does not add any more professionally if it does the same activity or the same professional work in three, four, five or six organisations, even though his expertise will not multiply. And there would indeed be a need for new experts in the field of nuclear energy; if and if, if, on the basis of the present situation, this investment is being launched, the authorisation is being made, the investment has been made, and the opposition can at most criticize this, but at the moment it is not influenced, and obviously, depending on temperament, this is not necessarily an objective. In any case, we must take into account how this loan, which has been taken into account for the extremely large and costly investment, is being used on the one hand. Now, I'm obviously a bit off the subject of this bill, but it's always necessary to mention that where there's so much money, there's obviously a possibility of corruption. As opposers, we have the responsibility to do this, if we can and if the encryptions do not extend to the area, to make sure that everything is done in accordance with the law and in accordance with the law in the course of the investment. These professional concerns, policy concerns, if Mr Secretary of State could resolve them, and we would get answers to that... as I have already said in the general debate, we do not actually see any obstacle to supporting the bill, because we do not see behind the nightmares, the visions that my fellow Member Ungár has said here before me. Basically, we are trying to interpret it as described in the law, and I do not think that this amendment would give us the opportunity to have more access to this investment, or to contribute better than otherwise without the amendment. I am not saying that they are not involved in this investment, because they are obviously involved and obviously more intensively, because the 40% share of Hungarian suppliers that the parties concluded at the time when the contract was concluded is becoming more and more doubtful whether they can be met, as there is an increasing shortage of workers, a shortage of professionals in Hungary, and the well-prepared companies are also very doubtful that they are available and will be able to contribute to the substantial part of the investment. Therefore, there is a risk that this 40% share of suppliers will not be met. Nevertheless, at least at expert level, we have the aim and I think it is possible for everyone here in the Hungarian Parliament to have as many Hungarian experts and well-prepared experts as possible to contribute to the construction, licensing and implementation of the new nuclear force, because at the nuclear power plant currently operating, however many critical voices are, it can be said that as long as they are here and as long as they are able to pass on their knowledge, it is very good to do so, for whom we can be proud, because they have been operating a nuclear power plant safely for 30 years, and our security, the safety of Hungarian people is very important. This nuclear power plant operates for another 20 years, the Paks I nuclear power plant, so we are talking about the currently operating blocks, these four blocks will phase out between 2032 and 2037. It is very important that they continue to operate this nuclear power plant safely and, of course, the new nuclear power plant that is being built. So expert training, increasing the number of experts is definitely a very important issue. Any bill that actually serves this purpose is eligible for us. What we are talking about here is that expert organisations can be given chamber registration, expert permission based on the fact that an expert is employed in any legal relationship. [[12.20]] This could also help to facilitate the authorisation of investments. And if our concerns can be adequately addressed by the Secretary of State, then we will determine our final vote accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-70	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. Mr László Hajdu is coming from the DK Group.
u2018-07-17-71	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. By reading the amendment of the law, and also as a member of the Legislative Committee and as a member of the Sustainable Committee, but last week with the Economic Commission, Paks II. I would also like to say a few words on the expert question as a Member who participated in this visit. I think that those who have not seen the working nuclear power plant recently, or have not seen the plans on the ground that are in a sufficiently advanced state of implementation, and whose authorisation is already in a sufficiently advanced state, are very important to know that Hungary is entering into a task that we have an operational experience for, but there will be an expansion of the size of which the old Paks I. will still work once it is put into service, and Paks II will work. This is the size of a site-based energy production base, for which there is no experience in Hungary, and there are few training and training sites where you can find suitable experts and professionals. I took part in the debate several times. Now I would like to highlight just one example because the time limit is tight, and this is a very important part of the whole power plant's operation, safety and control, that the cooling system is provided by the Danube water, the Danube water, whose fluctuations during the drought and during the flood are many types of everything. This Danube water now provides Paks' I. cooling system. But if you enter the Paks II. In the case of a power plant, there is no expert who can say that Paks II has the water of the Danube, its per second passability is sufficient in dry weather, and will be able to provide a safe operation, since an expansion of the size of the Danube will also have to be carried out here, which may mean that the water flow of the Danube may be pushing the limit where safe operation can be guaranteed or not. One man's opinion is not enough for this, and we need a very serious team of experts. The temperature of the water coming in and the temperature of the water leaving are announced today, according to a plan, that it will not pass the temperature that will affect the life of the water and much more. This requires real, truly accredited people with expertise. We see and feel the person who was on the scene, and he knows from the documents presented that it is almost an irreversible situation. If and if so, in this case, there is an extraordinary role to be played by the administration and professionalism. From this point of view, I think that the amendment to this law... I took part in the debate of the law in 1996 as vice president of the Environment Committee, because I was in Parliament a few cycles earlier, that was the last time I was in Paks and this last week, and I believe that the construction of Paks I at that time and the Paks II. Its construction is very justified by the fact that we also provide a legal guarantee as to who the experts are. Another question is the extent to which this amendment to the business law, for example, serves the interests of Rosatom. It is possible that the experts of Rosatom are a conflict of interest in some way to carry out the investment, but it cannot be produced here as anything in agriculture or anywhere. Experience shows that an expert can be obtained in the operation of the school, and if this is at the Rosatom, it should also be used. That's one of my comments. My second point is, if, for at least ten years, the Paks I and the Paks II. It will operate at the same time, and this will require a huge operator's guard. This operator's guard requires thousands of engineers and college graduates, as today, operation at a simple professional worker level offers almost nothing but auxiliary work. And the appreciation of what a continuous team of professionals is needed here for 40 to 50 years is not an underestimating question of expertise. The third, where expertise is extremely necessary, is the disposal of worn-out capsules, spent fuel, and the safe disposal of sustainable development, and the safety of the area and of this country or the centre of Europe. I think that requires good experts. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-72	Thank you very much, Congressman László Hajdu. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. But I still see an applicant at the last minute. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2018-07-17-73	My apologies. My mic fell apart. I would just like to react very briefly to what my fellow Member has said and to connect a little. This is obviously a long way from the issue of the original bill, but when it came to it, it is appropriate to say that we always say that, as far as the water supply of the nuclear power plant is concerned, Jobbik, perhaps the only party in the current parliament, had a complete proposal on how to restore Hungary's water management. The water supply of the nuclear power plant is mentioned here as a significant part of the settlement of the water level and water supply situation of the Danube in our 2014 election programme, perhaps even in 2010. After all, we have not only planned for energy management and recovery in this programme, but we have also set the country's water balance improvement as a very important goal: when it is a drought, when the water level of the Danube is low, for example, there is sufficient water for cooling the nuclear power plant. This is, therefore, a very important issue that must continue to be kept on the agenda, because, thanks to climate change, precipitation is increasingly extreme, and it is increasingly important that we try to eliminate this extreme impact, this inequality. We still do not see on the part of the government that it is trying to do this, i.e. to eliminate these effects in the coming decades, and to focus not only on flood protection but also on low water levels and water retention. We have a complex program for this. I'm just saying this because it comes up, but it's obviously not related to the bill before us. However, it is very important that not only experts are available for an adequate number of such investments, but also professionals, workers and well-trained workers involved in the implementation. I have already said in my previous speech that this is also a critical situation, because, thanks to emigration, very little and fewer skilled workers are mainly qualified. And I'm not just thinking about nuclear power, because it's a huge investment, if you will, a construction project. Although it is a special construction project, it takes a lot of construction companies to carry out such an investment. [[12.30]] There is already a shortage of professionals in this area in Hungary, and many other areas where there is already a need to ensure that these are available in the next one or two decades. The training is that the nuclear power plant has to be operated for several decades after that, for 40-50-60 years. So the degree to which vocational training is available, the degree to which it adapts to needs, is also a very important issue. And here, if we are talking about a higher education qualification, we can talk about experts, because sooner or later they will be the experts of nuclear energy, with the right years of experience and professional experience, who come out of these higher education institutions, especially technical higher education institutions, specifically in the field of nuclear energy. But I could also give a positive example of the first nuclear engineering training to start in the autumn, which is obviously important, especially in the licensing process, but it will not replace the shortage of professionals in the implementation process. I will hold myself to what I have said before, and I will look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply on this, if not first, in the closing section. After all, we would not have much time left to react anyway, but I hope that I will still be able to get the answers that I have asked for in the closing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-74	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and Mr Kaderjak, State Secretary, has indicated that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-17-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would really just like to respond to some of the points that have been raised here in the debate. First of all, I would like to answer the question of whose interest the current amendment is in the interests of the Hungarian consumers, and I would like to make it clear that it is primarily in the interests of Hungarian consumers. In particular, Hungarian consumers will still be able to obtain nuclear energy on the backbone of Hungarian electricity supply with the highest level of security in the future. At this point, I would like to reject Congressman Ungar's statement, who is no longer in the room... [[For signal:]] Here, I'm sorry, the one who argued that we'd make room for my Rosatom here or make room for this bill. The bill serves precisely to further strengthen and guarantee the conflict of interest and independence of experts and expert organisations involved in official authorisation procedures for nuclear installations. After all, it is in our interest to be able to rely as much as possible on the experts and expert organisations that we have in Hungary, in those incredibly complex licensing processes which, as has been said, will take place in this outstanding project. It's known that Paks II. In order to establish a project, approximately 300,000 pages of authorisation documents should be submitted and evaluated by the National Atomic Energy Office, so that this work is done at the highest level, it is necessary to include all available sources of expertise in this work. Of course, it is not possible to create experts by law-making, and this amendment alone does not allow for the immediate availability of more experts in Hungary. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology, as the portfolio responsible for vocational training, is otherwise active in this area. This is, of course, part of the Ministry's programme, but this proposal aims primarily to ensure the independence and availability of available resources. In response to Mr Kepli's suggestion, I would like to indicate that the rating and registration of these expert organisations will be carried out by the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers, so I think this is a guarantee that expert organisations will have adequate professional standing. Of course, the National Atomic Energy Office will also be watching and will see the experts with which the stakeholders involved in the authorisation work. In this sense, although the bill does not impose any quantitative restrictions or explicit restrictions on how many places, how many organisations an expert can participate in, I think that the kind of risk that we have heard does not actually occur, since this type of activity of the engineering chamber will be a quality guarantee in this process. So that's all I wanted to say to the speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-17-76	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Kaderjak. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. The Commission's reports to be presented to the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the publication of the Agreement on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/532. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-17-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 June 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/532 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains the amendment proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which includes only technical amendments. The proposal before us is in line with the Government's programme that the Government of Hungary's foreign policy aims to promote the country's international weight by consistently representing Hungarian interests in international fora and bilateral relations. I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal in order to serve these interests more widely, taking into account all this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-17-78	Thank you, Mónika Bartos. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. There will be speeches by Members, in the time frame on the agenda, and in the course of the debate there will be no two-minute comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact on the monitor. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. [[12.40]] It is now time to discuss the amendments to certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as the Commission's reports on the immigration special tax and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/625. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I ask that one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion later. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, A total of 15 minutes are available for the position of the Legislative Committee and for the presentation of the formulated minority opinions, and I will give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee, for the first time in no more than 8 minutes.
u2018-07-17-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as the T/625 on the immigration tax. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 23 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 4 abstentions without discussion on the basis of the decision on certain house rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals of the Economic Committee for amendments have been incorporated into the bill. With the creation of a new tax law, the government intends to simplify the taxation system further, the planned tax changes focus on a radical reduction in administration and the continuation of the tax reduction started. Please support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-17-80	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ovadi. Now I'm going to ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[On the mark of Norbert Izer:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Interventions by Members now take place in time-frames, if any. But a candidate... [[This is Dániel Z. Carpathian.]] I see Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2018-07-17-81	Mr President, Dear House, Along with various tax packages, we have had a number of debates in this House over the last few weeks. I am also surprised by the apparent lack of interest shown by the pro-government representatives on this issue. In the case of the so-called immigration special tax, we have repeatedly named the organization that has consciously, organised the most alien people in recent years, along commission and economic interests. Obviously, I am referring to the residency bond business, which Fidesz-KDNP had to do with, to say the least. Let us consider, without any accusations, the methods and means by which this so-called construction was forced through the Economic Committee. We have still not been given an explanation, although a legitimate debate could be based on the introduction of any new type of tax on who is responsible for the damage to the budget arising from the residency bond business. We are talking about more than HUF 17.5 billion here, Mr. Secretary of State. Let us not forget that between the two dates, so when we started this debate, and when we finish this debate now, we also have a series of figures explaining how much Hungary has to pay in terms of returns on the bonds you have indirectly issued. I would like you to appreciate this sequence of figures as to how much you think this bond construction was worth to Hungary. In my opinion, there was no need for that. I have also looked back after your statements that, during the period when the bond arrangement was introduced, your main argument was to stress that additional funds were needed in the country's difficult financial situation. On the other hand, the bond business has enriched companies in the form of commissions of more than HUF 150 billion, among which can be found in various offshore tomatoes in the Cayman Islands. But we also need to say that we did not find any particular clues as to the need for such a form of additional funding. We found only a few months of term when we could have argued about it, after which the inclusion of external resources from the market was clearly cheaper. I am therefore interested in the opinion of the Secretary of State and my faction as to how much they feel responsible for the tens and hundreds of billions that have been lost. How do you assess, how long and expected the Hungarian taxpayers should be in the form of returns for so-called settlement bonds, I stress that even after this construction was initially suspended, then, obviously in my opinion, at Jobbik's pressure, but who will lead this madness slowly. Many times it has been said that in Western European countries there are many similar structures. This is going to be an ongoing debate between us, as I say that we cannot find a construction on such unfavorable terms for the mother country, let alone in Europe, or perhaps in the world. I look forward to your substantive answer. I very much hope that, not in the closing of the debate, but perhaps even sooner, when I am still able to respond to what has been said. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2018-07-17-82	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to reply. [[On the mark of Norbert Izer:]] Secretary of State Izer Norbert says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-17-83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 19 June 2018, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill amending certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as a bill on the special tax on immigration. During the debate, opposition representatives tabled several motions concerning personal income tax, the vast majority of which initiated the rejection of the proposal to transform the cafeteria system, essentially to maintain the current system. At the same time, it was also clear from the oral statements that the opposition also considers the current system of taxation of benefits that are not subject to pay to be excessive, complex and difficult to transparent, so they are not fundamentally opposed to our simplification efforts. However, when the details were mentioned, everyone was already in practice fighting to maintain the current elements unchanged. These proposals are, of course, not eligible, but the opinions expressed on the scheme confirm that the proposed direction of transformation is good. It is in the interests of workers that the government's often stressed desire to reduce the role of non-money benefits in wages, to receive decent, ever-increasing wages for their decent work, which, at their own discretion, can be spent freely. I think it is necessary to reiterate the fact that, under favourable tax conditions, out-of-wage benefits, the possibility for the employer to contribute financially to workers' expenses in relation to their rest, recreation and health with the help of the SZÉP card remains. An important change is that since the management of the account behind the SZÉP card will be a payment service in the future, both the reference to the SZÉP card and the reference to the SZÉP card will be exempted from the financial transaction fee. Dear House, In line with the measures taken to reduce public burdens over the past period, the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee proposes to abolish their obligation to pay special taxes on investment firms and financial institutions. This reduction is, according to the government's view, a step towards a continuous reduction of the burden on the financial sector, with the aim of continuously strengthening the financial sector, encouraging lending, investment and service activities, and is therefore supported by the government. As regards the small company tax, the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee proposes that the provisions on more favourable conditions of choice should enter into force as from 1 December 2018 in order to allow converting taxpayers to be subject to the kiva in short from 1 January 2019. This also results in the fact that, after the closure of 31 December, taxpayers will not have to close another business year for the fraction due to the transition. [[12.50]] The Government supports the proposal, given that this amendment is intended to simplify administration. In addition, the Economic Committee's amendment proposes to clarify, in the context of the bill, the rules on double taxation for small companies in order not to double the exemption of dividend income, which is also supported by the government. As regards corporate tax, amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee and the Economic Committee propose technical clarifications which contribute to the clear application of law and therefore do not raise any objections from the government. Dear Parliament, In order to comply with the minimum tax requirements laid down in the EU directive on excise duty on manufactured tobacco, Hungary should increase the rate of excise duty on cigarettes. On the basis of the amendment, the rate of taxation of cigarettes and smoking tobacco as substitutes will be gradually increased in small steps in a pre-established manner, in order to avoid market shocks and consequences, i.e. the recovery of black market activity. The rates will rise in three stages: from 1 September 2018 and the next step from 1 January 2019 and from 1 July 2019. Thanks to the small steps, the price of cigarettes per box can rise by only HUF 30-40 per step. Dear Parliament, The Government is supported by the Economic Committee's motion to gradually incorporate the accident tax into the insurance tax in 2019. The main point is that the accident tax liability does not expire for all insured persons from 1 January 2019 only for those with a compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance contract identical to the calendar anniversary, but becomes effective from the insurance anniversary in 2019. At the same time, the insurance undertaking is liable to an insurance tax for the remaining part of the car liability insurance contract in 2019. This amendment fully takes into account the content of the liability insurance contract between the insurance undertaking and the insured person, the fact that the insurance anniversary is typically not the same as the calendar year's turn, i.e. the proposal is adapted to the real legal and economic processes. In addition, not least, it saves a significant administrative burden for insurance undertakings, the tax authorities and insured persons alike, compared to the termination of this insurance tax obligation for each legal entity from 1 January 2019. The loss of accident tax and the obligation to provide insurance after compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance reduce the number of taxes. In no way is it intended to impose a greater tax burden on insurers than is currently borne by insured persons. Therefore, the Economic Committee proposes that the tax ceiling currently in force in the accident tax be maintained and that the tax rate will be lower than that in force. After all, we expect the change to reduce the mandatory car liability insurance premium in the future, as competition between insurers increases, compared to the current insurance premium increased by accident tax. We believe that the elimination of the accident tax is not only beneficial to the insured, the administrative burden on the insurance company is reduced and the budget is not changed. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee also tabled an amendment to the immigration special tax. The former concerned more effective enforcement of the immigration special tax, and the latter, which included the Opinion of the Economic Committee, contained mainly clarification proposals for changes to assist the functioning of the norm. At the same time, the Legislative Committee's motion also formulated an extension of the scope of immigration-supporting activities with the organisation of education. The government agrees with these changes, which do not fundamentally affect the nature of the tax. And allow me, honourable Members, to respond to the question of the Member. I can answer that the special tax on immigration, which is managed by this package of legislation, must, in terms of its impact or purpose, be said that in Hungary the government can imagine a tax increase in three types of areas. We are thinking of a tax increase in areas where the government is taxing a negative activity. This is typical of neta and excise duty, where we want to reduce consumption and another element of taxation, where the government can propose a new tax, i.e. when we want to enforce the rules of public burden-sharing. Thus, a tax will be introduced that will help to ensure that public burdens are uniform in the event of costs being incurred. So, if an activity puts additional costs on the government, then we think that taxation is the fair basis for sharing this together in a fair way in terms of tax burden. Therefore, in view of this, the government submitted this proposal. The amendments to the tax administration included clarifications to facilitate interpretation of the law and added the wording of the transitional provision. The clarification of the transitional provisions became necessary because, like the legislation in force until 31 December 2017, the tax authority's interest payment obligation is re-established in cases where the tax authority's decision is illegal and, as a result, the taxpayer's claim for reimbursement may arise. In this context, it has been stated that the provision on the tax authority's obligation to pay interest should be applied to remedies initiated after 1 January 2018. No further comments were received on the proposals concerning the tax administration. However, I would like to emphasise once again the change that will further simplify the tax compliance of taxpayers in the future. Individual entrepreneurs will also have a personal income tax return and payment deadline and a uniform 20 May after 2019, which will also apply to the 2018 tax year. Thus, the National Tax and Customs Office can prepare the draft declaration together with other natural persons for self-employed persons by this deadline. In addition, legal technical clarifications have been made in the tax procedure laws. Dear House, In the light of what has been said, I call for the support of honourable Members for the adoption of the bill, and I thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-84	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. The Commission's reports on the proposal for a social contribution tax and the final amendment are now under discussion. Government referral T/627. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi of the committee.
u2018-07-17-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee on 12 July 2018 is subject to the provisions of house rules 46. T/627 on the social contribution tax. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report by 28 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 1 vote in favour. The summarised amendment clarifies the proposals of the Economic Committee and includes the legislative committee's own initiative. According to the amendment, the proposal complements the case of exemption from tax by not having to pay taxes on Tbj. the income extracted from an undertaking acquired by a person treated as a foreigner, securities lending income, dividend income, entrepreneurial dividend fund, income derived from exchange rate gains and income treated as other income within the meaning of the law. Dear House, The purpose of the bill on social contribution tax is therefore to combine the tax liability on paying agents and, in the absence of paying agents, on individuals, such as the social contribution tax currently in force and the health contribution, a shorter term, into a tax. The bill contains significant simplifications and proposes the introduction of a single-key social contribution tax. Let us not forget that a few years ago we had five tax rates, and now there are two tax rates in this tax system, and next year we want to introduce a single-key system, and I therefore highly recommend to the House that the proposed legislation be taken into account. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2018-07-17-86	Thank you, Congressman Ovadi. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Izer Norbert says no.]] Secretary of State says not this time. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2018-07-17-87	Thank you for the floor. Just so we know exactly what we're talking about here, after the committee's expo, it's that people under the age of 25 and those over the age of 55 will disappear because of this law. This is also very important because these are the two demographic groups that are particularly difficult to find a job, if you are looking for a first job or if you are trying to find a job after a new job, or if you are already before retirement age but not in retirement age, and then you want to find a job. In the past, these two measures, in order to exempt people under the age of 25 and those over the age of 55, were argued at the time to facilitate this job, his argument was that this should be to make it easier for them to work in the labour market. Since then, the ruling party has argued that Hungary is already performing so well that this is not necessary. For example, I think that the statistics that 20 percent of people under the age of 25 find their first job in a year or more show that the Hungary that you write in their justification, and the Hungary that really exists, is not in a thank-you relationship. I would like to go further on the fact that there were two amendments to the LMP Group, which, unfortunately, has not been heard, about where this social contribution tax should be exempted. One: in the service pensions that you have taken backwards, for example, these people should be exempt from the exemption, and the cafeteria tax exemption has also been submitted to this law. I'd like to keep going. I'd like to read a quote. Although it's not an interactive genre, everyone can figure out who it is from. The quote is as follows:. The Ministry of Finance may, of course, base the end of support on the fact that, according to demographic forecasts, by 2030, one third of European active workers will be out of the 55-64-year-old population. Besides, if only the ageing age group is at the disposal of employers, there is no need to encourage their employment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, I do not think that at 2030, only older workers are now available on the Hungarian labour market, or, if that is the case, the demographic turnaround that you want has somehow failed. So it seems that by 2030, you will be preparing for the demographic turn of your birth to fail, the labour market will grow old, and these people will not have to be encouraged to work, because there will be no other option for the labour market. Although, in the explanatory statement, the retirement age appears in a very interesting way, that those who are able to work alongside a pension will be free from all contributions anyway, and why should they be exempt from the contribution, here I would add that the retirement age is between 58 and 64 years, not over 55 years, so there is a bit of discrimination between the retirement age and what you are saying. It is not possible to accuse the data that I am about to say, so according to a KSH data, 75 percent of workers over the age of 55 feel that they are discriminated against in the labour market because of their age. If that is the case, then the government could really do something to get these people back to work. Even here, I would like to point out what I think could be the real reason for this amendment, despite the fact that here, Congressman Ovadi has said that it will be one-key, everything will be one-key. I would also like to add here that the LMP fundamentally disagrees with the neoliberal logic that everything should always be single-key, that everyone's burdens are the same. We think the rich have to pay more than the poor. But further on, here the government saves 50 billion a year. They increased the provision that was increased by just 50 billion because of the crisis likely to occur or possibly occurring; that this 50 billion had to be taken from right here, when there are thousands of other luxury items in the budget, it is completely incomprehensible to us. So to sum up, I would like to say that although there is a significant difference between the retirement age and the age limit indicated here, and it is particularly difficult for people under the age of 25 to get to work in Hungary, yet this law is being introduced, I would like to point out that the LMP will not support this in the final vote, and we think that instead we should help as many Hungarian people as possible to get to work. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-88	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and I see that Secretary of State Izer Norbert is preparing for a ten-minute closing.
u2018-07-17-89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to respond to Mr Ungár's suggestion that it has been said that the government is trying to save on the benefit of people under 25 and those over 55. I would like to point out that, indeed, these benefits are being taken out, but a greater amount of discount will be introduced, so the two should not be separated. The point of the new discount is that instead of the 100 thousand HUF discount limit so far, the employer will be able to receive a discount up to the minimum wage, so the amount will be significantly higher than that of the currently available discount, and it will be much easier to use this discount from an administrative point of view, as the tax authority automatically indicates that if a person is entitled to this discount. So so far, a manual administrative task has been performed, and from here on, the tax authority can automatically indicate it. The second and third very important point is that, if you do not give, the unexpected situation would occur, for example, that an over 55-year-old gets out of work and can't find a job, then the new benefit is the benefit of new entrants to the labour market, so those who have not been permanently employed within the last nine months have not had an employment relationship within six months and are already entitled to this benefit. Therefore, any over 55-year-old who may be in a difficult situation in the labour market will be entitled to this new higher level of tax relief. So I would like to stress that the new discount system is much more focused, much more targeted and much higher than the current one, so there is no question that the government might want to make savings in this area. On 19 June 2018, the Government submitted this bill on social contribution tax. The bill received a number of amendments, of which Jobbik's and MSZP's proposed amendment initiated the return of the benefits of employees under 25 years of age and over 55 years of age to the benefit of the new social contribution tax, with a limit of HUF 100 thousand. So this is what I have just mentioned, so this amendment also wanted to maintain the old and the current system. This proposal could not be supported in view of the situation in the labour market, nor does it fit the logic of the new benefits, since the benefits will be enforceable up to the minimum wage on the basis of the new rule. Nor was the LMP's proposal to exempt pensions and pension-like benefits from the social contribution tax understood, since no tax is to be paid on these benefits now or in the future. In view of this, we have not been able to support this amendment proposal. Also, the LMP's proposal to exempt paying agents from the social contribution tax on benefits other than salaries, which replaced the health contribution, was not eligible. As of 1 January 2019, the non-wage allowance can be granted with an unchanged tax burden, thanks to the fact that the public charges will be based on the value of the benefit, i.e. the 1,18 times the multiplier currently applicable. Dear House, The amendment tabled by the Economic Committee contained several clarification provisions in the context of the new tax, which further clarify the basis for the tax, the scope of persons liable for tax and the procedural rules. Furthermore, according to the proposal, the tax rules applicable to primary producers will also be clarified in order to ensure that the current rules are modelled so that the tax liability of primary producers does not change, i.e. that, from 2019 onwards, these taxpayers will be able to fulfil the obligation to pay the public burden. The amendment proposed by the Economic Committee proposed to maintain two additional benefits: employment of researchers, developers and tax relief for research and development activities will continue to be available from 2019 to support domestic R &amp; D activities. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to combine paying agents and, in the absence of paying agents, the tax liability on individuals, such as the social contribution tax currently in force and the health contribution, into a tax. [[13.10]] This measure serves both to reduce the number of taxes and to reduce tax administration. I must also emphasise that the bill will continue to contain as little changes as possible to tax obligations in order to ensure that the tax environment is predictable in the future. Dear House, The amendments have increased the scope of the benefits, but it can still be said that from 2019 the benefits from the tax will be more targeted and larger, and employers will be able to enforce them with easier administration, as I indicated at the beginning. Dear Parliament, In the light of what has been said, I call for the support of honourable Members for the adoption of the bill, and I thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-17-90	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the right of assembly and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/707. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-17-91	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 12 July 2018, the members discussed the T/707 on the right of assembly. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. The Legislative Committee has expressed and accepted its own intention to amend further. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2016, the Constitutional Court called on the legislator to align the system of criteria for the right of assembly and the protection of privacy. This was based on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, according to which freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly should not result in harming the private and family lives and the homes of others. In order to resolve the anomalies observed in practice, a new assembly law before us was created as a result of careful and extremely careful professional work. The new bill is based on the German model, respecting and guaranteeing freedom of assembly, as well as modern regulation of the exercise of the right of assembly in accordance with international standards. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-17-92	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] The Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a signal on the monitor. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Obviously, the Secretary of State does not wish to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. The Commission's reports on privacy and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/706. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-17-93	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 12 July 2018, T/706 on the protection of privacy was discussed. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. The Legislative Committee has expressed and accepted its own intention to amend further. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill on the protection of privacy is opening up the right to respect for privacy, family life, home and contacts provided for in Article 6 of the Fundamental Law in view of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. The bill states that the state respects and protects the privacy, family life, home and relationship of the individual. The point of the right to privacy is that, despite the individual's will, it should not be violated by others, with the exceptions laid down by law. The State promotes and supports the development and maintenance of this approach in all areas of social and economic life. The bill provides that in the event of a breach of the right to privacy, everyone may appeal to a public authority or court, as defined in the separate law. In the framework of effective and comprehensive protection, the bill details individual private rights in a separate chapter. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a fundamental right that deserves all people and which must also be respected in the free debate on public affairs. It should therefore be stressed that public and non-public actors have the same right to privacy and home protection. In our view, the free discussion of public affairs should not involve personal and family life and harm at home. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-17-94	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] The Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a signal on the monitor. Dear Parliament, The debate is therefore closed. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] The author indicates that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the protection of business secrets and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/386. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-17-95	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 12 July 2018, the members discussed T/386 on the protection of business secrets. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted an amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, 1 against and 4 abstentions. The Legislative Committee has expressed and accepted its own intention to amend further. Ladies and Gentlemen, The primary objective of the adoption of the bill is to transpose Directive 2016/943/EU on protection against unauthorised acquisition, exploitation and detection of non-public know-how and business information into Hungarian law. [[13.20]] Failure to do so could lead to the opening of infringement proceedings against Hungary. In addition, it was necessary to exclude the substantive provision on the protection of business secrets from the Ptk. placement in the personality legal part and in a separate legal act. Once the provisions on business secrecy are removed from the civil code, protection based on personal rights will be transformed, the business secret will be protected in the future, not by personality law, but by property protection provided by new legislation. This, on the one hand, dissolves the existing Ptk. Its paradoxical solution, that business secrets and protected knowledge or know-how are protected by personal rights, is also marketable and can be alienated at the same time. It also includes a new approach to the limits of business secrecy, as laid down in the Directive, complementing the new, more extensive and effective sanctioning system introduced by the Directive. In view of all this, I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-96	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2018-07-17-97	Mr President, Dear House, The last time we discussed the protection of business secrets in its entirety, Csaba Gyüre, an excellent former colleague, was authorised to share his thoughts on this. I see that this area deserves much more negotiation, a deeper, more thorough discussion, but I fully understand the intention of the government side not to run into a breach procedure, so in order to protect business secrets, it essentially intends to transpose and implement an EU directive into the Hungarian legal system. This in itself is neither a problem nor a problem; it is clear that, from Unicum onwards, Picken has many Hungarian or partly Hungarian interests, the economic protection of which is justified and justified. I would like to draw the legislator's attention, in addition to the fact that I cannot find a point of such gross rejection in this proposal to help these Hungarian interests in other areas, for example, if we look at Pick's case, then the construction of his supplier's network is clearly a business company, so it is up to the company, but the expansion of the legislative framework, the protection of Hungarian interests and Hungarian businesses is clearly a matter for the Hungarian government. I believe that the Hungarian Parliament could make proposals with 100% support that facilitate the situation of domestic companies and companies. On the other hand, I thought that there was a starting trend, in terms of, say, the reduction in corporate tax, where there was an otherwise undisputed, but one-percent concession for Hungarian businesses, while the multi-companies operating here received a tax rate that is essentially typical of offshore tomatoes. I think that if you manage to reshape tax policy a little in order to make support for domestic companies a priority, and foreign interests get involved in public burdens, then the proposal before us really makes sense, then it is possible to exploit the potential of these. So I urge the government not to stop simply from taking over an EU provision, directive or any package, but to move on and to apply other legislation to protect Hungarian interests, even if the package before us does not change a law and tries to intervene more deeply on this issue. I believe that there is still a possibility of a system, whether to create a package of assistance for Hungarian entrepreneurs, adopted jointly by the parties of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-17-98	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I ask that in the remaining timeframes, someone else would like to take the opportunity to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I see that the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, wishes to speak to him. You have ten minutes before closing.
u2018-07-17-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have participated in the debate that has taken place and thank you for the fact that we have been able to approach the debate on this bill on a professional basis. I would like to join Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's comment in that, for the first time in 2010, the tax on Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises was reduced, and it was only at the second stage that larger companies could benefit from this relatively favourable tax rate. I believe that the government is open to any proposal that strengthens the position of domestic companies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-100	Thank you, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the Treaty on State Borders between Hungary and the Slovak Republic and the debate on the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/533. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-07-17-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Treaty on State Borders between Hungary and the Slovak Republic T/533. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 23 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains the amendment proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which includes only technical amendments. The provisions of the old treaty between the Republic of Hungary and the Czechoslovak Republic, signed on 13 October 1956, containing the rules of the state border system, are outdated and therefore a new agreement has been established to meet today's conditions and requirements. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-102	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, but I do not see a candidate on the monitor, so I will close the debate and ask the Secretary of State if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2018-07-17-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/708. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. In a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. [[13.30]]
u2018-07-17-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 12 July 2018, the members discussed T/708. II of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements a bill amending the law. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. The Legislative Committee has expressed and accepted its own intention to amend further. Dear House, The aim of the proposal is the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law and the consistency of the Violation Act. Article XXII of the Fundamental Law Pursuant to Article 15 (3) of the Act, it shall be prohibited to reside in a public area as from 15 October 2018. In our view, this behaviour is a violation of the public use of public areas, which should be combated. In view of the fact that this prohibition is unconditionally imposed by the Fundamental Law, it is also necessary to amend the infringement law in order to ensure coherence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Pursuant to Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, it is prohibited to reside in a public area as from 15 October 2018. In our view, this behaviour is a violation of the public use of public areas, which should be combated. In view of the fact that this prohibition is unconditionally imposed by the Fundamental Law, it is also necessary to amend the infringement law in order to ensure coherence. Thank you for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2018-07-17-106	Thank you, Congressman Ovadi. Dear Parliament, I ask the author, he wishes to speak. [[Charles Kontra says no.]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence Committee. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, rapporteur of the People's Welfare Committee for the debate, within a three-minute timeframe.
u2018-07-17-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that on 9 July 2018 the National Welfare Committee, as a related committee, conducted and closed the 2012 II. on infringement, infringement procedure and infringement registration system as required. T/708 amending Act No. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. Since no amendments were tabled to the proposal, only house rules 44. § (1) could be examined for compliance. Dr. Bence Bodnár, Deputy State Secretary, on behalf of the Ministry of Interior, was present in the detailed discussion of the committee, who concluded that the proposal complies with the house rules 44. § (1) of the directive. This finding was contested by opposition representatives and criticisms were also made of the content of the law. For our part, in agreement with the representatives of the government present, we stressed our position that the proposal meets the requirements in all the necessary circumstances. It is necessary to amend the Fundamental Law, it fits into the Hungarian legal order, it meets the professional requirements of the legislation and international obligations. During the vote, we decided by 9 votes in favour, 4 votes against, to submit a report stating that the proposal complied with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Article 2 Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2018-07-17-108	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Kovács. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, who will present the committee's minority opinion within a three-minute timeframe.
u2018-07-17-109	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I will continue where Mr Kovács has left off, because in our speech, such as Mr László György Lukács and myself, we have said that there are European Union legislation that must be taken into account when discussing the item on the agenda. Such is the amended European Social Charter, Article 31 thereof. §2 of the Treaty, which clearly states that states have an obligation to provide housing and that governments should do everything in their power to ensure that no one has to live in the open air. In addition, I referred to the Gothenburg Declaration, which was signed by the Prime Minister in November of last year, which states that governments clearly have an obligation to remedy these problems. In addition, my fellow Members have suggested that the issue of homelessness can be regulated and included in the scope of a ban. We think that can't be done. In addition, we mentioned that homeless people do not live on the streets willingly, it is simply that they are without shelter, and unfortunately they have no financial means to solve their own problems. At the same time, we have also pointed out that, in many cases, the lack of social care, the lack of social care, the lack of cash benefits or access to social services are preventing these people from getting out of this unworthy situation. I myself referred to the time when the client is considered a contributor, because it is in the regulation that if he accepts the offered service and contacts a street social worker, he is considered a contributor. At the same time, we see that the financial penalty has been abolished in the draft legislation, but there is public service work. However, if there is no public work to be done, then there will be a prison sentence or at least detention for a man who has such problems. What we see is that these social problems cannot be solved by law enforcement, as they could not solve them with the housing park in Ocsa, they could not solve them with the self-destructive institution, they could not, it seems, with the opportunities available to the National Asset Manager, address the problem. The people on the streets were there because, in the absence of income, as I have just mentioned, they cannot afford adequate housing and the solution of street homelessness cannot be dealt with by punishment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar applauds.]]
u2018-07-17-110	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. Dear Parliament, The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, but I do not see a candidate on the monitor. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Károly Kontra indicates that he did. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-17-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed amendment to the bill contains rules other than general rules on procedures against citizens who are living in a public area. The infringement procedure will only be initiated if, despite the policeman's three requests within 90 days, the perpetrator is repeatedly living in the public area. Since the proceedings are made, the data subject will be detained until the accelerated court procedure. Dear Parliament, I hope that the general debate that has been held, by the way, was a passionate debate between the walls of this House and that the Commission resolution also gives us the chance that Parliament will be able to adopt a bill acceptable with broad support here, and it will create a law that will contribute to the further improvement of order and security in Hungary. Thank you for your attention, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-112	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in relation to water abstraction and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/384. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of 8 minutes.
u2018-07-17-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 July 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/384. Bill No. 1. [[13.40]] The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the proposal was not received, but the TAB's own amendment, which was tabled by the pro-government representatives, was submitted. This own amendment also contained substantive and technical amendments to a total of ten points, which were adopted by the Legislative Committee. The Committee shall then make the summary amendment proposal and the summary report in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It also adopted it by 24 votes in favour, 3 against and 7 abstentions. The original bill submitted proposed amendments to three laws, but in the meantime the proposed amendments have already been implemented by other legislative proposals, so only the 1995 LVII on water management. The amendment of the Act was justified, and therefore the title of the bill also refers to the amendment of the Water Management Act on a plurality amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, After the entry into force of the proposal before us, it contains binding guarantee rules for everyone. The purpose of the bill was to establish a regulation which does not require neither authorisation nor notification requirements for drilled wells with a depth of 80 metres; accordingly, water facilities which provide water removals which are not more than 80 metres deep in feet and which do not exceed domestic water demand can be established without authorisation or notification. However, the authorisation considers that it is necessary to maintain the obligation in any form of intervention in cold and thermal karst stocks and bodies of water to be subject to authorisation and, irrespective of water depth and water volume, also to permit abstraction for economic purposes. It was also an important issue for the general public that, in the last year and a half, there was a moratorium on the entry into force of the 1995 Water Management Act, which would have expired on 31 December 2018. This moratorium is extended by this bill until 31 December 2028, so everyone will have time to obtain the necessary permits, and it is absolutely reassuring to have the legal status of existing drilled wells with water exception, as well as water protection issues, I believe that this bill will be resolved in the long term. I also believe that the problem of farmland farmers and household water abstraction will be eliminated. In view of these, I ask you to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-114	Thank you, Congressman László B. Nagy. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2018-07-17-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, there is also a majority and minority opinion because we judge the specific points of the specific proposal differently, in some respects as if we were talking about a different proposal. A very serious social debate has preceded legislation on water abstraction and legislation on water management in recent years, and this is not a coincidence. The vice-president also spoke in the debate on this proposal, and a lot of people mentioned aspects that define the future generation, put the aspects of water base protection on the table, but the other side is also an important issue, i.e. the aspect of these generations and the social aspects on this particular issue. I proposed that the Parliament, each Member of Parliament, take part in the work of aligning these two aspects, that we make a proposal that is suitable for the protection of water bases, the interests of future generations, as well as for the interests of present generations, and that also takes into account the social aspects, because there are many settlements in Hungary where the state does not provide the proper drinking water for Hungarian citizens. So in such a situation, where and what kind of well can be created, what water facilities can be created, is not just the aspect of future generations. I made an amendment, which was already bled out on the Committee on Agriculture, so it did not come to the Legislative Committee in this sense. Here I also spoke about specific numbers, or made a proposal, and ultimately I used 80 metres of depth in this amendment, and in 500 cubic metres per year I tried to determine the amount of water for a 5 thousand square plot. So I think that this was the volume that would have provided, in effect, an appropriate basis for maintaining the farmland, rural life form, which, also considering social aspects, makes it clear that this type of well does not require permission now, there is no moratorium, there is nothing else in this regard. I do not think that the volume of water abstraction in this proposal is so high that it does not meet the criteria of water base protection. Unfortunately, there was no support for this proposal. The rapporteur for the majority opinion has not yet mentioned the one moment that, by the way, these figures will be defined in a government decree, obviously even in different geographical areas. I obviously understand, they didn't accept my proposal, I'm sorry, I think it would have been good, but then these issues will be defined in a government decree. On the Legislative Committee, I asked the present representative of the government if he could at least know something in outlines about the directions that will determine this government decree, how it will be built up about it, but we have not really heard any specific information about it. The fact that the proposal has not been adopted will obviously determine their voting behaviour, but I would now take advantage of the possibility that, since you will now adopt this legislation, not now, on Friday, I think it would be good for all opposition groups to be informed of how they intend to draft this government regulation. Therefore, before the creation, the opposition groups would be informed of the basic issues concerning the government regulation, and of course also the public about what they can expect, how to organise their lives and what parameters they can count on. In addition, I think it is necessary that we define the concept of domestic water demand very precisely and very clearly in this respect, and that it contains the water needed to water the houses and supply them, so that this concept is defined very precisely. That's all I was gonna say. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-07-17-116	Thank you, Congressman László Varga. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to comment now or at the end. [[For signal:]] At the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, who will present the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development.
u2018-07-17-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Sustainable Development, a minority opinion was expressed by the two of us and the opposition representatives, representing Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the chairman of the committee, and the fact that this proposal poses a threat to our water bases from a sustainability point of view, a threat to the treasure that is one of Hungary's most valuable natural treasures, its still abundant drinking water and water resources. [[13.50]] At the moment, this water supply is not only threatened primarily by illegally drilled wells, but I am obviously referring to the decades-old heritage that remained here as a consequence of industrial activity, and which ticks like a time bomb in many places under our feet in the country, as there are many areas that have not yet undergone remediation, and there are dangerous substances in the ground, even above the surface of the earth, and are endangering our water bases. There is a constant risk of contamination. We've talked about this a lot, and we're going to talk about it here in Parliament. However, how can contamination enter these water bases, into these water bodies? Obviously, it can infiltrate through the soil, or through wells drilled and constructed in a way not known by the state, as they form a direct link between the surface and the body of water, as easily as possible. Not only can water be extracted, but pollution can also get down, this is why these deep drillings are dangerous. Of course, Jobbik does not want to prevent watering for home, garden, or garden purposes, or to impose any burden on Jobbik. Because knowing where, who, in what form, has deepened such wells and holes, and there is an accurate cadastral for the competent authority, how and how this is done in the country, does not mean that this would be any burden for those who set up these wells for their own family use. Of course, we do not want to put the garden crop, family farming, in any difficult situation, or make it impossible for them not to be able to irrigate their gardens from these climate aspects in rather critical times. Once again, it is a matter of having to be checked, because it is the duty of the state, the government, to intervene and to check who deepens these wells under what conditions and how. This proposal would allow this to happen practically freely, without being subject to any authorisation up to a depth of 80 metres. This is considered unacceptable as a minority opinion of the committee and we have asked the Government to withdraw this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-118	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Kepli. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr László Hajdu, on behalf of the DK Group.
u2018-07-17-119	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. There has been a long debate on this in the Committee on Sustainable Development; Mr Vice-President, my fellow Member Kepli, has already mentioned this. I asked to speak for the following reasons. One is that at some point, when the farmman used the groundwater, he dug a well of six to seven meters [6 to 7 m], took out some buckets of water and watered his small garden. But that's not what this is about. The point is that modern tools can drill water in very different layers, and modern pumps can pull it properly. I have just heard a new word from the author: compared to the original proposal, only what is not for economic purposes is not subject to authorisation, so what is family and other. But that doesn't come automatically from the text of the law. It may be that the implementing regulation, which will be adopted in this case, will set some kind of limit, but the limit of 80 metres suggests that this will be industrial exploitation. 80 meters of well is a family house, no matter how small it is, or even a few acres, it cannot drill, even because of its costs. The other: the proposal did not have to have a plan, it did not require a permit, and the contractor did not need a permit. Today, the contractor needs an accredited license. The only way to go to a well drill is to start and drill a well, but to have a permit. Originally, these wells could have been made by bunglers, at least that's what they looked like. A small amendment to the proposal, which we have heard from my fellow Member, as an oral addition, is that it can actually be used for domestic water demand and family water demand, but above that it is already subject to authorisation and is likely to be concentrated. How is the use of water supplies today? There are wells and drilling today. At the Hungarian level, almost all of the more wealthy municipalities have a well drilled, since the sports or public parks in the area of municipal institutions are provided with watering water from drilled wells, which would be a great luxury if they watered the park with the drinking water delivered to it with expensive money and used it to water football fields or sports fields. That's why they're drilling, paying a water supply fee, so it's licensed. This one has a regular bill, and a watch is being installed recently. In the case of Budapest, such drilling is time-bound when we do not use high-quality drinking water from the network for family purposes, sports purposes or industrial purposes. This proposal, with its 80-metre drilling edge, is a very, very serious matter. I have to add that there are dwarf waterworks and water collection works in various settlements in Hungary, where there is no such deep well, i.e. 80 meters, and of which water supply is provided for the settlement or several settlements. I really asked for a word because, on the one hand, I miss the fact that I believe that water resources are a national asset in Hungary and that this national wealth must be kept as a value; I join the speakers before me. I would just like to mention an example, and I would take it from no other place than Budapest. In Budapest, the city is supplied with drinking water from the coastal-filtered wells, the wells on the Danube coast, but the water is so deep that it has to be cleaned as sewage to go into the network as drinking water. Therefore, it is important to be very careful that layers of water, soil water, and even lower water are becoming increasingly polluted. It was also a good word, it was said here that thermal water should not, of course, be affected, but there is a place where even the thermal water can be met at a depth of 80 meters. However, the connection that is created by drilling the well between the groundwater and the surface presents a great deal of danger. I think that when the implementing regulation will be drawn up in this respect by the Ministry, it should be issued very strictly, also in accordance with the requirements of sustainable development, in accordance with the strict water management law adopted earlier in 1995, and that this illegal water withdrawal should not be an area of profit and profit for non-paying people who use part of their national wealth for production purposes. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-120	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2018-07-17-121	Thank you. I try not to repeat myself, and what I have already said as a minority opinion as rapporteur for the committee, I try not to list again. It is true and true that this proposal is very important because perhaps one of our most important natural resources, our natural treasure, has been mentioned before in drinking water. The foot depth of 80 meters is a very large measure, especially in the light of the fact that most of Hungary's drinking water supply, most of it is extracted from the shallowest wells. So, basically, most of our drinking water base lies in areas less than 80 metres shallow, and in Hungarian it does not reach a depth of 80 metres. This means that although there was a condition that all kinds of activities remain subject to authorisation in the case of karst water, cold and thermal karst water, however, if the well can be drilled up to 80 metres without a permit and notification requirement, this does not ensure that these water resources will not eventually be endangered, which, at an average plain underground water base, poses a sufficiently high risk, but at a karst water base, where virtually everything is connected and these karst water bodies cross over several kilometres, a contamination may mean that even a total drinking water base is withdrawn from circulation by not paying sufficient attention to regulation to prevent such damage to the drinking water base. [[14.00]] So I can continue to say, not only as a minority opinion of the committee, but also as a description of the position of the Jobbik faction, that we would very much like to see water supply and irrigation available in Hungary for agricultural purposes to a much greater extent than at present. However, this would be based on a comprehensive water management arrangement, which Jobbik has long proposed and advocated. In our election programmes, we have always devoted a separate chapter to this topic in successive cycles. This cannot be solved only by building on underground water resources and water bodies, even at a family or family level; so even if we are not thinking of large-scale agriculture, but also small gardens and kitchen gardens in the area of family houses, it is not possible. [[Dr. László Varga will be replaced by István Szávay in the notary seat.]] This requires the use of our surface water resources. Otherwise, it would be completely illogical to base the watering on groundwater resources only, because we know that a huge amount of water flows through rivers in the form of surface water in Hungary, and we use only a very minimal part of it. I mean, we're not prepared to hold the waters, store them. We would need a complex water management reform that does not fall within the scope of this law, but it is very much waiting for itself, and it would be very, very good for the government to take action to do so, which would allow us to keep these waters flowing through Hungary without any meaningful exploitation in reservoirs, in different ways, and to use it either for irrigation or for the treatment of serious groundwater problems. After all, problems in the area of sandbacks in the middle of the Danube-Tisza area, which affect the desiccation of wells and the increasing level of groundwater, can only be intensified by virtually anyone at home drilling a well, and can use the water and groundwater resources obtained for irrigation purposes. In Hungarian, quantitatively or qualitatively, water abstraction is not checked, as it is not even subject to announcement. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So, if we plan in the long term, we also take into account the interests of future generations of Hungarians, it cannot be a goal to exploit our water resources in this way, even if this is not done on an industrial scale, but in the area or form of family farming or family married zones. But if there is no inspection, if there is no obligation to notify, how do we know exactly who and how much water will be extracted from these wells and for what purpose? This is a very interesting question that you may be able to settle with government orders, but even more likely you won't. After all, the whole of the regulation is probably due to the fact that the competent authority in Hungary is already unaware of where, and by number, how many wells have been established in Hungary. There was a well register, so to speak, with the water authority, but it was also primarily the monitoring wells for testing purposes, the larger water extraction works for economic purposes, and if this database is still available. The water institutional system has been so successfully destroyed and eliminated by the Vituki and other institutions where they were still available, this large information and knowledge base, that I do not even know if it can be restored at all, or who is currently exercising supervision over these information and databases. But the fact is that when we had to assess the impact of a well on groundwater, we had problems a decade ago when we tried to get data from a well at the water authority, because they often didn't know that this well existed. When I was an environmental engineer, this was a common problem when we tried to carry out these licensing procedures and prepare the documentation. With regard to water resources, we already have the effect of what happens when our water base is contaminated because we do not pay proper attention to it, we do not protect it from pollution. It is just one thing that, in the time before the change of regime, there was no culture of not contaminating the soil and of not getting into the drinking water base. But the problem is that there are still hundreds or thousands of other points in Hungary where there is a risk of potential pollution, which the government always takes when civil society organisations or people living in the country have already drawn attention to the untenable situation, or even at times. After all, there are landfills of hazardous waste tons where the government says that since the company that operated it is not yet liquidated, the state does not intervene, it is obliged to do so. Of course, the debtor doesn't exist anymore, only on paper, he won't do anything. Time is passing and the risk of contamination is increasing. I have just said these things because, as far as water bases are concerned, of course, this is closely linked to how this pollution gets down to the water base through these deep, established wells. After all, these wells are not only suitable for extracting water through them, but also for, as I have just said, getting pollution down into these otherwise closed water bodies, because this waterproof layer is drilled when we deepen the well, and through this, of course, there is a potential risk that this precious natural treasure will be destroyed and contaminated. In addition to the comprehensive solution on Hungary's water management, on the one hand, regarding this bill, we can propose that the government withdraw this proposal and bring it back to the House, either in the autumn session, with proper foundation. Moreover, there is a great deal of opposition from professional organisations, including well drills themselves, as they consider it unprofessional and dangerous. Obviously, because well drilling, as has already been said from the mouth of my fellow Member, is a profession that cannot be done in a brazen way. After all, we need to be careful about the damage we do when the wells are deepened, and also about the professional implementation of the particular hole. Well drills practice this as a profession, while if anyone can do this without permission and any announcements, it can obviously have a completely different result. So again, to withdraw the proposal, to agree with the profession, of course, in the profession we mean the water trade and the well drill itself. And then bring it back to the House, how to solve what we otherwise sign and support, that a simple family, whether in the lowland or in the Danube, living in any part of the country, whose own farmland needs to be watered and researched, can do so without endangering the groundwater bases without causing any other burden to them. I mean, I can't stress this enough. No one wants that. We really want it to be easier to irrigate backyard areas, but at the same time we stand by our strength and energy to protect our water resources. For us, this chance can only be played once. Once this water resource is contaminated or obtained in an uncontrolled form quantitatively and qualitatively, we are facing a very difficult situation for the future. There are already a number of areas in Hungary where it is very difficult to provide adequate healthy drinking water to the population, whether because of arsenic content or other problems, sometimes a water base is contaminated, then drinking water must be brought into that area from somewhere else. So they are also serious billions, and environmental damage and ideal value cannot be assessed in these cases. That is why the government must pay greater attention to the future, to sustainability, to greater emphasis, and to consider such legislative proposals much better in this respect, and not only for momentary backgrounds, political interests, and well-communicable legislative proposals, to give up our long-term water management or environmental sustainability interests. We can't support this in this way. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.10]]
u2018-07-17-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the speeches. Member László B. Nagy of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, because I see that this debate is very extensive, and from the environmental point of view, there have also been questions about agricultural production. Obviously, the water issue in Hungary is a very important issue in the whole world. But where we are now, where we started, and what put this law in a state of urgency, is that the 1995 LVII. Law had a moratorium that expires on 31 December. When the notaries received the enforcement of the law last year, they panickedly started calling the government, the representatives, everyone, how this could be done. Before that, no one had dealt with this in Hungary, at least not in the Great Plain. Ninety-five percent of drilled wells are practically homemade. Believe me, there wouldn't be villages on the sandback in the Great Plain today if there were no wells. In an area where there was never any drinking water on the line, villages that are now flourishing beautifully in difficult landscapes on quicksands could not have developed. We also have beautiful villages in the sandback. This was essentially caused by the entry of pipe wells from the 1950s, so that everyone could build and farm houses. Today, no one knows how many pipe wells there are in Hungary that work, or how many pipe wells there are that don't work. Especially in the Great Plains with small farmers, I think it's almost everywhere, and there's no house in the Great Plain where there's no well. For this reason, this issue is not negligible either politically or in any way. We're talking about the question of hundreds of thousands of people here. The possibility that these wells have created has enabled the normal food industry, normal agriculture, gardening and grape culture to develop in Hungary in a region where it is not possible because of the characteristics. I think that this amendment to the 1995 law may not be the most perfect solution in the world, but it is necessary to solve this amendment that has created in our past history, in the last 50 to 70 years, the social opportunities that exist now. Believe me, I have looked up a lot of technical questions, in the enforcement order of Law 95, the authorisation procedure as a well depends on the type of well that would have cost 300-500-700 thousand forints. Think of it: if there had been two or three in the farmland, sandback and lowland areas where such wells might have been located, this authorisation procedure would have been extended to these existing wells, another question would have been that there were no specialist teams in the country, and there were no technical experts or water specialists who would have been able to assess this and carry out permits to this extent, it would have been necessary to make an effort only because of the Law 95, which would have reached 10 to 20 percent of the value of some farms, to which we would have helped with this Act 95, to speed up the farmland area even more, the depopulation of the Great Plain. I think it is a very important issue in social policy that we do not allow this in any way not only with regard to wells, but also with other laws like this. They have enough problems with farmland, difficult, little gold - crowned farming, agricultural ageing people and keeping young people on the ground. I think the law is current. I think the law is responding just as well. The danger of a mass beginning now without permission to drill wells to a maximum depth of 80 meters for people's domestic use is not, I think, a reality. That well drillers are drilling is natural, because the well drilling profession has professional requirements that must be respected, and the well drill itself is what the drilling well's licensing process is like, and I don't think his technology is affected, I don't think he's going to be drilling with rusty and lumpy pipes not complying with technological rules. So that's not the danger, by the way. I would say to the better Member, by the way, that they were, by the way, last year, before last year, but especially last year, they are the biggest advocates for this law to be implemented. I think that, now that the law is on the table, this should not be done, I do not understand why they would only come out of this on the basis of certain aspects which, by the way, do not belong closely to this subject. There is much to argue about your points, which is largely justified, the question of environmental protection, water quality protection, Hungary's water base, and also the question of the possibility of irrigation of agriculture. These are not specific to this issue. This amendment is about legalising a law that makes the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens who live in the countryside calm down, do not disturb, live their lives, and preferably produce, irrigate, water and develop. This requires a legal form, because I'm telling you, the moratorium would have expired on December 31st. What you've been talking about is that there's gonna be some business here, and there's no such thing as an agricultural greenhouse, no farm animal farm, that someone doesn't ask for a water license, because otherwise they don't get the building permit. It's very difficult in private homes, too. For example, there is an anomaly, which is also not included in the request for water rights in the farm environment for lending and licensing. Do not imagine that if a livestock farm, a foil house, a greenhouse or any agricultural holding establishes any property in the form of an undertaking in the countryside and that it needs water to do drilling without a water law permit because it does not receive a building permit. I think that other legislation excludes this problem. My colleague, Mr Lajos Kepli, drew attention to the quality of drinking water, arsenic. Basically in Hungary, in the Great Plain, I do not think that the quality of the waters there is getting so bad, and not the danger, but the parameters of the regulatory system and water quality have changed in such a way that, according to the rules of the European Union, we have to deal with water protection and water treatment. I believe that the change of rules has caused a greater problem so far than the change in water quality. Allow me only one additive, whether the water will run out in Hungary or not. The first thermal well was drilled in Szentes in 1951. Since 1951 it has been the production road, and since 1951 the depth of the water and the depth of the water have been in the same place. So there's a miracle in the Carpathian Basin, because we get water all the time. Depending on this, our waters need to be protected, managed usefully, and much more effort is needed to improve the irrigation system of Hungarian agriculture. I'm going to talk about this a lot more, and I'm sorry to have kept you. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-17-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Gergely Arató has checked in from the DK Group in the existing timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to use the time frame after all the discussion of the Commission report to draw your attention to the very specific legislative technique that is taking place in this bill, as well as the fact that the legislative committee's amendment essentially replaces the original bill, from the title to all the paragraphs, to delete the original text in each paragraph and to enter a new text. It even changes the entry into force, it is particularly welcome, because there it provides at least a longer preparation period. I understand that this bill is urgent, but couldn't it have been done in such a way that this could be a valid debate? Because thus, in this form, this proposal and this technique make Parliament's debate formal and pointless, because we did not have the general debate on the proposal that we will then vote on at the end. This is unacceptable. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] [[14.20]]
u2018-07-17-126	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, from the Jobbik Group, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-127	I'll be brief. Congressman, believe me, we, too, have expressed our concerns about people living on sandbacks and people living in Hungary in general, so I have said my own concerns. We want Hungary to have such water management and laws that we do not just reminisce that settlements have been established on the sand bank for fifty years because these wells were available, that is true, but we want these settlements to be alive in 50 years' time, and in these settlements it is possible to talk about taking water out of the wells, not deserting them, not being depopulated. So let us all join together in this, Parliamentary parties, and I think that there is no difference between us, and that is why we are drawing up our legislative proposals. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-17-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate for expressing their thoughts, and the debate clearly shows that Members, Parliament, are concerned about the state of our environment and is concerned about the drinking water base. Of course, this includes the fact that during the period during which domestic water collection works should have been prepared with a notification obligation, the organisations designated for this purpose have not done so, have not requested permissions, or have not announced the preparation of wells by citizens, so they have created a situation in which documentation, documents that can otherwise be obtained under relatively easy authorisation or notification obligation have not been obtained and the government or parliament has been put in an emergency situation. It is clear to everyone, and I think it is clear that, in order to protect the water base, it is absolutely necessary not to contaminate the soil, we need to know where the water extraction equipment is located, but no one wants to impose unrealistic burdens on the owners, not even on those who otherwise did not comply with the necessary cooperation when preparing the wells. Thus, it can be said overall that this proposal contains an amendment to the 1995 Act and, as has been said here in the debate, essentially with the aim of removing fines and unbearable financial burdens from the shoulders of those with existing wells. At the same time, the law and the subsequent government decision want to ensure that such wells do not come into existence on water bases that are at risk, on water bases that are sensitive. We want to establish a regulation to ensure the protection of the water base, ensure sustainable development and, without a permit for survival, no wells can be established in vulnerable areas. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. The Commission's reports on the monitoring of foreign investments in breach of Hungary's security interest and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now taking place. Government referral T/628. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all my fellow Members on the Parliament's IT network. The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion drafted in the committee, so at this moment, I am not at my disposal as to who it will be. I'll ask you to check in when you need to. I ask that one of the present members of the committee wishes to present this minority opinion later. [[No signal coming through.]] I don't see any contact. A total time frame of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. An 8-minute time frame will be available to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Péter Ovádi, who would like to give a voice to the minority opinion by the time he finishes. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-07-17-131	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 July 2018, the members discussed T/628. Proposal for a Law on the control of foreign investments in breach of Hungary's security interests. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted an amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. The Legislative Committee has expressed and accepted its own intention to amend further. Dear House, The control of foreign investment in sectors of the national economy that are particularly important for the security of the country and for the care of the population is in the best interests of all nations. Many Member States of the European Union control foreign investment from outside the European Union and the European Economic Area for certain sectors. The regulation of Member States in this area is diverse, not only in respect of the sectors under control or the instrument of control, but also in respect of the value to be protected as a basis for the restriction. This is also the purpose of the bill presented to this House by the Minister of the Interior. In certain cases, the proposal establishes a notification obligation for foreign investors, such as the establishment of a branch, the acquisition of a holding of more than 25 per cent or the acquisition of a right to operate. On this basis, the activities subject to notification include, in particular, the production of weapons and ammunition, the production of military equipment subject to authorisation, the supply of electricity, the supply of gas, the production of dual-use items, the production of secret service equipment, the development of electronic information systems. The proposal aims to enable the State to continue to take action against the economic influence of investors from foreign countries in certain sectors, which is in breach of Hungary's security interest. Please vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm gonna ask you again, someone from the TAB is here to give you a minority opinion. [[Dr. Varga-Damm on Andrea's mark:]] I'm asking Andrea Varga-Damm that you're a member of the TAB. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No.]] Then you can't give that committee a minority opinion. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I didn't mean to!]] Thank you very much. I believe you'd speak up, but there's another way. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tibor Pogácsás, that he would like to speak now. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] You don't wish to speak, thank you very much. That gives you ten minutes to tell me the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. Once again, I stress that a two-minute speech is not possible during the debate. I would like to speak first of the Jobbik Group to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman. And if you've applied here, I'm sorry about the interlude.
u2018-07-17-133	Here, thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate on the proposal, I shared with you a few thoughts about the fact that if Hungary did not have such a great lack of confidence in the leadership of political public life, then we could even say that this bill is justified and that the protection of the security of our nation is indeed above all else. [[14.30]] If we hadn't seen in the last eight years that all the legislative proposals, otherwise created with a very strong sense of nation consciousness and responsibility, would have served some kind of individual or economic community interest, then we could say today that such a proposal could be voted blindly. But since the last eight years have taught us how to fidesz, and we know precisely that no bill is in the interest of the community, but it is either in the interests of an individual or of a rather narrow economic lunar station, for example, evidence of what my fellow Member Gergely Arató said a few minutes ago that he would present a bill, in principle he might have a reason for it, and what we are voting for, is nothing like himself. There can be no other reason than the fact that legislation is surrounded by a powerful group of economic and political lobbying interests, who can at any moment, at any moment, transform any proposal that is otherwise justified and in the interest of our nation, which is no longer similar to the original content of the text, but is far from the intention at all. You will remember that in the general debate I said that thirty years ago, my dissertation discussed the investments of foreigners in Hungary, and I led through both domestic and international law history and comparative analysis, and it is really shocking that, after all this time, this law will create a system of investors generating absolute shut-in, which is the biggest problem: stroman systems and abusive behaviour. There is no doubt that you will vote for it, but let me make a few thoughts now, precisely because when someone in two or three years' time, I think there will be someone who will put the experience of this proposal on paper to see what they will meet. I have already mentioned that although I understand the highlight of these economic sectors, that only investors who do not violate the interests of our nation come to Hungary in these cases, there are still a few areas of expertise in Hungary that could be protected in the same way, if this bill were not motivated by the intention to acquire the entire economic hegemony for the new oligarch system, which has already been established around the governing forces. Indeed, when we read this law, and we see these otherwise strategically important sectors through energy from the point of view of arms trafficking, then any citizen could say, "Wow, but good, really, don't let those who could harm the interests of our nation come here." Only the citizen, when drawing up this opinion, does not recall that 25,000 people from countries outside Europe have been settled in Hungary in recent years, who are established not only in Hungary but also in the EU. It does not even occur to the citizen that if a person comes from outside the borders of the Union or the Swiss Confederation, he does not have to do anything but create a company in the territory of the Union or Switzerland, and it will soon be an EU organisation, and it does not have to be included in this legislation, even if the legislator considers that there are rules in this which could eliminate this. It can be concluded from this legislative proposal that if an investor from abroad in these economic areas, from the countries covered by it, wants to come here, he does not need to do anything other than to give a mandate to an international law firm for two or three days and it will ensure that it does not fall within the scope of this legislation. You know very well that it may be possible to communicate well either to the oligarchs or to society, how you will protect Hungary's security interests with this legislation, but the fact is that it will not work that way in reality. It is not a coincidence that I mentioned earlier that the 1988 XXIV. After a few years, the approval of the law above 50 percent was repealed precisely because it seemed that fewer and fewer people were asking for permission, but more and more of them became strong. An increasing number of 80-year-olds suddenly became the buyer of major economic organizations with a pension of HUF 20,000, and more and more of them appeared as owners of non-specialized persons who, of course, became involved in a system of abuse of this right. I ask the honourable author, the representatives of the honourable Government, to consider whether it would be much easier to maintain this legislation or to maintain the proposal, because it will not achieve the objective it is destined for. Those who have ordered this proposal will not be satisfied with it, and it really would not be good if, in a year and a half, such a proposal had to be taken forward again and chewed on in this House, who would be in the best interest of us to vote on it or not. I would like to stress that the Jobbik Group and the Jobbik Party are on the basis that Hungary's national security interests are protected from attacks expected through the blood flow of the economy, not only in these economic sectors, but in everything. Only if this is already the aim, I would like to ask with great respect that a corresponding proposal be put forward here, and indeed do not create a basis for a series of abuse-like behaviours to follow the entry into force of a new legislation. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-135	Mr President, Dear House, Yes, we can see that the government's performance in this debate is somewhat braked, as it is not considered particularly important at both State Secretary level and at the level of its representatives to comment on this very large proposal in substance, although we may have heard a majority opinion at the beginning, and this leads us to take part in the debate. At the same time, I appeal to the secretary of state for a briefing on whether we can expect the usual form again, that they will respond to what has been said at the end of the debate, which we can no longer live with a parade post. I take it out of the group dynamics that we do, but we are telling the protocol and history: if you would have conducted this debate fairly with us and an excellent piece of legislation could now be adopted by Parliament, we would be able to prevent exactly the same situations that you, together with us, challenged in 2010. What do I mean? For example, French voucher companies who broke into the Hungarian market and basically implemented acquisitions that enabled them to damage the Hungarian national economy for years and to damage the Hungarian people's wallets. If we didn't see businessmen near Fidesz getting a power plant every day, getting hotel chains, buying up or getting full vacation villages, we might be able to be a little more optimistic about the bill. At the same time, this has not changed substantially since the general debate, and we see that, in view of similar foreign acquisitions, Fidesz is presumably preparing to select, examining where, in the event of a foreign acquisition, it might be able to replace its own oligarchs, businessmen with the desire to acquire a stake or share in the area concerned, and then replacing the foreign investor and putting his hands on this territory. Obviously, this is a very dark picture, and it assumes a dark vision, but this has not been resolved either during the general debate or during the detailed debate, where I would like to emphasise once again: the Fidesz-KDNP has a braked foam. I have to say that we should look, say, at the energy sector, where, in about eight days, Balliberal economic terrorists sold out several sectors, or two more, to strangers, provided them with a guaranteed asset-proportional profit, which has even increased over time, i.e. Hungary, the Hungarian national economy, and the Hungarian citizens have suffered devastating damage of a hundred billion-dollar magnitude. [[14.40]] Then, in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP, which would have had the opportunity to at least partially take account of this issue, did not, unfortunately, do so. If it had been available then, at the time of the acquisition, or, let us say, only in 2010, a fair bill such as this, arguing with the entire Parliament that this House could give a hundred percent blessing on it, then I believe that the Hungarian national economy would not have had a good chance of being harmed, or if it had been achieved, it would not have been so bad. At the same time, we see that it is difficult to distance itself from the continuing intentions of the Fidesz-near oligarchs, and when we see that foreign investors that I have not otherwise preferred and in no way supported by the government are going to fall into the background of the government's activities, then it is not fair and, where appropriate, entirely independent entrepreneurs from politics, and I would support this, but, where appropriate, people in a completely different field will be large farmers or owners of huge land, or power plant owners. And I really don't want to be personal, but at national level, the hundreds of billionaires, even those that can be measured annually, the acquisition sea or tsunami close to the Fidesz moonyard, which we are experiencing, does not make this proposal eligible, as the horse is hanging out, there is a clear government intention to what this bill was for, and what additional desire for acquisition is working in the drafting Members, more specifically in those who placed the order. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás if he'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State, you have the floor, 10 minutes on schedule.
u2018-07-17-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition's attitude to the bill was interesting, since basically the intentions of the bill were not disputed or even agreed, and then all the speeches became a daily, current party political debate or speech. But in that regard, I think everyone agrees that it is in Hungary's primary interest to monitor foreign investments in some sectors and major sectors for the sake of national security, for the sake of the safety of the population. Therefore, it is not only a Hungarian wish, in virtually all the countries of the European Union, that has been resolved in some way. Some of the amendments submitted after the general debate define an additional case for the control of investments in addition to the acquisition of ownership and the acquisition of the right to operate, meaning that the obligation to notify also covers foreign investors who, when gaining influence in Hungary, are not yet engaged in regulated activities, but are later newly included in their activities. Thus, without State control, the activities covered by the proposed legislation cannot be carried out by a company whose profile of regulated activities was only subsequently included. It is amended that the administrative deadline available to the Minister for taking note of the notification or for taking a decision prohibiting it will be increased from 30 days to 60 days, in particular when it is necessary to seek appropriate powers from abroad in order to make informed decisions. A further amendment is that it intends to confer on the State body or bodies to be designated in the Government Regulation the powers of control originally assigned to the Minister who was originally authorised to carry out the procedure relating to the notification procedure, so that public bodies with a sufficient level of insight into the areas concerned with special expertise and a necessary apparatus can carry out the verification. Further amendments to the bill will lead to minor linguistic and legal clarifications that have become necessary in the context of the text. So far, there has been no such legislation in the domestic legal system, and I believe that this legislation serves the right purposes and that official control of foreign investments that are considered to be national security-critical will be an effective and effective tool. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting on Friday. A joint debate on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code is now taking place in an exceptional procedure. The presentation submitted by our Fidesz colleague Judit Bertalan, Dr. Czunyiné, is T/856. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, in the debate, Mrs Czunyiné, Mrs Judit Bertalan, rapporteur of the bill, took the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-17-139	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, The proposal before us to amend the Criminal Code contains two points. Let me start by saying that the bill proposes the introduction of a new element of facts, namely, in the context of an unfortunate event, this is nothing more than the Italian bus tragedy in Verona, so the accident occurred on 20 January 2017, mostly due to a bus carrying students and teachers. Obviously, a number of measures taken by the government since then have tightened up and defined passenger transport and students' requests for authorisation and the purchase of permits and increased safety in the regulation of children and, moreover, passenger transport. However, since 20 January 2017, although the government, as I mentioned, has already tightened the rules on bus excursions with effect from 1 January 2018, both the age of motor vehicles and the number of hours and days spent driving, the Klebelsberg Centre itself regulates the rules on the organisation of bus class excursions for schools for the safety of our children and students, however, or perhaps the current investigation procedures and current procedures reveal circumstances that have a reason for the legislator to call attention to the prevention of such cases with the rigour of the criminal law, so that, in the form of ultima ratio, the deterrent effect of the criminal code can be detected. Therefore, I propose that the Criminal Code be supplemented by the management of a vehicle for the carriage of passengers illegally transformed with a new situation and that this behaviour be severely punished. This is due to the above mentioned: to prevent, in particular, future consequences arising from the tragedy in Verona and to prevent similar problems. We know that road transport is a dangerous plant, we know that driving road vehicles carries an increased risk, but perhaps for the safety of our children and, as I refer to it in the facts, it is not only children, but also the transport of elderly or sick persons that we need to feel special security when we allow our family members, family members and road vehicles to travel by organised or otherwise. So I think that the regulation draws attention to the fact that the person who, by the way, has been illegally and unlawfully transforming this vehicle yesterday, would perhaps be able to use the term sufnituning, is an attitude which is illegal, and the penalty for this is important for all those who make the wrong or inadequate transformation, and for those who go into the road market with such a vehicle. Obviously, this bill, this section of the Btk., is intended to punish more severely the person who drives the vehicle thus transformed, as the driver's liability is also defined and described in other road legislation. On this basis, the proposal proposes, taking this into account, to punish and to bear the consequences of driving an illegally modified passenger vehicle. The concept of motor vehicles itself and the technical examination of motor vehicles itself are carried out according to a separate procedure, which is also a regular thing. [[14.50]] This fact can also draw attention to the fact that due to the consequences after the examination, the technical examination itself and the licensing authority should be closely monitored and the consequences of this should be brought to the attention. This Criminal Code paragraph is therefore about, and behind it, the intention of the legislator to prevent such a serious tragedy resulting from vehicle conversion due to a tragic human error such as last year's, or even from a human error resulting from faulty vehicle conversion, or to reduce this possibility by means of regulation. So the introduction of this place of law and the wording of this new reality is about whether, in the future, a serious tragedy such as that of verona is not, or is not, limited, at all, possible, anyone who drives a illegally modified passenger vehicle should face the rigour of criminal law when driving and driving the vehicle. This is part one of the bill. The second part is an addition to the element of harassment. Perhaps I would only draw attention to it in a few sentences, although the harassment at the beginning does not change Btk. According to its 222th fundamental position, i.e. it does not change in view of the conduct of the offence, the manner in which it was committed or the subject matter, as suggested in this proposal, a method of committing an offence which is incompatible with the integrity of the official, in a place or in a time of time. This is important, obviously even here at the debate of the Legislative Committee yesterday, we started to understand this grammatical, semantic interpretation. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the basic position of harassment itself uses a term used in the common sense in accordance with the general rules of the Hungarian language. This expression, which we use here in the wording, suggests that the Member of Parliament himself... although I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that it is a matter of an official, and in relation to the official person, it is not primarily the Members of Parliament, but the purpose of this legislation is to protect many other persons in the public interest and to protect them from more serious harassment. At this moment, when we are talking about an official, and by calling on the general provision of the Criminal Code to help us to categorize and tax the official, if we consider the number of people working in the public sector, this legislation can be applied in the interests of at least 100,000 people, if this is accepted by this House. It may be important that the criminal penalty for violent behaviour in the performance of public tasks by the official is included in the criminal code. This may constitute a type of protection aimed at harassing the official in a place or in a time that is not compatible with his official activities. I think it's obvious. Obviously, a person does not cease to be a practitioner of that profession outside of working hours, but when a person takes his or her opinion on his or her decision, work, or conduct according to the facts of the harassment, or acts according to his or her conduct, it is in the context of expressing his or her opinion. This bill, which already serves to supplement the amendment of the Fundamental Law in accordance with the Act on the Protection of Privacy, which is also before the House, provides for penalties for exceptional, abnormal or non-normal behaviour for officials. I call on this House to discuss the proposal and to adopt it in the light of the above points. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated, as has already been the case, that the description of the minority opinion drafted in the committee will be named later. I ask that one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion. [[On the sign of Gergely Harvesto:]] Gergely Harvester. Are you a member of the committee? [[Gergely Harvestó: I'm a member, yes.]] I'll give you the floor. A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority. First I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, in a time frame of up to eight minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-141	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 16 July 2018, the House Rule 62. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, and in view of the rules governing the exceptional procedure, T/856 discussed the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code. Bill No. 1. The summary report was adopted by 23 votes to five, with four abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us amends the Criminal Code on two important issues. We all have memories of the painful news reports about the 17 deaths of the Verona bus crash. Everyone was wondering how this tragedy could have happened. Recently, the report that the main cause of the accident was the unauthorized, unprofessional modification of the bus. In view of this, it is also our duty to ensure that we act with the strictest means against those who risk the lives and physical integrity of others by circumventing technical specifications and permits. I believe that the amendment before us can be an effective means of prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, The second important element of the amendment is the protection of privacy guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. Officials, such as the judges or the central office, the law enforcement body, the administrative body of the local government, or persons performing public authority or service, may I say Members of Parliament, shall be protected from having a minimum private sphere for their non-executive activities, which ensures that they can live a peaceful, non-harassible family life. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support the proposal before us in the light of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now giving the opportunity to our fellow Member, Gergely Arató, to present the minority opinion expressed in the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-17-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In the course of the debate, the minority opposition representatives of the Legislative Committee first challenged the urgency procedure in the manner in which the House adopted this proposal. It is quite obvious that, in the case of such a sensitive regulation, which concerns the Criminal Code, there is a serious problem with the fact that such a proposal is presented to Parliament without proper preparation, without social and professional debate, and that, also in Parliament, due to urgent proceedings, the possibilities and guarantees that would have allowed at least a substantive debate on the proposal, such as the drafting and submission of amendments, are hardly valid. We discussed very seriously in the committee whether the drafting of the bill in relation to harassment is appropriate, provides a proper background for law enforcement and an appropriate interpretation which would allow for a predictable and accessible interpretation of police practice, and then judicial practice. It is very difficult for us to accept the wording about the need to protect official persons in a place and in a time that is incompatible with official obligations. Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, we did not get an answer as to exactly what this wording means, what kind of general legal or even previous criminal code precedents or parallels the legislator relies on in this kind of rule. [[15.00]] There is no such wording, there is no way to determine exactly what this is about. This could cause serious problems with the application of the law. The opposition representatives proposed essentially two things in their proposals in the Legislative Committee. On the one hand, it was proposed that this regulation should be left out or, if it does not fall behind, should not extend to public officials, so that public actors should not be given priority protection, because this proposal also proposes to protect political public figures. On the other hand, regarding the safety of motor vehicles, there was a conceptual difference between the minority and the majority opinion that representatives of minorities wanted to regulate and share responsibility in a different way. Unfortunately, neither the rapporteur nor the majority of the committee showed openness to accept or at least seriously consider amendments from the opposition side. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-17-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent representatives have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-15-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-17-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law confirmed the protection of privacy. Accordingly, the Fundamental Law states that everyone has the right to respect his private and family life, his home, his contacts and his reputation. Freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly should not result in harming the private and family lives of others and their homes. The state therefore provides legal protection to the home in order to preserve its peace of mind. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Bertalan Judit Czunyiné, is considered entirely justified and necessary by the Fidesz Group. In our view, it is indeed necessary, in order to further strengthen the protection of privacy, that official persons should have the right to have a place and a time in their daily lives where they can rightly be expected not to be harassed because of their formal proceedings. Unfortunately, there are many examples of this in everyday life. The proposal, as my fellow Member said, regulates the harassment of officials as a more serious case of the crime. The amendment is not only in line with the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, but also with the principle that the criminal code still applies in a number of other facts, that the offence committed by the official should be subject to more serious consideration than the offences committed by another person, even if the act is not carried out under the procedure of the official. Such offences, in addition to the harm caused to a person, violate the smoothness and regularity of the official's proceedings. We therefore support the proposal by the Fidesz Group, which, in addition to strengthening the protection of privacy, makes the protection of the criminal law of officials more consistent and complete. In the other element of the bill, he would not remember the tragic accident of the Verona bus accident on 20 January 2017, in which students and teachers on their way home from school ski camp lost their lives. This terrible tragedy has shown that it is justified to amend and tighten the rules on passenger transport. You see that perfectly well, my fellow Member. We certainly agree, ladies and gentlemen, because we must agree that the need for this is a matter of a weight that cannot be negotiated and cannot simply be the subject of a debate. Participation in road transport with unauthorized passenger vehicles can lead to risks which are not only regulated by administrative means. The Fidesz Group also sees the need for a toolbox of criminal law to be used in the event of serious consequences arising from this type of activity. The proposal threatens to impose more serious penalties on a person who carries a vehicle carrying vulnerable persons, a school bus or a vehicle with special needs, such as a vehicle for the transport of elderly or sick persons with limited mobility. Furthermore, a person who is or has been ordered to make unauthorized conversion of certain vehicles is also ordered to be punished. In doing so, we express the fact that the licensing of these vehicles is not only an administrative burden, nor can it remain, nor can it be, but also has a strong public interest in it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in the interests of all of us. If appropriate, all of us, our children, families, every Hungarian family and every Hungarian child can be a guarantee of safety. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the bill. Please contribute to this with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-17-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-17-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Btk. Your proposed amendment reminds me of the operation of the Inquisition. The founders of the Inquisition may have wanted good in their own worldview, but the tools used to achieve it were wrong and brutal. And many times they were actually used for a different purpose. Well, your billing proposal is something like that. No one disputes that improving the operational safety of the motor vehicle park used in passenger transport services is an acceptable objective for everyone. Just as there is no question that privacy and privacy must be protected. The problem is that the real content of the legislative intention, which can be read from the legislative proposal before us, is not in a thank-you way with these noble goals. I could say that the purpose described in the amendment of the law is merely an excuse for your selfish and lying intentions. This is particularly serious when it comes to the fact that all of this is done on the pretext of a tragic car accident in Verona for the whole country. Let us look at the new criminal case that you have proposed, which is the driving of the illegally modified passenger vehicle. According to this, who drives a road vehicle or a special passenger vehicle, as defined in the Passenger Transport Services Act, which has been modified without a permit or otherwise than by a private road or public road, if no more serious crime is committed, is punishable by a prison sentence of one year due to a misdemeanor. This is more serious when the offence is carried out by a school bus or by a vehicle suitable for the transport of elderly or sick persons. In this case, imprisonment can extend for two years. It's a minor case if the unsub doesn't drive, but transforms or converts his vehicle. That's when a misdemeanor can be punished by detention. This proposal would therefore punish the person driving the vehicle more severely than the person who is changing the vehicle in a dangerous way, even though a bus driver does not necessarily have to be aware that the vehicle that he should be driving has been modified without permission by the employer. [[15.10]] Which means you'd be punishing the driver with a multi-annual prison who had nothing to do with remodeling the vehicle. And the owner or keeper who makes the dangerous remodel would be judged more lightly. This is simply unacceptable. This bill in this form is not about preventing accidents, nor is it about punishing possible violations. This, my fellow Members, is merely a bill of improbable scapegoats. But of course, why should we be surprised, since you have already spent more energy after the Bus Tragedy in Verona than to reassure and help unfortunate families. Zoltán Balog, then Minister, was most important at that time to tell him quickly that there was no compensation for the families of the deceased students because the tragedy was not at a school event. And now you've made a law amendment to us that would punish an innocent driver more than the man who's dangerously transforming the vehicle. I am convinced that by tightening up inspections and by performing random checks, more successful and lasting success could be achieved than by such a change of appearance. But there is also another element of this amendment that we need to deal with separately. Complementing a more serious, qualified form of harassment when harassment is carried out in a place or time incompatible with the official's activities. This crime, as you propose, would be punishable by two years, and if it were intended to instigate fear, it would be punishable by imprisonment of up to three years. It is not difficult to see behind the legislator's intention to eliminate the critical social protests about your activities and the publicity provided by the press. Interestingly, while Fidesz was in opposition, he had nothing against his followers protesting outside the House of pro-government politicians. At the time, there was nothing wrong with journalists taking pictures of politicians anywhere. In fact, you have repeatedly stated that these statements and reports are justified and appropriate. Compared to this, it is quite repulsive that now, when Fidesz is on the government and more and more people are dissatisfied with their activities, they suddenly remember that expressing their views in a place or in time that is incompatible with official activity, or merely reporting to the press, is considered harassment, and thus a crime. What constitutes a place or time incompatible with official activity is not clarified in the proposal before us. In fact, the wording is no longer correct because it is a blur of public figures and officials. A postman, a fireman, a policeman, a notary, who are official but not public figures, there's no question that they have the right to privacy. In their case, it is easy to determine the time and place outside the official activity. However, it is clear that this amendment is not about the postmen or the police, since they rarely appear and are less frequently in the press. This amending proposal concerns the privacy of public figures, you and your friends. It is about that if, in the future, János Lázár meets István Tiborcz in a café to discuss the details of the downtime of the nearest public procurement, they cannot be photographed or even talked about. This proposal is about making sure that no one disturbs Lurch Ripper on his yacht purchased with public money. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech: the intention of this legislative amendment is quite different from what is referred to in the wording of the objectives. After all, the proposal to silence criticism or press coverage against you has already been combined with the necessary amendment due to the tragic bus accident in Verona. This is a very transparent and depraved trick, because it was obviously done to ensure that if anyone objects to this, you can communicate: the person objects to the settlement of the situation after the bus crash in Verona. This is an extremely nasty and pitiful procedure on your part. Is nothing really sacred to you? ! Do you want to ensure your own political peace by linking him to the tragedy of a bus accident? If I look at you, I'll tell you that there are no words for these. Shame on you! We can't support the proposal.
u2018-07-17-148	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-149	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/856 amending Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code Legislative bill No 1 provides for sanctions in connection with the management of passenger vehicles illegally modified in the wake of the Verona bus accident, and also initiates the establishment of Btk. provisions on the harassment of official persons. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the month of January 2017, 17 people died due to the accident of the students of the Szinyei Merse Pál High School in Verona. This way, we bow our heads to innocent victims. God rest their soul. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, no parent would have let their child get on the bus if he knew he was gonna sit on a ticking bomb. However, none of the parents knew or even had reason to believe that the bus complied with all the legal requirements. Unfortunately, they were wrong. The 17 innocent victims of the car accident in Verona, therefore, clearly points out that unauthorized passenger vehicles can have such serious consequences for road transport that it is necessary to examine the applicability of criminal law against such acts. With this amendment, our fellow Member, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, wanted to express the fact that the licensing of the conversion of passenger vehicles is not just an administrative burden, but its performance must be a strong public interest, and its failure to comply with criminal law must be sanctioned. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the bill, who drives a road vehicle or a special passenger vehicle, as defined in the Passenger Transport Services Act, which has been modified without authorisation or otherwise than by private road or public traffic, if no more serious crime is committed, shall be punishable by imprisonment of up to one year. The penalty shall be two years of imprisonment if the offence is committed by means of a road vehicle intended for the transport of elderly or sick persons, with a school bus or special need, in particular in their movements. And anyone who does or does such a transformation without permission will also be punished by detention. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, what is this penalty for losing lives? ! Parliament's adoption of the bill for the amendment of the Btk. will hopefully have the result that no more such tragedies will occur. In connection with the tragedy in Verona, the investigation is ongoing on suspicion of reckless endangerment in the occupation of a deadly mass disaster. Ladies and Gentlemen, Yesterday, our fellow Member, Bertalan Czunyi, submitted to the Btk. a proposal for an amendment to the bill which also initiates the establishment of Btk. provisions on the harassment of officials. [[15.20]] According to the bill, those who commit harassment in a place or time incompatible with the official's activities would be punishable by imprisonment of up to three years in two or more cases. The seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law has strengthened the protection of privacy, so the right to have a place and a time in their daily lives, or where they can rightly be expected not to be harassed by official proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/856. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-17-151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, With regard to the proposal before us, the most important question or one of the important questions is why this matter is so urgent, why this House should accept in such a static procedure, Monday to Friday, why the majority did not take the time to have a meaningful parliamentary work here. This is also worth considering because the two issues proposed in the bill are one that deserves to be dealt with in substance and to try to offer good solutions, if that is what the intention is. According to the Democratic Coalition, this procedure is not acceptable, because we have created, more precisely, the rules of the parliamentary procedure, and the tradition of what a parliamentary debate looks like, so that we can have the best possible laws. It is regrettable that you do not think this is important, but think that Parliament is a law factory where an order is placed on top and you want to obtain the finished product as quickly as possible. This bill is essentially two legislative proposals. One of the regulations deals with liability for illegally modified vehicles in connection with the bus accident in Verona. There is no question that there is a need for regulation here, not only in this case, but also in other cases, which have not, fortunately, ended in tragedy, show that there is insufficient order in this area. Of course, it is possible that there really is a need for a new criminal instrument here, or it would be sufficient to enforce the existing rules, but it can certainly be said and we think that it is in itself that the determination of liability is a clearer, important and important objective to be supported. So we are not fundamentally opposed to this regulation. However, one question arises, namely, that we really properly determine the person responsible. What do I mean? The bus driver, the driver of the bus in these cases, is an employee, in most cases an employee who is extremely vulnerable to his own bosses. Therefore, the big question is whether it is justified that a large part of the criminal liability is passed on to him, not to the person who orders this conversion and then puts the driver on this bus. Once again, the responsibility of the driver cannot be disputed here, but the big question is to establish the proportions of liability in this case. We're not sure about that. Once again, I can say that if there had been or had been time to work on this bill in substance, we might have found a better, luckier solution. The second half of the bill, the other part, is much more problematic. What's this about? Indeed, my fellow Members have said precisely that they wish to give priority protection to a group, namely to official persons, within the legal facts of harassment which otherwise exist. They argue that there is another such protection for official persons, but it is quite clear what it refers to. That if an official is assaulted or otherwise committed in connection with his official activity in this capacity, he should be given special protection in this case. It's a logical and proportionate regulation, it says that if you're officially acting on behalf of the state, and in this context you're being offended, then it's justified that you have special protection. But what is this about? This is about the fact that, outside of working hours, in a time that is incompatible with his official activities, whatever this means is harassing the person. You claim that you want to protect officials from being harassed because of their official quality outside their official activities. However, this is not included in the bill. This is not included in the facts, there is no rule in it that says that there is a priority protection if they are being harassed outside official time. In addition, dear fellow Members, let us face it, there is a rule in which the person concerned is concerned with this priority protection, and one who is committing a misdemeanor cannot be informed, because any surprise, but a Member of Parliament in his bathing suit looks exactly like a non-member of Parliament. As a result, the citizen cannot know that if he is harassing someone, he is doing this to an official person, since his official quality is not visible. I'll give you another example, because harassment requires a regularity. If someone's neighbor regularly harasses because he doesn't like the barking of the dog and because of that he keeps throwing dog poop over, I'm sorry to give you such an example, it may be exhausting this crime, but he doesn't necessarily know about his neighbor that he's an official or unofficial person. I'm sorry to put it a little paradistically, but it is quite obvious that with this regulation they are creating a situation where they give priority protection to official persons that it is not clear that this is due to their official personal quality. Ladies and gentlemen, So the problem is not that they also want to protect the privacy of officials. The privacy of officials deserves protection as well as the protection of anyone else's privacy. The point is that just because someone is an official, they want to provide him with special protection. But why should an official be entitled if he doesn't act as an official, a priority protection? Why is your personal life more important to a Member of Parliament, a representative of the local government, not to a god, to a secretary of state, than to a bus driver, since we mentioned this example, a pizza delivery man or a factory worker? Why is the privacy of officials more important than the privacy of any other citizen? Those who dispute this bill on the opposition side do not wish to have a private life for officials or even for political public figures. But we want equality of rights to be the same and the same protection as anyone else in this country. This is also ensured by the current legislation, since harassment is still a crime, whether it is an official person or an unofficial person. I also have to tell you that we have suspicions. Because if you really had regard to the official persons whom you would so much like to refer to, a relatively wide range of civil servants and civil servants and other public servants, you would have supported the amendment that came from the opposition, the Dialogue, and which would have taken political public figures out of this regulation and kept them only for the other public servants. Then we would believe you that you are indeed concerned about the privacy of officials, educators or postmen. But neither the rapporteur supported this, nor the committee supported it, and we quickly turned to the fact that the pro-government speakers spoke about the protection of the privacy of Members of Parliament. Therefore, we are living with the strong suspicion that this proposal is most of all about your concern that citizens express their displeasure. They are concerned that journalists who are not allowed into Parliament, or citizens who are not allowed to ask questions in the forum, may find you on the phone or in person outside your official activities, and are looking for ways to defend themselves against unwanted press calls and unwanted citizens' requests that do not please you. [[15.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, So the problem isn't that you're protecting privacy, the problem is that you want to protect yourself, you don't want to face the press, you don't want to face the citizens. They'd like to create another rubber rule to threaten those who dare speak to you. It's not the Privacy Act, it's an extended Violation Act, which protects you from criticism, from criticism by even addressing you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-07-17-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, as we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see an application, and there are speeches to be made by Members. Member Bence Tordai of the Dialogue Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-153	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Generally speaking, it is a despicable procedure to push laws through Parliament with such exceptional urgency, but we have been accustomed to it for the past eight years. But it is especially cowardly and cynical to hide behind such a tragedy the codification of their own interests as they do in this case. The memory of the victims of the Bus Tragedy in Verona is mocked by the fact that the protection of lex fidesz MEPs and Fidesz members of government has been packed in this Btk. amendment. I would not mention what is in the first paragraph, let us get to the point, let it be clear to everyone that this law was so urgent because, now that the parliamentary session is over, now that a lot of laws have been passed, including budgets, which violate the interests of many people, which cause a legal disadvantage or a financial disadvantage to millions, and now, when they have to go out among the people, because they cannot live exclusively among their bodyguards or between the four walls of their palaces, when they have to go out among the people at times in a time of office or not in a manner related to their official activities, then citizens will certainly address you with unsearched words. Because if you pursue such a skinny, anti-popular policy, then millions of people will resent it and turn to you, depending on each one's temper, with contempt, with silent contempt, or with burning hatred. Half the country doesn't like you more than you do, and you'd hate it right the hell out of here. The thing is, there's still protection for the officials. They are protected from harassment as much as any Hungarian citizen. Now what you're doing is confirming the deterrent intent, stressing that you're placing the officials in the area of particularly protected persons, and once again acting cowardly as if this law was protecting the privacy of random ministry workers, policemen or firefighters. This, of course, only protects the interests of government members and Fidesz representatives. The Dialogue had an amendment that, if you were a bit serious about this hypocritical concern, you would have supported yesterday in the Legislative Committee to exclude from the exceptions, so you should continue to be judged in the same way as any other elected officials or members of the government. But you guys turned it down, obviously that's what this is all about, protecting your own ass. What is particularly frustrating in this proposal is that so far three social groups have been protected from harassment by the criminal code, spouses and ex-wives, partners and ex-partners, persons under education, supervision, care, treatment, or persons subject to power or influence have been subject to more severe punishment. And now you're putting the officials in this line, especially the Fidesz politicians. This means that instead of, say, fighting domestic violence with such insanity, they are rightly concerned about their own safety, I add. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Are you threatening me?]] No, that's what I'm saying, other people obviously threaten you. The author also said that cases of harassment have increased. And by the way, since I know that we are also receiving messages of this content, which can be considered threatening, as opposition representatives, obviously, who is on the government gets a lot more of these messages. So they have a spectacular concern for their own safety. I, too, am concerned about your safety, and make no mistake, the Dialogue does not, of course, support any violence, we reject all forms of violence, verbal aggression. At the same time, the fact that you are not fighting domestic violence, but the harassment of politicians is telling. If I may have a comment here on the point (a) of paragraph 3 of Paragraph 222, it would be good if more serious sanctions were imposed on the forms of violence within the family and against women. It would be good to put such a particular concern to prevent this, to support and to protect the victims. After seven years, it would be good to finally ratify the Istanbul Convention in Hungary, and it would be good to have laws in Hungary four years after its entry into force that will enable an effective fight against domestic violence and violence against women. But, no, it is not important to you, it is not important to the blind comandor Fidesz, and it seems that even here, my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is that the Fidesz decision-makers, elected representatives and members of the government are safer, if this Btk threat can keep you safe. I think this whole bill is a disgrace. It would be best for them to withdraw and reflect on the need to pursue a policy that does not provoke people, but serves voters. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-154	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-17-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to comment on a few mistakes, without the need for completeness. It was explained why it was brought before this House in an exceptional procedure. We all know that the incident in Verona has just been established by the fact that the transformation caused the accident itself. Every day, every moment we delay here, in legislation, by sanctioning such interventions and exposing children, we expose those who travel on buses or other vehicles to this danger, to our own conscience. If you don't feel that way, I'll accept it, but accept that the majority of the government is led by this intention. It is clear that the other part of the amendment, which concerns the harassment of officials, has recently been accepted by Parliament, for example, as a condition that public actors should have the same protection as other persons if they are outside the role they are otherwise fulfilling. At the same time, we have seen violent crimes against officials in the context of official work. This means about a hundred thousand masses in Hungary, by the way. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] If you ask for a voice, we can talk about it, and then I will answer it. So it's practically not individual cases and it's not exceptional solutions. We have the opportunity to remedy this in front of this House. What some speakers had, as if we were threatening poor stalkers, was what the government wanted to create. I think harassment is a kind of human activity that leans towards that kind of violence. I was very pleased that my fellow Member Bence Tordai finally stated that they did not support violence either, although some of his speeches sometimes tend to lean towards anarchism, but it seems to mean anarchy without violence, and then I will reinterpret this part of things. Basically, the elements of the facts are that if you do not know, you will punish the poor because you have committed harassment against an official; you can do it if you know otherwise that you are an official. Of course, I do not want to give a criminal law course to anyone in my speech today, but I would ask you that there are very excellent experts in every faction, try to discuss these legislative proposals with them first. I understand that, of course, there is a political side to this, and there is a communication side that needs to be carried through, but at least do not start the basic parts of criminal law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.40]]
u2018-07-17-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group. I'll wait for him to put it on... he put it on, thank you very much. Congresswoman, please.
u2018-07-17-157	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] I'm gonna get into his last sentence, just like this for the first time. Experts can be exposed to material that radiates some kind of expertise. This bill is all material that cannot be considered professionally. I'm about to explain why. You will see that I do not wish to offend you, but those who are preparing these legislative proposals, because I am sure of one thing: neither you, the rapporteur, nor the pro-government speakers were sitting at the table where this work was put together. I know that I have been insulted from week to week by saying this, because that conclusion can be drawn from almost every bill, but I have already realized in the last two and a half months that it is most likely that you sitting here as a representative have nothing to do with the materials you are submitting to this House. I cannot imagine that Minister of State Pál Völner or Mrs Bertalan Czunyié, representing Judit Czunyi, has ever been involved in the preparation of legislation where the groundwork, the groundwork to be able to develop a situation at all, is less punished than those who suffer the situation. What do I mean? This amendment to the Btk. does not, in relation to the driving of illegally modified passenger vehicles, take the view that it is committed by someone, i.e. that it is transformed. That's not what you're getting at. You're starting to think that someone who drives this kind of thing. My apologies, the groundwork in a law, if I'm going to regulate that someone doesn't do this without impunity, that first I'm going to write down that you're a crappy criminal and I'm not punishing you with detention, but with a minimum of three or five years in prison or a life sentence who's going to do that by transforming people's vehicles, first I'm going to state the facts, please. That's the first step, that's the origo, because if that doesn't happen, you can't drive that bus or that vehicle. My apologies, the fundamental principle of the whole system of legislation is that I always define the starting point, I define the basic element! What's the basic element? The basic principle is that if such a crime can be committed by humans, it should be punished. But no, he starts by driving such a vehicle at most in the second, third, or so forth! With all due respect, please don't tell me that anyone who commits such a misdemeanor to transform such a device without permission would want to punish him with detention, the person who creates the situation himself, and who doesn't even know if he knows if the vehicle that will be driving is going to suffer this transformation, and the person who is going to be imprisoned! I dare not think, Mr Secretary, that the reason for this may be that the manager and owner of the bus accident in Verona has been winning public procurement ever since this terrible tragedy occurred. [[Moray in the benches of the governing parties.]] I can't even imagine that the reason for this principle of regulation, and it took a year and a half to put forward such a proposal here at all, because the discussions took place so long that it didn't have such a very serious impact on people who were badly active, but who might be connected to the government in some way. So I say, please, until such time as a law, such legislation, after such a truly terrible, serious accident, I say, a year and a half, then let us at least do so so that the citizens and, by the way, the family members who are suffering can see that, when such a proposal is tabled, the first sentence should be to punish the person who does it; whoever does the transformation, I will punish first. And then, of course, the driver comes along, as long as he knows. And then I would return to our dialogue two months ago, when, in another bill, specifically, when I was talking about the supporters of migration, that while in criminal law the prosecution had to prove that a driver's consciousness had been taken over by the fact that the vehicle had been transformed, and perhaps the documents with which he was seated in the bus had already been recorded and validated for the legality of the conversion, how will the prosecutor's office prove it, but this is an additional factor. The point is, please, if you thought, a year and a half after the tragedy, that there were no facts in the criminal code that could otherwise be drawn upon, or which, by the way, would have included, at least you would have done so to punish the monster who did this and then the driver. And then we didn't talk about, Mr. Secretary, what about the rules of the Labour Code. In the Labour Code, the worker has a limited responsibility, since he is acting under and above the authority of the worker, and how he, as an employee, should or can be controlled by his employer, who instructs him to get in that bus. We can't even discuss this yet, because otherwise we would need at least a framework for a conference, and we would have to sit there with highly qualified criminal lawyers to discuss it. But the point of this is that this legislation could not have been tabled, because it is not suitable for what it was intended for. And I'll ask you one more important question here. Isn't there a passage in our criminal code that included this element of fact at all? Do you really say that in Hungarian criminal financial law, there is no such thing as punishing the mischief committed during the bus accident in Verona? Of course it is. ! There he is, please, the road endangerment. Part of the transport rule system is that the vehicle must be technically fit when it is started, and practically until the word "aggression" and not the word "accident" that assumes the result is included, only the endangerment is included, i.e. abstractly any action, behaviour that may be capable of causing an emergency, the fact of the road endangerment involves this behaviour when the vehicles are converted. So it is not true that there is no such rule in our criminal law! Just what's the point of all this right now? That now I'm making a political performance for the people that I'm so, so responsible that I'm writing another fact. Even the great luck, Mr. Secretary of State, is that at least the half sentence is that if a more serious crime is not carried out, it will be done. This is at least suitable for something, because then road endangerment, as you propose, is more serious, and this rule does not really apply. Therefore, it would be possible to bring small-colored ones here from the case-law to see how the judges will act in the face of this. We've tabled an amendment. Why did we file for you? Well, hold on a second. If the representative of KDNP is giving such a wonderful speech about why they are supporting this law, I apologize for the fact that he should not be sanctioned for a misdemeanor by one year or two years if he is qualified. Why isn't that a crime? Why is it not a crime that someone, please, in a device used to transport tens of people, even for a long journey, should not touch it in such a way as to endanger the safety of that device. I apologize. You have now told me how responsible the government is, because you have now learned why the tragedy brought about by the accident occurred in part, because the accident itself did not happen because of this, it was a mechanical fault, but because the bus was burned out. So what you're saying is, even to this day, we're speaking in mourning and mourning in this Parliament for a reason, do you like to say to the parents that anyone who does something like this, that he's changed the bus, that he's got to be locked up? [[15.50]] It would've been easier to put the word "no shit" on it, but seriously. Why don't you think about why you like spending millions of forints on the job we're here for, why you're doing this administration, we're spending time, hours, and then you're like, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, It's too bad you didn't want to write about what I know, lifelong cocktails, because it would be about the same, or maybe even during detention, we'll bring in girls of pleasure to help them deal with their hide-and-sort. This is a joke! Anyone who does this should be a felony with a multi-annual prison sentence. And, yes, please, when you say that, but the driver who knows that this happened, and yet gets in the car, and yet he does, and yet he breaks these rules by becoming quasi-accomplice, surely an accomplice, proven to be an accomplice to the converter, then, yes, it should be punished at least to this extent. And then I didn't even talk about paragraph 2 because it highlights the school bus and then the different conditions. Why does it have to be this one or that one? Everywhere more people are transported, it should be punished more severely, because there is no definition of the number of personal vehicles in the base case, only that it is a vehicle. Yes, please, when a truly tens of people event is happening, and this has been done, then, of course, it should be a qualifying circumstance, but you do not need to enter such specialties. It could have been beautifully defined to cover the school bus, of course. Anyway, I just want to say that the bus crash in Verona wasn't a school bus, because it's the bus used to transport kids back and forth every day, that's the school bus. The bus with which there was an accident took the children on a trip may be an organized tourist bus or an organized tourist bus carrying children, but that's not a school bus, please. So it would still be nice to put the terms in place, because if I were a judge, I'd be interested to know how you felt about that. The Criminal Code is 234. In its section on road safety, what has happened here is perfectly included. This, if judged in Hungary, would have enabled the Hungarian judges to judge it and punish it more severely than is proposed. So at the moment, if the legal consequences were to be carried out in Hungary, you would have wanted to punish him more lightly than the basic criminal code, so that should have been considered. I'm changing because time is really going, and I guess everyone wants to go home, this masterpiece, this second part. Your ideological leader István Bibó has been a great, emblematic role model for the last eight years, because he has also told a few truths, and he said that being a Democrat means, above all, not to be afraid. So I think that today no pro-government politician in Hungary has any reason to be afraid. Fear is for someone who does things and then has to be afraid of the people. In Hungary, the people's power is declared in the Fundamental Law, and in Hungary the people have the right to express their opinion if something does not please them. Of course, the framework for this is narrowed down by the fact that neither physical nor verbal unlawful conduct can be done with impunity in any expression of opinion, this is not a question, but the limit is much further than this legislation suggests. But let me ask you one more question, just like the last one. Isn't there any substantive law in Hungary that doesn't include the behaviors listed in this? Against an official, there has been a legal consequence of violent situations, harassment has been a legal object protected by law. So this legislation says nothing, but nothing more than what is already available, and on the basis of which, indeed, if someone does commit these conducts that violate privacy, it would be possible to have legal consequences under the current rules. This is basically all about the fear of a narrow political circle, and it aims to ensure that, if possible, the Prime Minister's environment is not approached by people, even by exercising freedom of expression. But I'd like to ask you one more thing: political and state leadership, isn't that 24-hour service? I'm just a simple congressman, but for me, it's a 24-hour service. This is 24-hour duty! We are engaged in one service, we are all contracted to serve, and taxpayers reward the top leaders of the state with a very generous remuneration. This is a service that must be at the disposal of the people. By the way, you must like to read social media, which is also expected of Members to be at the disposal of citizens, representing them in a way of life. Besides, I can't imagine how it's going to be explained that it's in a place or time that's not compatible with its official activities. Now, how are you going to interpret that? So when, for example, someone leaves Parliament, goes home, is it a compatible place or not? Especially in the light of the fact that the court has just stated that going back and forth to work is a matter of working time. So is that still the time of the Prime Minister or the head of state when he goes home from work or is he on his way there? Or he's going to open an exhibition, and let's say, on the way to the exhibition, one of his children might join up to discuss why he got a "D" yesterday. So when you leave Parliament for an exhibition, it's an official road, but because the child is getting into the car and discussing yesterday's 2nd result, isn't that a compatible goal? And by the way, how does anyone know that from the outside? So how can a citizen judge that when he gives his opinion, perhaps he whistles at the Prime Minister out loud, it's the right time and place? But really, seriously, it's a matter of interpretation, it's going to be a matter of case law, and I have to say, I can already see that if such criminal cases start, then they will be very cleverly defended by how I would have known that this was a good time or a good time, because, for example, it might be 7:00 p.m. this evening, and the Prime Minister says that he finished his term of office at 4:00 that day, but I apologize, and yesterday he went to a reception at 7:30 p.m. and I thought that if he was an official last night, and he was in his term of office, and he wasn't inappropriate, that's still true. Have you considered that, in principle, you are preparing the legislation for the case law, and there will be people, and not a few who need to be interpreted and applied? And we can already see from this that there will be countless decisions, countless interpretations, and that there will be virtually another confusion that will simply not be resolved. I don't even want to talk about what my fellow opposition Members have been talking about here, because I myself think that if it hadn't been for the Prime Minister and his environment to submit this legislative proposal, they could have simply withdrawn the public figure from it, because I also think that they didn't want the guardian's administrator and the post-officer and not the construction department employee to be pushed into this place, but actually the representative of the Hungarian government or its representatives, who have often been criticized for reasons in recent years, and indeed, when citizens saw that their written criticisms were not even appreciated, they really tried to put their views into this place in person, and, of course, to put legal pressure on them. But they did not create this situation, and those who do not represent the people according to the interests of society, who make promises in campaigns and then do not act in the spirit of governance. I know one thing, I will never be afraid now or in the future, so I do not need such legislation, and I do not think there are many people in this room, and I think that you, too, Fidesz Members, are not afraid, neither are we. We are not afraid because we are not doing something that we should be afraid of, and that is why we should be negotiating a bill submitted to Parliament in this kind of emergency procedure. [[16.00]] So I ask with great respect that, on the basis of the legal arguments, the absolutely unjustified proposal, both in time and in space and in content, should be recast and reconcile with the content of the legislation in force, because there is a perfect substantive right in place for both living conditions, and I simply do not understand why they thought that the existing legislation would be inappropriate to deal with such problems. I would like to emphasise that, because I do not want the pro-government press to make a sound of this, and that is that all the consequences of the horror of the victims of the Verona bus accident have to come to pass, the representatives of the Hungarian State must do everything to ensure that the consequences of this act are sufficiently proportionate and serious to those who have committed it, but that this instrument, which has been presented to the House, is not appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to KDNP's representative, Imre Vejkey, and give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-07-17-159	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The statement by our fellow Members and, in particular, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, has led me to react briefly to what has been said here. We need to clarify what we are talking about in relation to this bill: the Criminal Code. The basic objective of the Criminal Code is prevention, prevention, which means that we create legal facts so that people can think about the merit of showing certain attitudes that are dangerous to society, or are not worth it, because what is dangerous to society is a certain sanction, a so-called legal disadvantage. The things we consider to be more serious in the face of the threat to society are clearly subject to a more serious legal disadvantage. Since it is a legal element of criminal law, it is also obvious that criminal law is not a static system, but a living system. It's always based on the law. Then, when we see a case of law and then amend it, after the act is committed, I am not talking about the declaration of judgment, but I am talking about Btk. after the act has been committed, then that criminal act does not cover the act previously committed. So what we are trying to do is not to make the unsub who, unfortunately, killed these 17 innocent victims, for whom we have bowed our heads, but rather to prevent these and similar cases in a preventive way for the future. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-160	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes.
u2018-07-17-161	Thank you very much. President Vejkey's comment gives me the opportunity to ask a question that will help us understand the purpose of the bill. Can you tell me whether it was a congressman or a secretary of state or a congresswoman, how many cases of harassment were there, because it was a crime, and it didn't involve officials, where it came up that it had something to do with the official identity of the person? I suppose that would help us decide that they want to solve a real social problem. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-162	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. Yes, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, two minutes.
u2018-07-17-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I find it amazing, even though I am a very patient man, listening to the views of some of my opposition fellow Members. For example, Andrea Varga-Damm said things about children injured in the bus accident in Verona, for example, which I hope they will not listen to. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Comprehension, Colleague, Comprehension!]] And as far as the other topic is concerned, the subject of harassment, I am very sorry, so you take it as a harassment when, if you are on the bus at all, for 0-24 hours, I regularly take the bus, I take the metro and ask kindly an old lady or a mama how exactly to interpret something, where to go, I do not take it as a harassment. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Text understanding, I'm sorry, Congresswoman.]] You just said that in 0-24 hours, if we go home, we're going to arrest the people who address us. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] If you think this is harassment, it's very unfortunate. I think that no one thinks that the category of harassment is that if a mother asks how much she will have, let's say, her family tax relief, because next year it will be 40,000 forints a month for the two children. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Watch my speech in the video!]] This isn't harassment. We don't take it that way. And by the way, harassment, you should know that very well, as a criminal case, is in and regulated in the Btk., and this is not about a citizen asking something to another person, but about very serious and different attitudes. Thank you very much for the word and attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, DK.
u2018-07-17-165	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Annex XV is amended as follows: I am a representative of the district, and we had four of our men on that bus to Verona, and two brothers stayed there forever, and the two parents were able to give their own children finality about six months later because they were burned. These people have not yet received a single penny of compensation. That's out of the question. So the 17 victims, if all of them have not received any compensation after a year and a half, have somehow not been mentioned here, even though this exceptional procedure of citing this bill, I think that if we have started from here, from the case in Verona, and then we end up at the harassment, the grievances in Verona are very big. They came home after six months, survived this burn from the parents and the XV. district government paid the electricity bill, the gas bill, something else, because they would have concluded the utility services in the house, because they couldn't come home. So that's what we should be paying attention to when we say what we did to the victims of the car crash in Verona. I appointed a man who dealt with the affairs of this family, and we visited them several times, despite the fact that we did not know the family until then that they lived in this district, and we did not know that they were such prominent athletes, because two athletes lost their lives. That's one of the questions. The other is this harassment. There is another aspect of this harassment, and that is why I asked for the floor when we, citizens, are being harassed using their rights. So we're being harassed by the public sector inspector, harassed by the field guard, harassed by almost everyone, so we, citizens, can be harassed. The M3 is the 15th. district through the airport is the shortest route and the XV. in the district, this is the transport of protected persons when travelling and arriving. It's the 15th. The district sees it as a harassment, every citizen, that we are the road from which you can go to the airport in 18 minutes or 16 minutes. They close everything, underpass, overpass and something else, and this happens several times a week, not to mention when we were EU Presidents for a half year, people of different rank came and went, and for a half a year it was almost impossible to travel. What happens is that in the streets, under the gardens, we become a tour, and the whole M3 is guided by the XV. district, Pestújhely and the cancer palace side, on each side, and it's also a harassment. We're harassing citizens because they're protecting protected people. [[16.10]] When, in such exceptional proceedings, I do not know who has been consulted without consulting, we bring in such an important law without a committee hearing, I think that we should get a little carried away, because there was a pretty tough give-and-take here. This year and a half, if we had referred to Verona, would have been enough to allow the committees to negotiate this on a number of occasions, and perhaps this bill would have been rewritten by the potentates of another committee and arrived here in a different way. But now, in an exceptional procedure, we're gonna push it over quickly, and tomorrow we're gonna vote on it, and we're gonna turn something into a law. I think that this will be followed again by another exceptional procedural law, which is almost the other leg, I think. This bill before us, I believe, including the extreme pain and identification of the Veronas, must not and cannot be supported in this original form. It's not about what you've come up with here. Thank you.
u2018-07-17-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund.
u2018-07-17-167	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to Mr Mayor's speech, Balázs Vígh, whom he mentioned, was also on the bus, was the UTE hockey player and we cherished his memory with grace; not only now, but also earlier, we knew the family and him. Since then, UTE-Ferencváros hockey matches have always cherished his memory from time to time, as we always collect for the benefit of the family during such hockey matches. I think it's an important case to cherish the memory of the victims. This legislation also aims to ensure that this does not happen again, as our fellow Member said on behalf of the KDNP. However, if I go through previous opposition speeches here, I see a lot of contradictions. On the one hand, a recurring argument is why now, why so quickly, why this must be done in such an extraordinary procedure; others say: [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Why not sooner. So the timing is too soon, too late. It has just come up, as Mr Secretary of State has said, this is the case in the course of the investigation, and this must also be addressed by the law, so as not to happen again. Looking at the state of the road threat doesn't give a clear answer to this situation. So, if we look at the facts there, it is not certain that the facts can be applied to the situation where someone is driving or transforming a illegally modified passenger vehicle. This fact makes it clear that such a situation will never happen again. Indeed, life is complicated, and this is a specific situation to be reacted to, and this fact clearly addresses this situation, which has led to a terrible disaster. It is our responsibility to accept it as quickly as possible. This is a matter of criminal law, a few sentences, everyone has the opportunity to respond to it, even to state their position. It's not about what we heard here, about the Inquisition, about what we heard on the part of the MSZP and about the Static process, and Chernobyl was summoned yesterday, so we hear all these adjectives that you look around and say, "Oh, my God, where is he?" He doesn't really understand the situation, what the opposition wants to throw at us with these adjectives. Even more so, it has been said that they are practically ashamed of themselves and have sent us to a warmer climate, perhaps that is what Mrs Gurmai Zita has said here on behalf of the MSZP. So, overall, I think this situation is responding to a specific situation. A terrible tragedy has beenfallen the entire nation, this fact settles this situation, so that it will never happen again, and if someone does such a thing, then he should be punished. On the other hand, harassment is not the common language harassment of calling someone in or going with the camera. This is also used by liberal organs to chase MEPs for virtually a hundred meters and try to lure them into a way, but also to clearly address the facts of harassment by law. So harassment isn't a comment, one more time, or that on the way home from an exhibition, I don't know, some kind of comment, but clearly the Btk. he explains that in order to intimidate others, to intervene in others' private lives or in their daily lives, he regularly disturbs them. So this is a complex series of events, and all the elements of this must be realized, and if this happens, the person to whom it is committed must be protected, whether it is an official person or someone else. Yeah, well, it's not right for someone to go home, say, a notary, and then be harassed at night, and then he doesn't have that type of protection. This is what this legislation is trying to do with this fact, with this regulation. We have to go out with the people, here several opposition representatives have said that they do not love us, and the people want to fight us, we have almost heard this vision. We have to look at the results of the interim elections on Sunday, I think that the Hungarian people have given a very clear answer in the various settlements of the country as to who they support their policies; who they are sympathetic to; who they believe they are; who they want to entrust to either the fate of the country or the fate of a settlement. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] and even in this sense, the results of the local government express very precisely how the people think about the Fidesz-KDNP government and the governance of recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-168	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2018-07-17-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Here were some expressions that unfortunately did not come from the correct interpretation of my words. I would just like to say to the pro-government Member before me that the problem is not that it is early or late or fast or slow, but that if this tragedy happened a year and a half ago, one: why is there not at least one professional consultation before the proposal is tabled? Because this legislation, whether you like it or not, and I don't care who's offended, is not a legislative quality, it's not an expert's work, but we're used to it, which is why I said that the lawyers present must not have sat at the table where it was made. Secondly, if, as you said, my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, whom I have very much respect and respect, I have known for thirty years that it serves prevention, then the problem is that a detention law will not prevent a single bus converter from doing this. If I really want to punish these people, then I am not putting such a humiliating and quality legal consequence in this proposal. Then I will punish you for several years and declare it a crime. That is why I have said quite firmly that, if you wish to punish these acts by introducing a new reality in the future, at least respect society by having a serious legal consequence. That's not a serious consequence. I would like to say to the point made by the congresswoman that she probably did not understand my words; we are in the 24-hour service, yes, we are always who the Members of Parliament and the state leaders are. Since there is not enough specific definition in this place of law when the stalker can see that it is in an incompatible place and in time, I said that there will be a problem with it in the interpretation of law and in the case law. So I wasn't talking about the person who calls me on the bus, on the tram, whether I'm a stalker or not, because I was just talking about me being approached by anyone anywhere, and I'm never gonna consider it harassment, either, because we're hired to address us. That's what we do. That's what taxpayers pay us for. So just to clarify, in this proposal... and I therefore suggest that you reconsider, so that you do not make it difficult for the case law to be achieved by the judges on various grounds of inadequacy that they will not apply these legal elements and conditions simply because of their incomprehensibleness and intransparency to practice. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-170	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. [[16.20]] I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Judit Bertalan, Mrs Czunyi.
u2018-07-17-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, in response to the debate on what is in the bill, here in the harassment, both the common language interpretation and the interpretation of tabloids and all kinds of interpretations occur, I would read it only for the sake of loyalty and warranty, although my fellow Member, Mr Sigismund Barna, did read the basic statement of harassment, but it is indeed a complex norm that should be interpreted differently and interpreted overall. In particular, I drew attention to the fact that there is no change in the basic position and the system of the fundamental position, the dogmatical system, which is why I recommend that you at least take note of those involved in this debate. Thus, according to the rules of the Criminal Code in force, harassment: a person who, in order to intimidate others or to act arbitraryly in another's private life or in his everyday life, regularly and permanently disturbs him, if no more serious crime is committed, is punished for a year for a misdemeanor. Second paragraph: if you threaten to commit a criminal offence against another person or someone else with regard to him or his relative for the purpose of inciting fear, or to make it appear that there will be an event that harms or directly endangers another person's life, physical integrity or health. I think, and from here on out, it's the stage where a more serious case is the strict punishment for harassment of officials. I would not even like to talk about this in detail here, because I say that we have brought here the elements of harassment which are common language and which are already going into tabloid interpretation, so it is certainly worth considering in a sensible debate that we consider harassment as an expression which I say to my fellow Member in Torda clearly under the title of freedom of expression, whether it is the right of assembly or the regulation on expression. It is depraved and, to say the deliberate deception of this otherwise criminal standard, I obviously understand that the acquisition of political benefit in this difficult situation allows you to use any means of communication, but if I recall correctly, fellow Members, and I say this perhaps to all speakers, neither among the national exposé nor among the leading speakers of the governing parties, it was not to use the memory of the victims of Verona as a memento or, by the way, as a memento for this legislative amendment. In fact, Mr. Secretary of State clearly said that the expert studies have just demonstrated clearly that the extra tank of sufnituning, which I said yesterday, caused the kind of tragedy that could have been prevented by the fact that, in the course of the inspections, we are not talking about the application of other laws on transport, why it is so narrow and why the bill says so. I think that we have not said it for a minute, and we do not think so, but, in terms of prevention, it is very important that it is not in such a way that it is not possible for a vehicle to be able to go through a check or to carry children, patients and elderly people on the road. I would argue with it both in labour law and in other responsibilities, and I think that those who acquire a licence for the carriage of persons and those who work for the carriage of persons are subject to increased occupational rules when they are employed. To claim that if you refuel twice as much in an Iks capacity tank, you obviously know that it doesn't go alongside normal technical equipment. Not hurt or translated, what my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm said, but it is obviously a more nuanced question here, too, rather than saying that he is on the bus and does not know that he is transformed, who is in the occupation, and is indeed so, so there is a fact that sort of settles this issue in part, but does not settle it in its entirety and completely. That is why I have proposed that this be done in this way with the sanction of the criminal law in the area of prevention, so let us also intervene with the power of criminal law and with the instrument of criminal sanctions. What Zita Gurmai said, I would only respond to the fact that if she had meant what she had added to any bill in the debate for one minute, she would have sat through the debate and listened to any questions or accusations she might have had or to the speaker's lecture and most importantly to the press. I think that I do not want to go deeper into his contribution, but I think that the matter deserved to sit through the debate, not the nationalist, not the government and not the Members of Parliament. I think we need to get back there again, and since my fellow Members have already spoken in some cases during this debate, I would like to say to my colleague Gergely Arató and my colleague Bence Tordai that it is not so much about fear, I apologise. But if they are forums, then our forums were public, visitable, advertised, and answered the questions. Otherwise, we found that the people living there were not allowed near DK's forums, and otherwise they could not ask... [[Gergely Harvestó: Where have you experienced this?]] Here's the time and place. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In another subject, Congressman, but in several places. But I don't think it's worth taking the debate this far. I call on this House to support the legislator's intention to adopt the law with a view to preventing, on the one hand, the first stage, by introducing a new criminal case, such terrible tragedies as the prospect of the rigour of criminal law, such as the bus tragedy of Verona. In the other case, by amending the Fundamental Law, the proposal extends the protection of public officials in accordance with Article 6 of the Fundamental Law and the Privacy Act. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor and for the constructiveness and participation in the debate to my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-17-172	Thank you, Mrs Czunyi, Congresswoman Judit Bertalan. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. We now have a joint debate on the state tasks related to the development of Budapest and the agglomeration and on the implementation of certain improvements and on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the European Commission Decision SA.50768 on Hungary's film support programme. Government referral T/857. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs, Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2018-07-17-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members, The government is committed to the coordinated development of Budapest, with the aim of creating the Budapest 2030 urban development strategy, defining the objective and instrumental system for the unified development of Budapest's capital by the Municipality of Budapest and the Hungarian state. There are two main factors for the development of Budapest, the city and the state, which are developing in the fields of health, culture, education, transport, tourism and sport through numerous organizations and institutions. What is new in the government cycle starting in 2018 is the coordination of government intentions, the development of investment cycle management, the assessment of investments and the inclusion of a system in the field of capital investment and development. The coordination of government developments in Budapest falls under the responsibility of the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, and a State Secretary has been appointed to carry out the tasks in the person of Balázs Fürjes. [[16.30]] The success of large-scale investments in large cities is a key to resolving the related issues in a separate law. Some specific projects, such as the Liget, Normafa, the Budapest Olympic Centre or the Danube Arena, have already been implemented by law. The general definition of the framework for certain public tasks related to the key developments in Budapest and the creation of a separate law for the so-called "Budapest student city's Southern city gate" development programme is the aim, which is why we are here. The reason for the bill is that the preparation of state, governmental, key urban architecture, real estate and transport infrastructure developments in Budapest and the agglomeration, which are financed by central budgetary resources and EU grants, should be carried out more quickly, efficiently and in a uniform procedural order, using the resources available properly. The bill also lays down special rules for the implementation of the Déli városi városi ároskapu, previously known as the Ferenc Kemény programme, which can only be organised at legal level. In the development area of this investment, a new district is established, which has not been seen in Budapest for decades. In the last 20-30 years, shopping centres, residential parks implemented by private investors have been established, and in the period since 2010 there has been a very large number of unique Community development in the field of sport, culture and education in Budapest compared to previous years, but there has been no experience of such complex government development. It is planned that the Budapest Athletic Stadium will be implemented in the south-Pest and north-Chepel development areas with related facilities, the Budapest Extreme Leisure Park, the Danube rowing center and the Budapest student city. We hope that these developments will bring further private investors into the region. In connection with the Castle Quarter in Buda and within the Palace Quarter in Buda, it can be said that we are talking about one of the most important locations in Hungary's history and national memory, and it is obviously also a crucial part of Budapest's capital from an architectural and urban point of view. The Budapest Palace District and its narrow environment are protected in many respects, including the UNESCO World Heritage, Natural, Monumental and National Remembrance, which is justified by the state in a unified and effective way. To date, however, efforts to ensure a worthy appearance of the area have not been realised due to the inefficient operation of the Buda Palace district and its environment and its legal environment that hinders development. The aim of the bill is to lay down the necessary frameworks for the renewal and effective development of the Buda Palace district and its narrowly taken immediate environment, and to create the possibility of a coordinated and efficient future development investment and operation to ensure a worthy representation of the area. Currently, the buildings and spaces of the so-called Palace district, located in Várhegy, south of the Royal Palace of Buda and the Dísz Square, as well as the surrounding castle wall and the so-called fortress skirt next to the wall, are managed by a number of different state and municipal bodies. The public areas and parks of the Buda Palace district and its narrower surroundings require cooperation between three different owners, the Hungarian state, the Municipality of Budapest and the Municipality of District I. The management of assets and the maintenance of public areas are therefore fragmented, and this fragmentation at the moment prevents the uniform maintenance, development and operation of the palace and its narrower environment. This is not a new problem, it has been with us since the time of the change of regime, which is what the bill wants to improve. The bill calls the preservation, development and management of the Buda Palace district a state-wide public task. The definition of the scope of public tasks ensures the uniform, sustainable development of the area covered by the law, the proper maintenance of public areas, the necessary traffic control, the sustainable operation and use of public areas, the possibility of creating a single urban and architectural image, and the enforcement of related requirements. In addition, the bill also identifies investments in the restoration and renewal of the Buda Palace district as investments of particular public interest, which will help to ensure the smooth implementation of these procedures and conservation and renewal measures. It is important to highlight this, and I would also like to stress to the Members and ladies that the bill does not in any way affect the private property, its use and the provision of welfare, education and other municipal and state tasks in the vicinity of the palace, but only provides for the possibility of the single management of property already owned by the public. Budapest is both home to the Budapest people and the capital of the nation. As a home for Budapesters, it must be homey, well-functioning, user-friendly in modern terms, and worthy and larger as the nation's capital. These two qualities strengthen one another, none can be created without the other, and none can happen at the expense of the other, because it weakens itself. In addition, we hope to add a third European quality to these two qualities: Vienna, perhaps Berlin and Moscow [[Gergely Arató: What does John Lazarus say?]] , and in the Baltic Sea, Adriatic, Black Sea, Budapest can be the most important European centre and regional planning capital in the future, which we have been waiting for for for a very long time. It is always possible to work more and better, of course, and the government is willing to acknowledge this, but it can be said that Budapest today is much more homelier, more livable, a better city than it was eight years ago. This is true even if there are plenty of other tasks; the constructive cooperation between the city administration and the government will certainly not go any further. One of the most important challenges, as I mentioned earlier, is the repair of North Csepel and South Pest. It would also be about the biggest investment in the capital in recent decades under the name of the law, the Southern city gate, the development programme. It's an old debt-reimbursing, short-term development. It achieves urban development in a unified way, creates order, forms the areas of North Csepel and South Pest along the Soroksári-Duna branch. The central element of the development, I would also stress, is the student town, which provides an adequate level of housing for 12,000 university citizens, but there will also be sports facilities and community spaces serving both Hungarian and recreational sports. Major transport developments help to revive the area, one of the main elements of which is the new Danube Bridge, whose international design competition ended in April this year. With the development program of the Southern city gate, the most important investment in the capital of recent decades is realized, we can see never-seen ideas, and in the implementation a new part of the city is born, which we hope will become the most popular part of Budapest thanks to its capabilities and developments. In the context of this investment, the law will allow the development of the Budapest Palace district, the development of the Buda Palace district and the Budapest student city, as well as the other important investments of a particular public interest to be prepared and implemented in a manner consistent with the regulatory principles, in line with the nature of the investments and the characteristics of the sites. I would also like to talk briefly about one more element, not to waste your time, which is also covered by the bill. Budapest has now become one of Europe's film centres thanks to an earlier support system, which generates significant revenues not only for productions but also for the state. Since the introduction of the tax relief scheme, the total revenue of the film industry has increased several times, with the highest revenue increase between 2013 and 2014, when a tax benefit for each film production has increased from 20% to 25%. Similar support schemes in neighbouring European countries need to be developed and therefore Hungary's competitiveness with regard to the film industry needs to be maintained. In 2018, for example, Romania has already set a rate of aid of 35%. [[16.40]] Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to amend the Company Tax and dividend tax Act and the Motion Picture Act, taking into account the European Commission's approval and support decision, to approve the film aid scheme and thus increase the level of indirect aid from 25 per cent to 30 per cent. Our aim is to increase and preserve the values of Hungarian film culture, and also to improve the development and competitiveness of the Hungarian film industry in international terms. I trust we can count on your votes in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman László Salacz, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within a maximum of eight minutes.
u2018-07-17-175	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 16 July 2018, the House Rule 62. T/857 on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and on the implementation of certain improvements and the amendment of certain laws in relation to Commission Decision SA.50768 concerning the programme of support for films in Hungary Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 22 votes to five, with four abstentions. The amended proposal contains only technical and linguistic specifications. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to ensure more efficient, coordinated preparation of public investments in Budapest and agglomeration. What is new in the current government cycle is the coordination of government intentions and investment periods in the field of capital investment and development, and the integration of investment into a single system. The proposal before us serves these goals, which is in the interest of all residents of Budapest and agglomeration, and indeed of all Hungarians, since it is to promote the development of the nation's capital. The other area covered by the proposal needs to be amended because the European Commission has approved an increase in the level of indirect aid from 25% to 30% for Hungary's film programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this proposal in order to achieve the overall social objectives set out in the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-176	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs.
u2018-07-17-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I would like to inform our fellow Members that on 16 July 2018 the Legislative Committee discussed T/857. Bill No 1 and the opposition did not support this proposal in a uniform way, because my fellow Members probably could not accept that we had not received a substantive answer to any of the questions asked. What questions did we ask? I would like to comment on this for a longer time, but let me mention one or two here too. So it is not a question for us how important it is to have a unified development of Budapest, how important and truly highly supportive the objective of the protection of monuments is, and in addition to building, the capital of our nation should be beautiful, but why this bill is absolutely necessary. After all, the current legislative framework for the development, construction and beauty of Budapest, we can protect monuments, so that boathouses can be built on the Danube bank or, where appropriate, a dormitory with 8500 people, all of which give us the opportunity to break the current legislative framework without kicking up and stomping on land-use tools that have been built slowly for decades, but the more certain it is. So why is it necessary, that was our question, and that we already have a substantive answer to the fact that the State Secretary responsible for Budapest's development, whose presence we are missing in an extraordinary way, has yet to come to the TAB, why he cannot now present this bill, represented by him with such enthusiasm, to us here, and he will defend any objections that the opposition will make; why he will not take it face-to-face. Is it because you used to work in a company whose territory is now being bought by the state so that such an establishment can be built there? Is there any connection in this matter? Well, that's a question we'd like to have answered from you, Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-17-178	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-07-17-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Looking back over the past eight years, we can say that Budapest has made a lot of progress, its public squares, its prominent tourist attractions and its conscious and efficient urban reconstructions have brought our capital to the most beautiful cities in the world, the cities most visited by tourists. In addition to the successes, however, we can find zones in Budapest, where we can say that there are still a number of things to do. Therefore, the aim of the bill is to ensure that public, governmental and high-profile urban architecture, real estate and transport infrastructure development and preparation activities, financed from central budgetary resources and EU funding, carried out in Budapest and in the agglomeration in a non-governmental capacity, are carried out in a uniform procedural order. And even though it is the bill itself, this text is specifically from Budapest and I will discuss this further development, it talks about great developments, but it is a very important part of the bill itself that it tries to manage the development of Budapest in a coherent way with the agglomeration. This, I think, is very, very important for us, for agglomeration mayors and Members of Parliament, because although the need is very old to develop the capital and its surroundings in a uniform way, a relatively small number of substantial steps have been taken in this direction. I think that this bill is precisely for that, preparing that this old need, agglomeration and capital need should finally be given some kind of framework, some form. And although it is a matter of debate, I would like to try very simply to answer the point that Congresswoman Hegedűs mentioned in connection with the meeting of the Legislative Committee as to why this law is necessary. If I were to answer this question very simply, I would say, Madam honourable Member, that anyone who worked in practical life, construction, public administration knows very well what the expression that many midwives are losing a child. [[16.50]] In the sense of uniform development at territorial and administrative level, I think that it is very justified, especially in the case of such large-scale developments as those which the capital attracts. What is new in the government cycle starting in 2018 is the coordination of government intentions and the integration of investment into a single system in the field of capital investment, development. The bill in front of us introduces the concept of key development in Budapest, which primarily regulates these developments in terms of tasks performed by the state and its organs, organisational and management issues, preparation and conduct of investments, which I will discuss in a bit more detail in the first part of my speech. As I have already indicated, the present text contains two specific, large-scale developments in the capital, which have already been mentioned by the Secretary of State, so the Budapest student city's Southern city gate and the Buda Palace quarter, which are declared to be a major investment in the public interest. The proposal also lays down special rules for the implementation of the Southern city gate development programme, formerly known as Ferenc Kemény programme, which can only be organised at legal level. The government intends to establish a new city district in the development area of this investment, which has not been experienced in the life of the capital for decades. The Budapest Athletic Stadium with its related facilities, the Budapest Extreme Leisure Park, which includes the BMX, kayak-kenu slalom courts, and the Danube rowing center, as well as the Budapest student city serving as the accommodation of about 8500 students, are also planned in this area. Developments are also expected to attract projects financed by additional private investors to the region. The aim is, of course, to acquire additional sporting events such as the World Athletics Championship in 2023, which is the third largest and most watched sporting event in the world behind the summer Olympic Games and the World Football Championship. It is easy to imagine that in competitions involving more than 2,000 competitors from over 200 countries, about 1 billion viewers will follow the events of this series. I would like to add that Budapest, as a university city, occupies a prominent position in the government's development plans for Budapest. The government has already paid particular attention to higher education investments by Ludovica Campus or the MOM ensemble, and it can be said that Budapest is also a student city. The first step was the findings of the national college development strategy adopted in 2016, and the decision to make Budapest a recognised target of higher education at Central European level for students interested in foreign learning should come from anywhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I would like to move on to another objective in the bill. In December 2003, the Parliament unanimously adopted the film law to increase the number of Hungarian and Hungarian film works, to make film production and the financing of film works more predictable, to mobilise the resources in the industry, and to encourage film industry investments. From the beginning, the film law regulates the system of support for the cinema industry based on a complete professional and political consensus, which has made Hungary and Budapest the main film centre of Europe. The structure of the corporate tax relief and the reimbursement from the escrow account operated by the National Film Fund as a source of indirect aid was first introduced by Hungary from among European countries. The predictable and fast functioning system for film productions has attracted an increasing number of international productions with a large budget since 2004, which has increased the revenue of the Hungarian film industry. Ladies and gentlemen, It cannot be ignored that the indirect aid scheme has a multiplier effect, since, in addition to stimulating the industry concerned, it has generated significant revenue in other areas of the economy through taxes and charges paid by film producers and their suppliers, as well as tax revenues generated by increasing demand for other industries. In addition, over the past decade and a half, infrastructure developed in line with the needs of foreign productions has generated countless investments, especially in the creation of post-production studios, while creating these backgrounds, thanks to the training programme of the Hungarian film industry, the skilled workforce has also appeared in Hungary. From this, it is clear that the continuous strengthening of the Hungarian film industry since 2004 has not only contributed to GDP growth, but has also created countless new jobs. And, of course, it is not negligible that Hungary is also integrated into the film community at international level. As you can see, the country's competitive advantage is mainly due to the aid scheme introduced in 2004 and which has since developed a lot. In addition to the continuous development of infrastructure and human resources, it is also essential that legislation is sufficiently adapted to the specific and constantly changing nature of the motion picture industry to maintain our dominant position in the market. The fact that Hungary's success in the film industry has also inspired the neighbouring countries, which have tried to introduce a support structure based on similar principles, cannot be ignored. The European Commission also approved the introduction of the film support programme presented by other countries in the region, with the extension of the film support programme in Hungary. The most striking example is perhaps the neighbouring Romania, where there was no indirect support so far, but it will be introduced immediately at a rate of 35 per cent from July, which can be increased by an additional 10 per cent in the event of emphasising Romanian characteristics, so that even 45 per cent indirect support can be granted for a film production. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The bill before us creates the possibility of increasing the level of indirect support from 25 percent to 30 percent with the approval of the European Commission. The amendment, which is proposed as soon as possible in the light of the changes in the legislative environment in the region, together with the infrastructure and professional staff developed over the past decade and a half, is already capable of maintaining Hungary's market position in the film industry. On this basis, I ask you, this House, to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-180	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-07-17-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The proposal concerns three topics:. Budapest student city The implementation of the Southern city gate programme, the implementation of the investment in the renewal of the Buda Palace district and the amendment of the legislation on film support. Furthermore, the amendment that people can already be recruited by contract of employment in connection with the supervision of public procurement is more loosely linked to the creation of a non-binding government service or public service relationship. If we are talking about the developments in Northern Csepel, which you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, how important it is that this development should be implemented, then it should be said here that the centre of the 2024 Olympic competition in Budapest would have been exactly this North Csepel section they were applying for. It's worth a bit of time here. My fellow Member, Fideszes, said that these sports facilities will be implemented in preparation for the World Athletics Championship 2023. According to press information, it can be said that Budapest will sort this out. [[17.00]] Let's just get back to the Olympic competition and the wet World Championship. At the time, the budget of the water world, if I remember correctly, when we voted on it for the first time, even we supported it from the Hungarian Socialist Party, we could talk about costs of nearly HUF 30 billion. Then, in the end, we saw that no one was able to trace why it became 140 billion, and then it reached the cost of up to 170 billion forints with unforeseen costs. In fact, we can see that the water world is long over, but there are still costs involved. So I'm a little scared when we talk about having a world competition in Hungary that is third after the Olympics and football World Championships. This World Athletics Championship could be a third one of those world competitions. And then Uncle Dagobert shows up in front of my eyes again with the dollars, and I see that we're gonna be sitting here in Parliament, and all we're gonna see from this is that again, it's gonna cost billions more. We'll plan 20 billion, and in the end, God knows where this indicator's gonna stop. Of course, when we talk about who will have this investment in their hands, we will see once again that Lőrinc Mészáros near the government will surely be one of his big winners again. But I think that today children in Hungary may already be able to list who will benefit from this. I'd like to say one more to Mr. Secretary of State. If we're talking about the development of North Csepel and Csepel, I suggest you pay attention, and I'm sorry that Szilárd Németh doesn't have a point here, the Weiss-Manfred plan. In 2010, Szilárd Németh announced as mayor, which was a huge ten-year vision, hundreds of billions of HUF development. Some of these investments are part of it, but there's a lot left out. Then, Mr Secretary of State, if the development of Budapest and the agglomeration is so important that our capital is developing so much, I would like to point out to you the implementation of this plan, which was then voted by Szilárd Németh that these projects will be implemented within ten years. It is 2018, and I would add that I have just submitted this Weiss-Manfred plan to the budget, and imagine that the Economic Committee and Parliament, Szilárd Németh himself, voted against this plan, which he initiated in 2010 as mayor and Member of Parliament. There is a lot in this plan that might need to be considered, and if we are talking about the development of North Csepel, it might be worth considering. In the meantime, they come here with an amendment to the law, where we hear a big speech from the Secretary of State, how important these developments are, and these amendments are being voted out in the budget, I would add, by your invention, your own Secretary of State, then only a Member of Parliament and mayor. In implementing the Buda Palace District, let me highlight one thing. They create a 100% state-owned non-profit company that will manage the relevant property in the palace district for around a hundred years and also acquire the right to property management. I would add that the state will also acquire the properties of the municipalities. Mr. Secretary. Again, I can tell you that they're creating a nonprofit company, which, like the previous ones, will be a money-sucking company. Of course, you can hide people in this nonprofit company for a good salary. In the meantime, let the old-timer come out of me. When will it be important for you, apart from the Castle and the fact that Viktor Orbán and his company will move into the Castle and the solution to the whole government, rural people and health care? And I have to say again that no one can track how much these investments are going to cost and how much they're going to spend. It's just that every once in a while we hear about him, they're gonna be wallpapering one of the rooms with million-dollar wallpapers. To add, these are just the tiny forints that put up millions of wallpapers. It's just, you know, the common people understand that, and they get their heads up when they hear the news. When will it be important, say, for rural people, to solve health care? Is it really important that Viktor Orbán and the ministers and the entire apparatus move up to the Castle? Because this is all about making Viktor Orbán feel as soon as possible that he is not the Prime Minister of Hungary, but perhaps his king. I think there are far more serious problems in Hungary today than we have been listening to for years how this Castle Quarter should be developed. I'll add that if we look at the whole package of laws, they're doing the same thing they've been doing for years to file a salad bill. There is a part of it that could be supported, let us say, with regard to the film industry, even though I rarely praise Andy Vajna, because I do not have a habit and I do not want to praise him very much, but we can be proud of the film success we have achieved in recent years, and this must continue. And if the foreign countries are going to take an example of us, it's finally something that we can show you that we might need to follow. It's just that there are parts of this salad law that you can't accept, just like the law we discussed before. There may be parts, and it should be resolved, but they do these laws in such a way that the opposition can never come out of this. Because there might be a part we can vote for, but you reject two or three others and guts. It's from the guts! And we have been seeing this for years now, that this legislative process will not stop. Mr. Secretary. Please also give an answer as to why this should be done in such an urgent procedure. Why can't you give me more time? Why do we always have to do this by talking about important laws, very important investments, as you said, Secretary of State, and there's no time to talk about it? They won't give me a chance. Yesterday, we were confronted in Parliament by the fact that in exceptional proceedings two more very important laws were submitted. A very important law on people is being introduced. Because if you look at the Buda Castle that lives there, it affects every single citizen, because it's gonna cost us a hell of a lot of money, it's gonna affect the property of the I. district government. About the Csepel, it concerns the residents who live there in connection with South Pest. Why do you always have to do this so quickly? Or they're like, we're gonna settle these things very quickly here before summer break, and then we can prepare the kind of immeasurable theft we've experienced in the last eight years anyway. I think, Mr. Secretary, you should consider this at last, so that we can speak with all our heart of a law so that we can really support it, because there are good things in it, and not adding three or four more things that can only be rejected, and therefore even reject that good. True, I know that the pro-government representatives will vote for you regardless, but because of this, I think it should be considered by the opposition that... And one more thing, because I don't want to forget: Csaba Tarsoly's former Quaestor scandal. You can answer that, can't you, Mr. Secretary? The property that was sold and demanded of the Quaestor-damaged so that they could get a legitimate answer, and when do these victims get an answer? To get Aaron below, to damage 33,000 people, and to this day, they have not put an end to it. Isn't that what you're going to answer to me, Mr. Secretary? Because I'm not the only one who's gonna ask you. I am very sorry that the Commissioner is not here, because in the end, Imre Vejkey will be left alone in Parliament. I think that there are many, many questions to ask about these investments, and I hope that you are one of the new people, although I do not know. I hope I don't misread that as a new person, you will give us a reassuring answer to our questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-17-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[17.10]]
u2018-07-17-183	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Government T/857. He submitted a bill to this House on outstanding developments in Budapest. The aim of the proposal is to establish a framework for certain state tasks related to the key developments in Budapest, as well as to establish a separate law for the implementation of the Déli városvárosváros. In the future, major developments in Budapest are the development of public areas, public spaces and building buildings in Budapest, financed by budgetary or European Union funds, as well as the development of fixed transport infrastructure in the capital and the agglomeration, which are implemented by central government bodies or 100% by state-owned companies, and which have been highlighted by the Government in its regulation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill also creates the concept of a major international sporting event, including sports events of major international or international interest in Budapest. According to the bill, a non-profit company, which is 100% owned by the Hungarian State, will be responsible for preparing the key developments in Budapest, including government decision preparation, preparation of the investment, planning programme, planning and licensing, and the application for the right to organise key international sporting events, together with the performance of contracting tasks. The draft law also contains and lays down specific rules for the implementation of the former name Ferenc Kemény programme. It is planned that in the development areas of South Pest and North Csepel there will be an athletic stadium with related facilities, i.e. a leisure park, a rowing center and the planned student city of 8500 students. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to what has been said above, the bill also proposes to lay down the necessary framework for the renewal and effective development of the Buda Palace district and its environment. The bill should therefore also provide for the possibility of coordinating development investments to ensure the proper appearance of the Buda area even more effectively. All this merely means that, as Kossuth tér has been brought into lawmaking by law, it is justified and necessary to do the same for the part of the Buda Castle located from Dísz tér to the royal palace. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill amends the legislation on investments that are of major importance for the national economy, complementing it with the institution of investment of particular public interest. The proposal lists investments related to the performance of public tasks of particular importance, in particular energy, transport development, environmental protection, water and water protection, disaster protection, national security, public administration and education, health, research and development, cultural heritage protection, sport and urban development. According to the bill, the government can at the same time declare an investment of major importance for the national economy as an investment of particular public interest. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the draft law is also to amend the Act of 1996 on Corporate Tax and dividend and the Act of 2004 on Motion Picture, in the light of the European Commission's decision to increase the level of indirect aid from 25 per cent to 30 per cent in the case of Hungary's film programme. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/857. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-184	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-07-17-185	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is once again like the poppy noodles with goulash soup, but not one after the other, but at the same time, poured into a plate. One part of the bill, which concerns film support, is in the view of the Democratic Coalition that it is essentially okay. We liked this even when it was our idea, because in 2003-2004 we introduced this kind of support by consensus on a proposal from our government, and then later we took care of the necessary European Commission authorisation and European Union authorisation. So it's a cool thing, it's worth doing, it's worth continuing, there's no particular problem. It was only to add the amendments to the legislation relating to Budapest. At Minister Gergely Gulyás's ministerial hearing on local governments, where he spoke very enthusiastically about plans for the capital, I asked him how this would be done, after proper discussions the rules on this will be included, and finally a dialogue between the capital and the government, as well as between district authorities and the government. I am, of course, reassured by Minister; I do not say that I have believed all his words on the basis of previous experience, and unfortunately I must say that this kind of suspicion has not proved to be unjustified. After all, in an emergency, exceptional procedure, we managed to put forward a bill for adoption in four days so that, in substance, local governments did not comment on it, they could not see it, they could not speak to it, but it is simply again that you are pushing it through force, but I would like to talk about the assumed reasons for this at the end. The law, if we make it very simple, would actually be enough, is that everything in the capital is decided by the government. It doesn't matter what's in the Fundamental Law about the rights of local governments, it doesn't matter what's in the Law on Construction, it doesn't matter what any legislation is; what the government thinks they want it to be. The government is omniscient and omnipotent, this bill is essentially about this. You can bring everything to yourself, you can make everything this or that, and on that basis, no rules apply from now on to what the government wants. We have heard great examples of this mentality, one of which is Kossuth Square, and the other two are Ludovika and Városliget; the latter have become a symbol of the destruction of the capital's environmental heritage, and at that time we are not talking about the architectural and urban implementation of the Ludovika project. As regards Kossuth tér, we had just yesterday the opportunity to talk to the State Secretary about the evolution of political will into a body, where appropriate, into a built environment, and certainly not about urban architecture, and certainly not about the fact that the people of Budapest could have anything to do with it. We also know the background to the two priority issues on which this legislation is drawn, although I add that it concerns not only these issues, but also two specific issues that are being tried to resolve here. One of these cases is called the student town. It's a wonderful thing. We remember what this is about: you dreamed of an Olympics, which turned out not to be requested by anyone, at least not by the people of Budapest, but, nevertheless, something must be built there, it is necessary for you to spend that public money at least in your opinion, so the function that was later invented for the after-utilization of Olympic facilities and especially the Olympic village is now becoming the main function and building colleges. We need to build a dorm, and there's no debate between us. In order to be needed there, this can be seriously questioned from a traffic point of view. I'm sure, not sure, we know that there are places in the city that are better suited for this in many ways, but otherwise, the northern island peak area and that part of the South-Ferencváros are an area that can be developed and developed. [[17.20]] So, in itself, there's actually nothing wrong with this thing. There's gonna be a problem with where this money comes from, and that money really needs to be here, or maybe you could use it better. But once again, building a dormitory could be a useful goal. At least now it is not a football stadium, but it is creating facilities for sports where Hungary can truly deliver meaningful performance. The question is why this is not done properly, because there are relevant capitals, local rules, there are laws to comply with them! If you want to build a house at home, a family house, you have to follow every rule, get every permit, take your time. Do it to the government, and follow the rules. I have mentioned at committee meetings, my favorite example is that for example, such facilities do not have flood protection rules, do not need to obtain flood protection permits, and then, perhaps, flood protection facilities will be built separately or perhaps not. I don't need to tell you that the Danube is not going to care about what you guys have classified this thing as, by the way, a priority. As a result, there are rules on flood protection in the capital for a reason, which must be respected by everyone outside of you, and no one will be exempted from these permits for a reason. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It was just one small example. After all, I have to tell you, isn't it, that the government thinks it doesn't apply to him if he wants to build something? It's much more unpleasant and worse than this Castle District case. The new royal palace is built for His Majesty, and you would like to provide a pleasant environment of all kinds: you will acquire land, in a very difficult way to determine... the I. district municipality can practically be declared redundant and ceased. The Castle of Buda is no longer part of the Hungarian municipal system, and they have virtually no driver's license there, except that the mayor can live there. So there's no other option. The fact is, in this area, you are practically eliminating the local government and introducing direct government control. Among other things, they can determine the order of transport. You might guess that from here on out, this will make it easier for those metropolitans and tourists who want to get up to the Castle. I've got some tips that I don't. But obviously your boss has ordered this; he does not wish to hang the Lord Major if he is disturbed by anything, but rather take this matter into his own hands. I must say that this creates the full power for you to invest in a ragby and unnecessary investment created under shameful circumstances. This one day will be a symbol of that immeasurable ego, and how should I put this delicately? It's a stupidity that characterizes this government. Speaking of yesterday, I'm going to mention that Matthias Rákosi had a little more sense of style in this case, who didn't contribute to the government moving to the Castle. Speaking of Lord Major, let me also mention that it is not a coincidence that this very weekend the news has leaked that István Tarlós wishes to run for mayor again. We understand that even he is not willing to lead a capital that has been your loyal party soldier until now, to sit in, which is now being stripped of all his meaningful duties. But I must say, fellow Members, that sooner or later they will also have to face the consequences of these actions in the sense that they can try to take away Budapest's autonomy, try to punish the capital and the capital because, at least, most of them did not vote for you in this parliamentary election. You may be terrified that, whether in the capital or in the districts, there will be local governments that do not carry out your orders, but act in the interest of the residents, in the interests of the people of Budapest. But many governments have tried to punish the guilty city before, and I have to say that in the longer term none of them have succeeded, the people of the capital will stand up for themselves, and they will take back their city for themselves, whatever laws they make. The Democratic Coalition cannot therefore support your urgent legislative action in this matter, because we have no doubt that the urgent procedure is because there is no time for a substantive debate because someone or someone has been promised that these investments will go quickly. You're gonna be able to scoop the public money out of every construction project that's ever happened, with all these wonderful priority investments. And it's important for you to prevent this from being unreasonable, to prevent anyone from interfering or looking into it, but I have to tell you that in the short term, this may work out, in the longer term, these matters will come out, and those responsible will be responsible for them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-17-186	Thank you, Congressman. A two-minute lead speakership would be possible after the announced round. [[There's no signal.]] No report. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Group of Dialogues.
u2018-07-17-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Here, I am also curious about the exceptional procedure, why it came before Parliament in this form, what is the reason, what is the reason; that is what was said in the previous bill. This does not give us the opportunity to debate in substance, nor to study the bill in one day. And at a time like this, when a law comes here in exceptional procedures, we're always suspicious of what's really in it. In the first round, studying the law, I'd divide it into three parts. With the first two, the filmmaker's part, as has been said before, my fellow Members have said that we can even agree with the agglomeration section. The most important one is the bill concerning Budapest. We are already familiar with the investment of a particular public interest, especially with the City Park, what this is about, we have already learned, it gives practically free hand to the State and to the state company that is carrying out the investment. Local regulations do not have to be complied with, rules do not have to be complied with, environmental regulations do not have to be complied with. In connection with the City Park, Orczy Garden, we have seen that the result of this is that they are quite fond of cutting down trees. We are still afraid of how this is going to work in these areas. The coordination of developments in Budapest is a good goal, and it is not a problem, although we can see that the aim of this bill is to bring these developments to the full by the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Definitely takes custody of the capital and takes serious powers from the capital. What you call fragmentation, we think it's more of a municipality. You're right, it's obviously very difficult to carry out these investments, get permits, and the rest, but you've been on the government for eight years, why don't you try to refine these bureaucratic obstacles a little bit, use laws that will help you create and invest such things more easily. My questions are: have you discussed this with Mr. Mayor Tarlós in Budapest, or with the representatives of the districts concerned, or have these proposals been discussed with local bodies? Have you prepared an environmental and impact assessment of the plans here? Did you negotiate with the BKV? We will talk here about the two priority investments, which may raise questions. There is one particular thing in the bill that the law does not affect any private property. In total, it includes two municipal land with no superstructure in the territory of the State. Is it possible that I have been ignoring the bill, which are the specific ones that we are talking about here? In connection with the two locations, the student town and the southern city gate, my fellow Member Arató asked why this college of 8500 people is being built here and how this will be resolved in transport. There are more questions about the Castle. You are now setting up a government district in the Castle, but there is also a tourist quarter, a residential district, and the coordination of this will be a major challenge in the coming years. Plus, as far as I know, there are underground garage plans, and there are even more underground garage plans besides what they're building right now. And the question is, how long can the protected cave and cellar system in the belly of Várhegy withstand this, and in any construction the unexpected infiltration can be expected. [[17 .30]] So it would be nice to know exactly what they're planning here in Castle District. If the Secretary of State can answer these questions, I thank you. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-07-17-188	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group.
u2018-07-17-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Then I will summarize what the bill is about, first of all for you, because you have given us so many beautiful and valuable thoughts, so many beautiful comments to support, which have nothing to do with this law. In the beginning, therefore, there was a law on investments of major importance for the national economy. By the way, it was the law of the MSZP-SZDSZ administration back in the day. You started to boost this law after 2010, because it wasn't even fast enough for you, what was written in that law, but made the way for investors even more freely, opened the door even more wide, and accelerated the various administrative procedures that still exist. Of course, let me add that the priority investments, which could have been made under this law, were already, in whole or in part, related to the development of all kinds of beautiful monuments, monuments, monuments in the world heritage area, and so on, and would have provided an extremely wide framework for the development of all kinds of beautiful monuments, monuments, monuments and monuments made by the European Union, partly or entirely from a central budget, with individual government decision, of at least HUF 90 million. But back then, during the MSZP-SZDSZ administration, this was invented for King City, so for the investment in Sukoro, but I'm telling you, you've upgraded it more and more. Then came the period of, say, two or three weeks ago, when you added this in such a way that any land that the government thus prioritises can be established by the government. Why was that necessary? To build a tower as high as Gellért Hill in Hungary. That was literally the goal, that was the reason: we're talking about MOL headquarters in relation to the Kopasi dam. Therefore, even with regard to the construction code, it raises such investments above all else. But even that wasn't enough for you, which we accepted two weeks ago, but now, in this bill, we have the expression that it is an investment in the highest public interest. Within this particularly public interest investment, even an additional category is created, that of the key Budapest development. So in this way they form a rather rapid procedure, giving quite extra qualifications and opportunities in the hands of the company or someone who will build them, practically for the builder, and all the right to say, in any sense restrictive, possibly for the neighbouring community, for the whole of Budapest, the opportunity for the population of Budapest, will be lost once and for all and for all. Why do I say this in a way that provides a full range of opportunities for someone or someone? It is written in the Glossary, i.e. in the interpretation provisions that the key Budapest development is financed by state money, and that the central government body is either 100% state owned or not 100% state-owned, can be the realization of this particular investment. You can understand it, or not 100 percent. Let's give you a number that's not 100 percent, let's see, 1 percent. So in Hungarian: practically without the ownership share of the state, such a company can conduct this. This is further reinforced by Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. § (1) in which they no longer talk about the company, but that they may also appoint a person to carry out, carry out, and build this investment by the government. By the way, this is a very harsh contradiction, Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that sometimes work soon is not so good, and, in addition to the countless contradictions and, let us say, spelling errors, there may also be a logical disturbance in the draft laws of this kind, which are quickly vomitted. So, yes, on this basis, it is possible that that person, for example, in the way that the House has recently voted on state assets, as regards the state property law, namely, in terms of asset management, may appoint one person by individual decision of the government, and then, in all respects, it will receive the trust entitlement, benefit from it, appoint management, and so on. So, in fact, you will be able to appoint one person for the same job to make such a key investment in Budapest. This is also important because it is necessary to examine the history of these areas, namely the Palace Quarter and the area of the student city. Let's look at this first on the student town. There are two very important things here. One of them is that where the Budapest athletic center was built, it was owned by WING. We are talking about the WING, where Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes worked not so long ago, and which WING acquired for a billion forints at the time, but then Balázs Fürjes came over to the government in some way, yet interesting things could happen in the background, because now the state bought it for 15 or 16 billion forints from WING for this very noble purpose. So in just a few years, for nothing to happen in that area, the grass is growing the same way, so WING gained a profit of some 14-15 billion forints. But the other area, which we know is that Quaestor and the other investor, whose name I'm about to name, was owned by Gropius, is now worth knowing about these two companies, both at the same time, that they had a significant and meaningful relationship with the underworld, and that both of them went bankrupt quite spectacularly. In these areas, not so long ago, three years ago, you, the National Development Agency, offered this area to foreign investors on a 40-page document. At the time, this was called the Duna City project, and it is announced that some 500-1000 new square meters can be built here. Why could government actors so enthusiastically recommend this to foreign investors? I said, not that long ago, a few years ago. Well, because, according to the current regulations, we should stop for a moment and say that everyone is saying how difficult it is to build and develop in Hungary or within Budapest. Please, this complexity is usually summarized by the law. There, that's it. The law must be observed. [[17.40]] Our fellow Member Vécsey said that there is no uniform concept of Budapest's agglomeration. I would like to say to him: didn't you hear about the agglomeration of Budapest's spatial planning plan, which is legal? With all due respect, you guys have changed it a couple of times. Of course it is. ! This law also has a concept, there is a part of design work, there is a regulatory part, it is an absolute unified development concept, let us say, for Budapest and its agglomeration, for about 80 other settlements. So there is such a regulation. Yes! Even Budapest has a development concept, a settlement structure plan, a capital decree on regulation, and a Ferencváros. This area, this particular student town project, belongs to the administrative area of the municipality of Ferencváros. It also has a so-called district building code, a regulatory plan that allows for three and a half level area indicators, 25 or 45 meters high buildings, 50-60 percent installation percentage. It contains only one function excluded, this is industrial activity. So, yes, there are two types of zones: institutional area or green public park, for each it would have been possible to place the dormitory seats, either the water facilities, the BMX track, the tennis court or any one of them could have been easily placed under the current rules. Then why is this whole package of laws in front of us? Because this whole thing is a cover story. Because it doesn't really have anything to do with what's actually going to happen there. Why do I say that? Because the bill itself says so, but you have repeatedly said that in fact, there is a state idea, that is one thing, but you are actually expecting additional private investors. So that 500 thousand square meters of what these plans are all about is not going to be the BMX orbit, not the 8500-person dorm! It's this. It's just a question of whose interest you brought this in here. You said all the midwives lost their children. And let me ask you, whose child is that? That's what the law is about, that's what the question is. For whose sake do we need to legislate this infinitely accelerated procedure? Who will be the man who, according to the bill before us, is also if it is 4. We're looking at Section A, can you order the mayor? That's the story. Not only can you ask questions to the mayor or ask for information, but you can also propose to take action, which may be answered by the mayor within 15 days, but no one is interested, that measure will take place. It's written here, in this law. The other question is the Palace Quarter. It is said that this is something that needs to be done in order to renew and improve its environment effectively. I looked at the detachment to see what was actually there. The streets are listed by you. There are apartment buildings on the doubles side of Hunyadi János Street and on the unparalleled side of Lanchíd Street, there are the old casino building and the recently renovated entire Castle Garden Bazaar. There are a few residential buildings, of which a significant part, I think, is protected by monuments, and I think it is part of a unified view of the Danube coast, which is otherwise protected by world heritage. So you can't really rebuild that. Besides, there's a green field. What does effective development actually mean? 'Cause it's not written here, by the way. Because in the other case, you're going to give us a list of projects that you're going to build in principle, but we're only talking about effective development here. If you think of the green field, how can you improve it effectively? Well, let's see. Let's plant flowers or water the trees. Or what are we thinking here? So if you put a bill in front of this House, and if you take us seriously, please respect us by writing down what you really want to build here. Because I do not think that, by the way, the development of green areas is so important to you that there is a need to create a separate law here, and that all the property and property in here must be taken into state property with immediate effect, so I do not think that this in itself would justify urgency and the introduction of this procedure. So I'm asking you very nicely to give me a concrete answer to what's going to be built here. So you're going to consider the skirt of the Castle, so you're going to consider the entire area, which is currently unbuilt, to be built, and you're going to place something there, something you want to build. I am not only talking about the underground garage, which is already under construction on the west slope of the Castle, but also about some further development. More has already been said in relation to the trustee, but let me add that the trustee of the Palace Quarter, which is supposed to be 100% state-owned, does not have to fulfil the obligation to redeem depreciation. Why not? Why don't you have to? What is the investment, or who do you think is going to be the investor, that is extremely important, since we are talking about state assets, you do not have to fulfil your minimum obligation? Overall, I can tell you that you will simply put Budapest under guardianship. However, let me just say for a sentence that this will not only be the case for the priority investments in Budapest, but also for all major investments in the public interest, which is another major opportunity and where projects in Budapest are already being carried out. But in the case of major investments in public interest, there will be no need to bring it here, to legislate about it, but without practically speaking to a city's community of residents, from one moment to the next, a government-specific decision, decided to start these investments. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-07-17-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that someone else would like to comment on the remaining time. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán adjusts his microphone.]] and I give the floor to Mr Secretary of State, the rapporteur, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Defiance. Péter Ungár: Attribution!]]
u2018-07-17-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Yeah, I'm ready for that now, if we've stayed here this long. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It's new, that's why! Defiance.]] And first of all, I would like to apologize for the fact that the Prime Minister's Office is only represented by a Deputy Minister in today's debate, but I hope that my person will be accepted as a competent replyer. First of all, I'd like to put a little bit of the disinformation experiments you've made, obviously mostly from the opposition benches, into place. One is why we need this bill. It was also mentioned in the expoze that, in the case of similar investments, similar special legislative proposals, specifically to help investments, were discussed earlier by the Parliament. So in that sense, there's no new under the sun. It is something that has happened before, in connection with the Liget, the Normafa, the Olympic Centre and, for example, the Danube Arena. The second is that this may be difficult to accept, but it is not that the legislative environment is being set in parentheses in the event of such a priority investment, but that, yes, certain legal conditions, which are otherwise correct and generally non-absorbed, are hindering the creation of investments in legal conditions and ownership relationships. Ask the local authorities. Please ask the rural opposition-led municipalities what difficulties there are in relation to such and similar investments, which are obviously smaller! In cases of expropriation, flood protection, municipal and other matters, specific rules may also have to be established because of the particular nature of the investments in their volume and quality. [[17.50]] On the other hand, I would also like to deny the disinformation that in any way it is a matter of touching or transforming residential areas. The bill doesn't concern residential areas here, does it? This is very clear from the annex to the bill. So I would suggest to the Members and ladies that the annex to the bill is also being studied for the Castle District in Buda, and it is clear that it is an area of municipal and state ownership, otherwise in a narrow sense. The other, let me respond to Mr Arato's suggestion about Mátyás Rákosi. Mátyás Rákosi didn't want to move to the former government district up to the Castle because he didn't believe in the separation of power because he was an author despot. Because he was a communist killer, and he thought that the separation of power was not necessary, but that power should be treated with one voice, in which the executive power and the legislative power must be implemented in one place. Because he didn't see the difference between the two. But I think that it is a shame that only now, in the years to come, after the change of regime in Hungary, can be realized that the executive power and the legislative power are also physically divorcing each other. In a way that has never been called into question in the most fortunate democracies in history. And until Mátyás Rákosi mentioned as a positive example got rid of Hungarian history, we did not have a similar problem. I'm sorry for the anger, but I find the references to this fascinating in every case. Next item. I have a feeling that the rabbit shouldn't be carrying the hunting rifle; so that the government is accused of a lot of things, but that investments that are in the interest of the population, the interests of the country and the interests of the people of Budapest cannot be carried out, it is not customary to accuse. In fact, I think the government, in the context of Budapest, can be particularly proud of the developments that have been made in recent years. And it's not the words, it's not the government's communication tools that dominate, it's the facts and the government's developments. Just to collect a few things: Kossuth tér, Renewal of Parliament, Várkert Bazár, Erzsébet tér, Tram 1 refurbished, Tüskekcsarnok finished, which started in the previous cycle, completion of metro line 4 [[Gergely Harvesto: Is Metro 4 okay now?]] , also our previous debt repayment, the renovation of the Pest Vigadó, and then also: Millenáris, Kopaszi Dam, Hungarian National Museum, the Buda Castle, the part concerning the Carmelite Monastery, Fővám Square, Erzsébet Bridge, Vajdahunyadvár within the framework of the Liget project, Transport Museum, House of Music, Ludovika, Museum of Applied Arts, Matild Palace, and more. I'm gonna stop categorizing. I have one more compilation, and I would also be happy to read it, which includes investments that were not carried out before 2010, from the government quarter through the Aquincum Bridge to the rehabilitation of Moscow Square. So the thing is, after 2010, we can give you a list, not by the government itself, but a list that is publicly available, which includes the investments made, and from before 2010 we can give you a list that includes the investments that have not been carried out. So I think it's worth fixing. And finally, I'd like to make a general comment, if I may. I am a child from Budapest, born specifically in the city, I grew up here too, now I moved to Buda, so I hope the Pests will forgive me; the Buda people will certainly not accept me, but this is not really important, but I am very interested in the history of Budapest's development. I would be lying if I told you that I have read a great deal in this regard, but I do have a certain reading background. I highly recommend studying previous debates on Budapest's urban development a century ago. On the one hand, in the Council of Metropolitan Public Works and, on the other hand, in front of the then publicity of the time, it is obvious that the press is full of press reports and various Council reports with such and similar speeches, such as these and similar ones, to say that there are obstacles. I found two of them when I was preparing for this debate today. More than a hundred years ago, in the context of the Margaret Bridge, the contemporary press is full of opinions and findings that, on the one hand, the Margaret Bridge does not make any sense because it starts from nowhere and leads nowhere, and on the other hand, it is extremely expensive, and the taxpayers' money should be spent elsewhere. This was precisely because, by the way, that swampy area at the time was used on the Pest side to get the horses out and wash them. The other argument, which is always said in connection with such investments, and I think it is equally witty, and this reminds me of the Maupassant story, the famous novelist and poet, about him the anecdote that simply hated the Eiffel Tower in Paris, and the biggest critic of the Paris Eiffel Tower in public life. In connection with him, the legend is that he was always in the Eiffel Tower, in the built tower in the restaurant, because he hated his sight, and it was the only place in the city where the Eiffel Tower couldn't be seen. So it is full, not only of Hungarian history, but also of foreign examples, that all these urban development debates are filled with similar opposition speeches. But if we look at what history teaches us in this case, and we would be open to absolutely, even professional critical comments, only this is not the dominant element of all speeches, but the political resolution. In connection with which history teaches us that those who have made this type of investment, all of which I have listed for you, and to which the current bill tries to establish a manageable, accelerated, effective procedure, history has pushed these critics to the wrong side. Quite simply, these representatives were then on the wrong side of history, and they were on the right side of history... [[Interview from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] There are historical examples here, this is the last hundred years! We have to look at the history of Budapest a hundred years ago! Members who made ambitious plans, proved them through hard, hard work, moved these administrative barriers, and built the improvements that made Budapesters and I so proud of our capital. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] In this regard, I can only ask you to try to think in a historical perspective, and in this context perhaps consider supporting the legislative package put forward by the government. Thank you for the floor, and thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-17-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Friday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the European Parliament, Mr LMP, asked for an address on the situation of families raising autistic children. You have the floor, Congressman Peter Ungár.
u2018-07-17-193	Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. The fact is that I am not going to talk about this problem for the first time or for the last time, because I have asked the government on several written questions and in other ways, what it is doing for children with special needs, including autism, with a spectrum disorder, and it always answers, Mr Rétvári State Secretary, but it is changing so dynamicly that the state pays particular attention to the support of autists and the provision of the necessary services. We have seen that this is not really the case in Hungary; in the year of families, these families are not supported at all. Therefore, LMP has launched a legal aid service in which anonymously or under the name of Hungarian citizens, families with autistic children, family fathers tend to send in comments and stories that show what problems they have. What could be changed at a legislative level, and what this House should do, for example, is that the education of children with special educational needs and of children with autism spectrum disorder is included in many kindergartens and schools. There is no law on the conditions to be met in order to include one of these in the articles of association. [[18.00]] So I'm gonna go, I'm gonna put it in, it's gonna be there; it's typically a thing that can be regulated by law. I would like to give you a few examples of people who have a specific problem in their lives, where the regulatory environment, which I will otherwise be living with in this regard, has not been solved by the government to this day. For example, in a town with county rights in West Hungary, a woman with 3.5 years of autistic child. At the age of 3, there's a mandatory kindergarten. There is a local kindergarten where it was not included in the articles of association; from there it received a negative decision. There was a special kindergarten 20 miles [30 km] away, where it had the condition, and it was in the charter. That's where he got a negative decision because there's a three-year waiting list to send his child 30 kilometers away. He should be in school by then. In addition, from the kindergarten one closer to it, where it is included in the articles of association, it also received a negative decision because, although it was included in the statutes, they could not, on grounds of a shortage of numbers, solve the fact that there would be a separate room where this child could be specially developed and there was no medical educator. So it was written in the articles of association in this kindergarten in Western Hungary that there were no conditions. Therefore, this child does not participate in kindergarten education with a notary permit. All the state can do is pay this family two early upgrades a week. It's a good thing you pay for this, but it doesn't solve the problem of socializing a child with autism spectrum disorder in kindergarten. It is good for him to be able to take part in kindergarten education in a special way and not to do so. I'll give you another example, it was also in a rural town of over 10,000 people. Here, the child was 3.5 years old. At this time, kindergarten education is the biggest problem. Here, too, they were given two negative decisions, but then the notary office, citing that they did not know what to do, and that was not regulated by law, did not allow them to postpone. Child protection went out here, and it was as if the parent here had done something wrong by not being able to give his child to kindergarten, so he tried to fine them. After that, this family mother succeeded in avoiding this fine, but still, in itself, putting a man through such an administrative torture, when, without his own fault, because the state does not perform his duties, he cannot give his autistic child to kindergarten, it is quite outrageous. And I'll give you another specific example of Dabas. Here the child is 5.5 years old. For two years, the mother hasn't been able to put her child in kindergarten. What happened here was that he was admitted to the nursery in Dabas, where the articles of association also include the possibility of receiving children living with autism, and two weeks later he was kicked out of kindergarten, claiming that he could not provide special services in any way. This does not constitute a violation of the law in Hungary today, as it is not possible to know exactly how a kindergarten can enter this in the articles of association. Then Ceglédre was finally expelled by the notary's office. Access between Dabas-Cegléd is not good. This is a particularly poor Hungarian family, they do not have a car, and by public transport a child living with autism can already travel much harder. In addition, they can't deliver it properly to this kindergarten in Cegléd, because for example, it would mean so much loss for the mother from work, so she couldn't go to work, she would have to go to a care fee, which is 47,000 forints due to the government. So there is a very complex problem here that should be improved both with the care fee and with the kindergarten. The LMP will provide legal assistance, and I would like the empty government benches to address this issue. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm, pointing to Mónika Bartos and Péter Ovádi, sitting side by side in the pro-government benches: Mónika and Péter don't matter?]]
u2018-07-17-194	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ungár. After the agenda, Ms Andrea Varga-Damm, from the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of Depopulation of the villages.
u2018-07-17-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is also a mania, the slowing down of the depopulation of villages in some way, because we can already see that it cannot be frustrated. An American anthropologist said it took a whole village to raise a child. This is a wonderful saying, because I really think it myself, and I even believe that the most beautiful and effective form of upbringing is when a child grows up in a village. A child in a village is really raised by the whole village. A child in the village finds all the character, all the personality, all the situation in life, all the conflicts and pleasures that he can wonderfully build up in his own little personality, in his own small world, the patterns of behavior and the ability to adapt, which will make it much easier for him to endure life's difficulties and success throughout his life. When you look at an adult child in a village and compare it to, say, a child in the city centre, you see that the adult child in the village is braver, more self-conscious, lighter, unsurpassed in relation to nature, and much more likely to find a solution, more creative, and with everything that nature has taught him in such a community, it is much easier to cope with in life. And what do we see in Hungary in the last 30-40 years? In 1800 settlements there are fewer than 1000 inhabitants. In the case of dwarf villages, the population has decreased by 71 percent since 1970. In 1990, 30 percent of households lived in villages, in 2011 40 percent of villages were single households. Only 29 percent of the active people in the villages work in active employment, while others are maintained either by pensions, other benefits, or by community service. Between 1990 and 2001, the number of uninhabited houses in the villages increased by 8 percent, and since then the depopulation and the number of empty houses were no longer allowed to be asked. I think it is very important that we invent programs that make this huge value, such as living in the village and growing up in the villages, figure it out. I would not like it now, although the government would give me a reason to ask why, after 8 plus 4 years of governance, there are no complex programmes yet, but rather my proposal is what is very important on this issue. On the one hand, programmes should have been established long ago to make it tax-free, for example, in villages with a population less than a thousand inhabitants, if someone bought a married property. It would have been possible to start programs to expand family homes in the villages for new generations, and the state grants subsidies for this. It could have been created that businesses in certain settlements below the size of the population would not have paid taxes for 2-3 years if their entrepreneurial activities meant serving the population. A wide range of programmes would be available. It would be possible to create grandparents' programs, how families with children and elderly families can work together, thus not burdening the kindergarten, school, nursery system. So it would be a library of programs. We could also take samples from abroad, but I still feel that when the government says that it is trying to do this and that it is doing this, it cannot be effective enough, because depopulation is experiencing a terrible pace. Of course, it can also be said that it is not a goal for free people to live, so that the freedom given to live in the village can generally be maintained by society. However, I think that it would be very important for us that, by linking this wonderful opportunity, the possibility of growing up in the village and freedom, we must do everything we can to stop the depopulation of the villages, and even to start the growth of the population. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-07-17-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. I give the floor to the Fidesz MEP Péter Ovádi, who will address the large-scale presidential victories in the interim elections of the last few weeks. [[18.10]]
u2018-07-17-197	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor, and thank you very much, because in recent weeks there have been a number of interim elections in Hungary. The election, as we know, is always a celebration of democracy. That was the case on April 8th, and so it has been in the last few weeks. The interim elections that have taken place over the past period prove that Hungarian people do insist on their decision in April and continue to vote in confidence for the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP. Let me mention, for example, Budapest VIII. a district interim mayor election, where the candidate of the governing party gave 62 percent of his opponents or 67 percent of his success in the V. district, but we could talk about the election that took place this Sunday in Miskolc or Sopron, where in both cases the candidates of the governing parties closed with a result of well over 70 percent. Of course, I am very proud that, two days ago, Áron Kovács, the candidate for representative of the local government of Fidesz-KDNP, who had left behind the only candidate of the opposition in the 8th single-government constituency, which I previously represented, with more than 80 percent of the votes, was a huge victory in Veszprém. This is also a historic victory, since no one has won an election in Veszprém since 1990 with such a difference. The voters voted to continue the work that the city administration started 12 years ago. They voted that the political composition of the body of representatives should not change, and that they need a representative who represents their interests locally, is available and works for them. We can safely say that in Veszprém there has been a great deal of investment in the 8th single mandate constituency over the years, and this trend will continue in the future. Veszprém is gradually preparing to place himself on the international cultural scene. We hope that in 2023 we will be able to welcome our visitors as the holder of the title of the European Capital of Culture. This project will also be supported by the development of the Modern Cities programme. But it's not just the cultural line where we want to further enhance our city's reputation. In 2022, the Veszprém Arena will be one of the venues of the European Handball Championship. We look forward and believe that a rural city can be internationally successful by working together. I sincerely congratulate the winners of the interim elections and wish them good and effective work for the future. Go, Veszprém! Thank you for listening.
u2018-07-17-198	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ovadi. Dear Parliament, Mr István Szávay, notary, from the Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech: I am Croatian, so I am Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2018-07-17-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to be true Hungarians so that we can become good Croatians. I'm Croatian, so I'm Hungarian! Mr. Miklós Zrínyi, the poet, politician and general, who can be proud and rightly held by both peoples in his long history of great figures. The history of Hungary and Croatia has been connected for more than 800 years because the two peoples lived side by side. Our rulers, acquired by our King Saint László, have never seen us as a country to be conquered, eviscerated, as soon as possible, but as a country and as a co-gent. It is no coincidence that Croatia has always enjoyed a certain degree of autonomy within the Hungarian crown, and the Croatians themselves have actively taken part in achieving our great national goals. It is enough to refer only to the historical role of the already mentioned Zrinyi or the Frangepans, who are otherwise related to them. Although the intrications of the Habsburgs and the fantasies of the South Slavic unity have been able to put us against each other for a short time, the interdependence, the love of freedom and the desire for independence were all the stronger after 1990, since Hungary was among the first to provide active help to Zagreb, who was fighting for his freedom, and first to recognise the new independent Croatian state. Obviously, we should not be surprised at the fact that the Hungarians cheered for the Croatian national team as almost one person a few days ago. And even though the 2018 World Football Championship Final was finally defeated by our neighbors, they won the love and appreciation of all of us with their dazzling game, endurance, humility and amazing willpower. I would also like to congratulate them, from the Hungarian Parliament, on the best result so far in Croatian football history, in winning world championship silver. In addition to the two former Czechoslovakians and the two Hungarian silver medals, Croatia gained its silver. We hope that the World Championship trophy will soon arrive in our narrower region. If so, we hope that the Hungarians from abroad will be able to follow that tournament through Hungarian broadcasts available to everyone, which the Hungarian government has been promising to solve for many years. Dear Parliament, However, the great result is somewhat overshadowed by the fact that Croatian football is surrounded by corruption scandals as well as by Hungarians, and many tens of thousands of Croatian fans thought that the only way to effectively protest against this was to stand openly against the Croatian football team. But it is just as sad that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself can also be a part of the series of corruption scandals affecting Croatian football, at least through his personal stróman, Lőrinc, who is building a stadium in Osijek for the local football club he bought. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, as the outgoing vice-president of the Hungarian-Croatian branch of the Interparlamental Union, I cannot ignore the fact that the importance of Croatia in Hungarian Balkan policy has been seriously devalued in recent years. Viktor Orbán and Hungarian diplomacy strive for the most warm relations with Belgrade and emphasize historic reconciliation, which is still trying to change the ethnic composition of the southern settlements of Hungary through the introduction of Albanian gypsies in Kosovo. We are pursuing a one-sided gesture policy with Serbia, which does not give territorial autonomy to our part of the nations that have been torn apart in Trianon, but even wants to severely reduce the powers of the national councils which otherwise have limited cultural autonomy. On several occasions, we have indicated on Jobbik that we, of course, consider good Hungarian-Serbian relations to be important, but in this connection, we should clearly state the issues from which the Hungarian party cannot allow. This is what territorial autonomy should be like. According to Jobbik, there is no reason for MOL's long distance to be so devalued by Croatia, who is otherwise rather generous in relation to local Hungarians. Of course, we also consider it important to resolve the problem as soon as possible, but also to eliminate the unilateral imbalance of Hungarian foreign policy, not to mention that it does not bring any results to the Hungarians in the south. Even if a referendum initiative intends to reduce the representation and powers of indigenous national communities in Croatia in an unacceptable way. In this regard, we trust President Grabar-Kitarović, Prime Minister Plenković, and the common sense of Croatian political parties. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian and Croatian nations lived in a common home for eight centuries. I ask the Parliament and the Government not to forget this and to strive for the best possible relations between our countries. The Jobbik will give you all the support you need. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-17-200	Thank you, Congressman Savay, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 2 p.m. on Friday. Meeting day's closed.
