u2018-12-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 27th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce the event of the death of our fellow Member, Ferenc Hirt, who died in the 51st year of his life. Ferenc Hirt was born in Tamási, Tolna county, and for four cycles he was a Member of Parliament in the region. He started his political career in 2005, then obtained his mandate at the 2006 parliamentary elections, in the colors of Fidesz, in the 5th Constituencies of Tolna County. From 2007 he was president of the Fidesz Tolna County Constituencies, and from 2010 to 2014 he also served as municipal representatives of Tamási City. During his time in the Parliament, he worked as a member of the Committees on Youth, Social and Family Affairs, Enterprise Development, Welfare and Legislative Affairs, and as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Pension and Older Affairs, Equal Opportunities and Disabilities. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in the hall stand up and pay taxes on the place of the representatives of Ferenc Hirt.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, head of the group, applied for a pre-meeting speech on the part of the MSZP. It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2018-12-10-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, On Saturday, trade unions and tens of thousands of people [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruder from Fidesz: Ooh!]] He told you that was enough. That's enough of the alienated Fidesz elite's feat of power, enough of cynicism, enough of the masquerades, enough of the slave law, enough of the multitasking, enough of the chase of CEU and young people, enough of the acceptance of criminal buddies. By excluding the Hungarian people from the main square of the country. By putting thousands on the street. You want to make a decision about Hungarian workers without even asking them. From 1 January, cafeteria supplies will be abolished, school support will be abolished, travel discounts will be abolished, and now they want to force Hungarian workers to work 400 hours, and in three years they will see whether or not they will pay this money. Your prime minister said it's not about steering, whether you like it or not, I'm gonna smack him, shove him down his throat, either way, I'm gonna do it anyway. He said the government's job was to side with people. Dear fellow Members, Fidesz, I'm sure you've read the poll that 83 percent of the working age population reject this slave law. What was your prime minister talking about? How are they on the side of the Hungarian people? How are they on the side of Hungarian workers? They're not standing. You guys made a dirty, secret deal with the big money, the multinationals. You will deliver the Hungarian workers, the Hungarian workers, and you will fall for the propaganda that the worker will say no? They order overtime. With the Labour Code, they took away union rights. It is also in this draft legislation that trade unions will not have the opportunity to help Hungarian workers. They put Hungarian workers in a vulnerable position, who will not be able to decide otherwise than to apply this slave law. An interesting scene took place at the protest, when a reporter from your propaganda machine, the television owned by Lőrinc Mészáros, asked why they were here, why they were protesting. And I asked you back if you, Echo TV, had your employer order the 400-hour overtime a year, and then three years later you decide whether or not to pay you this money, you'll stay with Echo TV. He said, "That's a good question. It is about you not knowing what a worker's life and fate is like when he is in such a vulnerable situation. Fellow Members! Your conscience, if any, will you speak at this time? Do you know what they do to Hungarian people, how they throw them at the feet of the capital? My fellow Members, today, I have tabled 2925 amendments to the agenda with several fellow Group leaders, my fellow Member. I heard that at the committee meeting, they made a decision completely out of house and unconstitutional. You know, fellow Members, the vote on this 2925 motion would take 150 hours. Try to see what it's like to work 150 hours more, as you would force Hungarian workers to do! [[László Varju: Not 400, only 150!]] I want you to work 150 hours more. Don't run away from the task. What you are planning is against house rules, unconstitutional, it is your duty to vote on these proposals. There will be a moment of truth on Wednesday. It is decided whether you are on the side of the multinationals or whether you are on the side of the Hungarian workers. Work 150 hours and make your decision. For our future together, for a just Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2018-12-10-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, As for Kossuth Square, it was you who surrounded Kossuth Square with a cordon. [[An uproar in the ranks of MSZP and DK. Dr. Agnes Vadai: I had to, because the mob broke in!]] It's on Kossuth Square today, and only the laws should be observed. I regret that you, in principle as a democratic party, refuse to acknowledge this. Allow me to mention the circumstances and backgrounds of this amendment. One of the most important objectives of the civilian government has been from the beginning, so that everyone who wants and can work in Hungary can work. We have agreed to create a million jobs, and we are doing well on a pro rata basis, because more than 700 thousand of them have already been achieved. [[Interventions from opposition parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true!]] Yes, but it is not enough in itself that everyone has a job, because we also want to make it worth working in Hungary. This is served by inter alia sectoral wage increases, which are served by agreements between employers and employees, but other steps are needed. [[László Varju: The Secretary of State wage increases!]] Because in Hungary, people often want to work more and earn more [[Zsolt Gréczy: 200 percent ministerial salary increases!]] It has to play out bureaucratic rules. The purpose of the amendment to the Labour Code is to allow those who want to work more so that they can earn more. [[Lajos Rig: No! You can go to a second job.]] And we will remove bureaucratic obstacles. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Years later?]] The government therefore supports the possibility for workers to work voluntarily [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: What volunteer? What kind of volunteer?]] And so they can earn more...
u2018-12-10-4	Why is the small number of crowds buzzing? Why is it buzzing? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: Because I don't like what we're hearing! Continued intervention from opposition parties.]] Please, Mr. Secretary, continue; and if you would be so kind as to be quiet and listen to what the Secretary of State has to say, see if you can get smarter in the end. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We don't listen! László Varju: We'll get the president out of here.]]
u2018-12-10-5	We therefore support the possibility for workers to work voluntarily so that they can earn more. However, one thing is worth clarifying: the employee's consent is always required. The aim is therefore unchanged: full employment and higher wages, i.e. restoring the honour of work. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] [[13.40]] In this case, your speech is quite persuasive. Why weren't they enslaved when they sold the Hungarian industry for tobacco to foreign companies, by guaranteeing them profits in a contract, while large companies were being dismantled, such as in the case of the Mátra Power Plant? [[Noise, interrogations from the opposition benches. Timea Szabó: You give everything to István Tiborcz and Lőrinc Mészáros!]] Why didn't you slave me when you took a month's wages or when you put hundreds of thousands on the street? [[It's constant noise.]] Or when you doubled unemployment? There was more than 12 percent unemployment in this country. Where were you, honourable Member, slavery at a time when the difference between minimum wage and aid was so small that there was no incentive for anyone to work rather than aid? [[Intervention on the opposition side: We have the highest tax on minimum wage!]] Where was the slavery then? We are aware that you consider Hungarian workers to be slaves. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] But it remains a fact that during this period of government hundreds of thousands of new jobs have been created [[Interventions from opposition benches, including: Where? London?]] average wage level increased by more than 30 percent [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: In terms of your wages!]] The minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum wage for skilled workers, has doubled, and if it is up to the government, it will continue to grow, because we would not, by chance, like to say that we have reached the desired level either in terms of job creation or in terms of wages, still need to take further steps. So, allow me to say that their weekend manifestation and the fact is that their current heat wave is proof that the MSZP is still unable to offer a meaningful, real proposal to those who want to move forward with work in Hungary. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Don't blame us for the fact that the left didn't just turn its back on its own base in Hungary, on the work and on the pay! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You betrayed your own voters, the workers on the right! Noise in the lines of MSZP, DK, Dialogue.]] In the sea of their thoughtlessness, they have only one concrete proposal: basic income, which would be virtually aid without work. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Intervention on the opposition side: You went back to the '30s!]] and for our part, we do not want to go back to the past either because there are millions of Hungarian people working in it. [[Constant murmurs, interruptions from the lines of MSZP, DK, Dialogue, LMP. Agnes Kunhalmi: Fasistoid government!]] that this country, this country's economy, is stronger than it was in 2010. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Congresswoman Kunhalmi, We've already seen the left-wing leaders put on a yellow vest a few days ago. We think it is an excellent initiative, at least to see from a distance, at least to see who has done nothing for the people who have been working in recent years. Unemployment has been doubled, real wages have been allowed to fall during their administration, and the country has almost been sold above our heads. We don't want to see this again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-6	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your patience and perseverance, and I would like to call on the opposition representatives to be civilised in this House's dignity. [[An uproar in the ranks of MSZP, DK, Dialogue, LMP.]] Force it on themselves. I know it's hard, but try to make it work sometime. Now I give the floor to Thomas Pintér, a better representative: " Whoever votes yes betrays his people! " he will give his comment. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The situation is quite simple: anyone who votes yes to the slave law on Wednesday will betray his people. [[Intercoms from Jobbik, MSZP, DK, among them: That's right! That's it. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] You want to drive the Hungarian people into slavery! [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You are traitors to every one of you!]] It is astounding what Lajos Kósa said after the meeting a week ago that they also want to put into law that without these trade unions, people can be forced to work overtime. It's outrageous that they want to increase overtime from 250 hours to 400 hours. [[Zoltán Tessely: Learn to read!]] It's amazing, because it would force two-handed workers to work for ten hours a day, or to work overtime on Saturdays, and the fact that you want to legislate on the fact that people are willing to give up their overtime, so to speak. But who's the man who wants to give up the money he's earned these days? Who would voluntarily give up this money? I'll tell you who it is: the man who fears for his work, the man who signs anything in order to keep his schedule. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The Jobbiks.]] And do you know what the most insufferable thing is? Your argument, when they say in this House, is that they are doing all this to make more money, because, let alone make more money, they are being ripped away from their families, they are being taken away from their children, their wives, their husbands, and they are ruining their health. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] By doing so, they will achieve that those people will say no to your policy by leaving Hungary. It is amazing that you support the multinationals again instead of the interests of the Hungarian people. You guys have taken your final vote for the multinationals. On the other hand, you should finally represent the people who sent you here. At last, stand on the side of the people. Get on the side of the unions. Strengthen Trade Unions [[Dr. Bence Retvári: Is that what we're hearing from Jobbik?!]] or review strategic partnership contracts with multi-companies and abolish them or even rewrite them. But you know what? We also offer the opportunity to establish a minimum employee with the consent of all parties, but the most important thing is that you do not vote for this amendment, there is nothing to discuss here. Quite simply, you must not vote for this slave law either, because people must finally take sides instead of multinationals. And, you know, what I'd like to do is, whoever votes for this amendment of the law, I'd throw the table over it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't threaten me!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: Don't threaten me!]] But of course I won't, but people will. (Nacsa Lawrence: Don't threaten me!) People will do so, because they will go ahead and say that they will not be slaves, because they cannot be separated from their families, and they will tell you, fellow Members, that 2019 will not be the year of slaves. Think carefully about my words and do not vote for this slave law on Wednesday. [[Zoltán Tessely: Have you read it? Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-12-10-8	Secretary of State Sándor Bodo, please.
u2018-12-10-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman! Dear House, Legislative amendment relating to the organisation of working time [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] it aims to change the current rules on working time, the conditions for better application of the working time framework, because in a number of economic areas there has been a problem that the current legislation is not appropriate for the position of workers in a different working order. We need a legislative framework that is capable of creating working conditions adapted to the current economic environment. The honourable Member is alarming me by betraying the people, but, in view of the facts, it must be seen that this is completely unfounded. The government's almost a decade-long employment policy and the legislative framework for it are indisputably successful. The fact that the number of unemployed has been making negative records for many years has been said many times, the minimum wage has increased radically, the average wages are increasing significantly and steadily as a result of the operation of the economy. Dear fellow Members, Instead of making accusations, please listen to our answers and accept the facts in them and consider them. The government has always been the government of job creation, we have always been aware and we are now paying attention to the workers, without whom the development of the economy is, of course, unimaginable. By amending the rules on the organisation of working time, we are not trying to radically change the existing legislation, but to adapt it to the right circumstances. We have recognised that businesses need tools to work properly. The government therefore supports the possibility for workers to work voluntarily and to earn more. According to the proposal, no new obligations will be added to the Labour Code compared to previous rules, higher hours of overtime and longer working hours as an option. [[Interviews from the ranks of MSZP, DK.]] I stress that it will be possible to include it in the legislation, which will require the consent of the worker and the provision of a collective agreement. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that overtime cannot be included in the working time schedule, precisely in view of its exceptional nature. It is the joint responsibility of all Members of Parliament to consider sound thinking, circumstances and opportunities, including the creation of legislation that serves the interests of both workers and employers. Those who vote 'yes', honourable Member, create opportunities for the proper functioning of the economy, including the world of work. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-10	Next up is Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group with a title entitled "On Current Affairs." Here you go. [[13.50]]
u2018-12-10-11	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Today is the World Day of Human Rights, and you and Viktor Orbán intend to celebrate this by forcing millions of Hungarians to work more than two and a half months a year. Let us start by saying that you, Members of the Fideszes-KDNP, want to increase overtime to 400 hours when you do not even work on working time. Look around, we're missing half the Fidesz and KDNP fractions. Where are you Monday at 1:00? Why aren't they working? ! Then they say that Hungarian people want to work more? Don't be ridiculous. They want to increase the annual overtime limit to 400 hours, which is now 250 hours. Are you aware that this, counting eight hours a day, is going to force millions of workers to work on Saturdays for 50 days a year, or virtually every week? Because, you know, there are 52 weeks in a week, and you want people to work every Saturday for 50 weeks. Let Hungarian workers work six days a week so that they will receive this either in cash or in overtime three years later! ? In English, if you work overtime in January 2019, you will get something for it in 2022 or not. Of course, only if you do not rewrite the law to get nothing, or if the person is still in the country and does not run away with the additional 600 thousand other youths, or if that unfortunate worker is still alive. Because while you guys talk about the year of families in a stomach-stricken way, hundreds of thousands of families will be ruined because of the slave bill. They're gonna jump in, 'cause with all the work that's been going on for six days a week, because of the stress, hundreds of thousands of people are gonna get sick. We are leading Europe for a reason, government representatives, cancerous deaths and infarct deaths because Hungarians are already overworking, stressing most in Europe, so unfortunately they die prematurely in this way of life. But you're also beating up families because fathers and mothers aren't going to be together with their children. Who are they gonna leave their kids to every Saturday anyway? But they won't even be able to open the door to their old parents. You're gonna beat hundreds of thousands of families with the slave bill, destroy it. Of course, once again, the pro-government smudge will come in response to how voluntary this is, and how you are the government of job creation, and before those who want to work, you simply want to remove the obstacles, because it is voluntary. Volunteer, huh? ! Sure. It's so voluntary that let's say a single mother dares to contradict her boss when she tries to force her to work overtime, right? There'll be threats of firing, sanctions, but the least you can do is not get, say, a bonus. And what does a single mother choose at this time? It means he's got a baby, and he doesn't dare risk getting kicked out of work. If you think it's so good here, pro-government representatives, that everyone wants to work overtime, except for you, of course, because you're not here yet, then why did you run away from 600,000 young people in Hungary? And besides, tell me why hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are forced to work more! Because you, Viktor Orbán and his government, deliberately keep wages low in Hungary and trample the inside of the workers, while getting the unearned rewards on the top ten thousand lines. During their government, the single-key tax has made the smallest earners even poorer. Early retirement was taken away, forcing 60-year-old cops to run after criminals and 65-year-old firefighters to enter the burning house. In Europe, your government is paying unemployment benefits for the shortest time, and your government has imposed the highest tax on the minimum wage in Europe. And why is that? So that you and Viktor Orbán can renovate Mexican churches for 2 billion forints? Are you guys crazy? ! Man's mind is made up of this kind of government! This new slave law affects everyone, not just multi-workers, not just those working in the Audi and factories, but everyone, the police, the nurses, the teachers, the cashiers of the malls, the public employees. Everybody! You want to destroy 4 million Hungarian workers. My fellow members of the Government! We were all at the protest on Saturday. These people aren't kidding. There may be only 10,000 people now, but next time there'll be 100,000 people, and the roads will be blocked, just like they're closing today. We're in the Dialogue and in the MSZP-Palogue Association with the employees, not with you guys, no-brainers. We support the workers. Take it back! I want this bill revoked.
u2018-12-10-12	I ask you, Congresswoman, to choose your words, because I will exclude you from this meeting. Mr. Sándor Bodó, State Secretary.
u2018-12-10-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Parliament. Fellow Members! Well, that's gonna make it hard for us to have a meaningful debate. [[There's a constant murmur on the opposition side.]] I would like to draw your attention to the very concrete reality that a single mother has not yet been able to and can not be obliged to work overtime. [[Szabó Timea: Oh, where do you live?]] Be kind and clarify these stories when writing these texts. In the context of working time regulation, we have heard from the Dialogue Organisation, and in recent years we have been informed through the press that they will draw up their own proposals and wish to call against the introduction of a six-day working week. Well, Congresswoman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is neither a rule nor an obligation to work on a Saturday. The present proposal does not aim to change the rules of the Labour Code on the general working schedule, under which the employer has to assign working time to five days, Monday to Friday. I'm sure you're aware that many occupations have to be carried out in a different order from general. Perhaps you've been to a shopping mall or theater on weekends, where you've met those tellers, bus drivers, projector operators, without whom life would stop on a Saturday or Sunday. And he may have turned on the lights back home on the weekend, when he might have remembered that electricity generation would require a continuous operation, which is linked to continuous work. Those who know the world of work know that these occupations are subject to special rules, so the weekend work cannot be eliminated either by legislation or by referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government never intended to reduce the free time of workers, never intended to expand the workforce that had to work on weekends. In fact, you may remember the months from 2015 and 2016 when the shops were closed on Sunday. The government has precisely sought to provide a wide range of workers, trade workers, with more rest periods under the legislation. Congresswoman, against Sunday's closure, the opposition acted unanimously, and you unanimously demanded that the system of Sunday's closure be amended. The proposal before us, as we have already said, does not constitute an additional obligation for any employee. Although the opposition would like to make it appear that six days after the adoption of the law will be mandatory for everyone, this statement is not true. Employees in the general working order will continue to be assigned from Monday to Friday, and if they undertake, they can work extra overtime over previous hours. Therefore, additional extraordinary work can only be assigned with the voluntary consent of workers. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that extraordinary work can only be ordered in exceptional cases. There is no possibility for the employer to regularly include overtime in the working hours in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and For the benefit of workers, I would also ask you to read carefully the current amended text of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-14	Now it's time for Agnes Vadai, a member of DK. It's an address. The word belongs to Agnes of Vada.
u2018-12-10-15	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It's amazing that an entire country was outraged by the slave law. When people go out on the street when nine out of ten people think that this law cannot be adopted, when people are preparing for half-track road closures across the country, it is not a matter of one or two people's problems or of an isolated social group, but it is clear that this issue affects the majority of Hungarian society. We're talking about the country's problem here. You are fighting against your own country! [[14.00]] You want to sell your own countrymen with the slave law. Trade unions, workers and a lot of people in this country have made it clear that they want to be free people as European Hungarians, not slaves. Understand, fellow Members, they too want to go home to their families, and not all day, from morning to evening, to go to the factory on weekends, and to work there constantly. I understand that the Orbán family is the most important thing for you. But accept that the most important thing for others is their own family, they want to spend time with their children, with their grandparents. [[Gergely Harvester: That's right.]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, let us face it, they want to adopt this law against the people without even being regular. It wasn't even legal! If the Parliament votes on this bill on Wednesday, it is obviously illegal. After all, the general debate of this bill is not over. Of course, Vice-President Sándor Lezsák may have got tired of working at a moment's notice, and he did not think he was working overtime, but he did not do his job, and he silenced the opposition representatives or gave them nothing; for I, for example, did so. However, my fellow Members, the general debate on this bill has not ended. If the general debate of a bill has not ended, then it cannot be voted on. So why don't you guys come into Parliament and argue? Mr Secretary of State wanted a substantive debate. Well, that's what we wanted, but they just stopped him, and he wasn't here, and he didn't say anything about it. What we see is that you don't have a problem with 400 hours of overtime, that's not a problem. You didn't want to work your own normal hours because you decided to be tired or bored or distracted by what was going on in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand if it's confusing. But make sure you choose another occupation. The big deal is that we're sitting here arguing about certain issues. It's an absurd story, and it's absolutely insufferable, that while they refuse to work here, they're just gonna throw overtime at the people. It is difficult to understand, but we see it, and we see it every day that you think that the Hungarians are droids; they are assembly droids in a assembly plant, in a assembly Hungarian economy. But, fellow Members, over the last eight years, there has been a great deal of European Union resources in Satan, from which the Hungarian economy could have been put on its own feet, but it has not succeeded. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] Colleagues, luxury castle, that's what it is. Private jet, that's what. Luxury yacht, that's what. Dropped shitty diapers, that's what's going on, and that's okay. Gucci bag, that's fine. Wandering around Vienna to buy a Christmas present, that's okay. But fair, the code of work that protects the employee doesn't exist, because you don't like it. Because they prefer luxury, but they do not like it when it comes to matters that really determine the life of Hungarian society. You have been driving the Hungarians out of this country for years. I don't know, don't you experience it? They didn't meet anyone whose children or the whole family are already abroad, and they can only talk to Skype because they're leaving. You think this law is gonna keep people at home? Or will they come back from abroad? No, fellow Members. The truth is, people who have worked at home will be more concerned about how to leave the country. It's a loss for all of us, no matter who they vote for, it's a loss for all of us. Because the Hungarian who leaves this country is going to be very difficult to come home to. You, fellow Members, have proved one thing: you know nothing but the breakdown of democracy and theft. They don't know shit about anything. The truth is, in recent years, we have seen that this incompetence has always been wrapped up in all sorts of nice-name programs; Kisfaludy program, I don't know, lots of programs. You may remember, two weeks ago, I spoke to you about the operation of the prison trip. Now, the big deal, my fellow Members, is that what you have been doing here in recent years is that the road is operating under the prison programme. And taste it... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2018-12-10-16	Congresswoman, please gather yourself and choose your words. [[There's a lot of noise on the opposition side.]] Would you please stop yelling and stop insulting your fellow Members? I won't stand for this anymore. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Could you repeat that, Mr. President? I didn't hear you.]] All right, listen up. Please end the systematic insulting of your fellow Members once and for all. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I didn't insult you.]] Yes, I do. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Would anyone from the government like to respond to this speech? Sándor Bodó is the brave Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, for many times now, we can hear these alarming sentences before the agenda, and I think that the credibility of this is highly questionable from you, Madam Congresswoman. It outlines a description of the Hungarian economy here, which is not at all the case, and the opposite is the reality. Allow me to keep you informed of some specific data. I recommend to you the January-September national economy data that will filter out the impact of the methodological change in 2018. In particular, 39 thousand people and 56,000 people in the competition sector have increased the number of people who work. So what you've said is that there's an exodus and all kinds of alarms are lacking. The public sector without public employees has increased by 10,000. The number of public workers decreased by 39 thousand in the first nine months. From this it is clear that companies are confident, think about increasing numbers and develop partnerships with employees. Of course, this also has an impact on wages. It can be seen that in January-September, the national average gross salary was 324 thousand forints, and in the competition sector it reached 335 thousand forints. Net earnings are rising at the same rate as gross wages, while net real earnings have increased for 69 months. I don't know what you're talking about, Congresswoman, but this is the reality of today's labour market. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2018-12-10-18	Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group:. The betrayal of Hungarian workers. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think, hearing the debate so far, that we are now witnessing one of the rare moments where the outrage of my fellow opposition Members is entirely justified. And the tone that they apply is also justified, even if not everyone agrees with their needs. I can also say in this case that, although there is much in common between the various opposition parties, there is no shame in saying that I am not ashamed to say that I agree with the opposition representatives who have spoken before me. It is a very symbolic question in many ways. Where is Congressman Lajos Kósa, the petitioner of the slave law? Where's the author? [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] Mr. Lajos Kósa doesn't do his overtime, but he doesn't even do his job. It is also symbolic that about half of the pro-government representatives are present on such an important bill during the debate before the agenda. They don't do their job, let alone take overtime, but they don't even come to work at the right time. You, the representatives of the government, try to wash the opposition together in your answers and create cynical lies. I agree perfectly with Mrs Szabó Timea, by the way, and I think that it was extremely important and messageful that, in addition to trade unions, all opposition parties participated in the protest on Saturday. I, too, hope that next time instead of the ten thousand or ten thousand protests, we will be meeting hundreds of thousands of protests. It is in our common national interest to prevent the adoption of this outrageous bill. The LMP will also fight with all its means to make this happen. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You would like to adopt this certain slave law in a lie, cynical procedure and in contempt of all relevant written and unwritten rules. This fits perfectly with your policy since 2010. It has been proven in several cases that you have faced the Hungarian people, faced the Hungarian workers and represent only the interests of multinational companies. The essence of your economic policy is that they want to encourage investment for vulnerable Hungarian workers who are deprived of the opportunity to assert their interests and who are working for cheap wages. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spoke about a Hungarian model of economic policy here in Parliament recently. I think it is a shame to talk about a Hungarian model here, so I propose to the Prime Minister, I propose to the Government, and I also recommend to my fellow members of the Government that they talk about the Orbán model when they want to encourage investment on the basis of the evisceration of the workforce. As my opposition colleagues have said, you have caused enormous damage to the nation. This economic policy has led us to break down in terms of wages already within the region. There is a serious wage crisis, with the direct consequence that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen were forced to migrate out of compulsion. In the year of families, it should be pointed out that thousands or even tens of thousands of families have been permanently torn apart because of your policies and the impact of forced emigration. [[14.10]] Obviously, the impact of this policy is also the serious lack of labour that appears and is obviously why they are trying to enforce this slave law, but this will also have exactly what we have already experienced: it will increase migration. It is no coincidence that if we look at different researches, there is an increasing proportion of those who are planning to leave now. So what I can say again is that it is in our common national interest to prevent this outrageous bill, and I thank and congratulate everyone who participated in the demonstration on Saturday, and I urge everyone, trade unions, interest representatives and all opposition parties, to have a real national unity in this matter, and to use all means to ensure that this outrageous amendment of the law cannot be accepted by the government in accordance with its options. Thank you.
u2018-12-10-20	Mr. Sándor Bodó has the floor again.
u2018-12-10-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! The proposal on the Labour Code aims to amend the current rules on working time, as appropriate, rules that have otherwise existed for decades. Extraordinary work or work in the framework of working time is not an invention of the Hungarian government; these tools are used not only in Hungary but in many places in the world where organized work is carried out. Working time is a priority among working conditions, it is quite clear. According to the current law, the employer and the employee agree, at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, that the employment relationship will be created for full-day employment or that work will take place for a different duration. Within 15 days, the employer shall inform the worker in writing, inter alia, of his or her working time, and later, if he or she wishes to make provision for working time, also provide written information. Extraordinary work, as its name shows, can only be ordered in exceptional situations. Honourable Congressman, During the debate on the proposal, it has been said many times that there is room for untied work arrangements to be modified. Well, overtime will not be included in the working time schedule after the adoption of the proposal, precisely because of its exceptional nature. Therefore, it will still not be possible for the employer to impose overtime, whether legally or regularly in advance, in the working hours, for each day. We have also repeated many times that according to the Hungarian labour law rules, the employer is always obliged to ensure the conditions of non-healthy and safe work. A worker should only be employed for work that has no adverse health consequences. The employer is also obliged to adapt the work schedule accordingly in view of the change in the health of the worker. In Hungary, the employer is obliged to provide the employee with a job fitness check free of charge at regular intervals prior to entry into work. The draft law does not affect all these rules; there are still all obligations and guarantees relating to working time arrangements. However, if the proposal is adopted, there will be a change in the agreement between the employer and the employee in order to agree on more overtime. They can also do this without limit, we can talk about an additional 150 hours on an annual basis and an additional 100 hours on a collective agreement. The development of the Hungarian economy is obviously closely linked to the functioning of the world economy. Global production trends, whether we want it or not, also affect domestic businesses. In view of these, work may have to be organised in a different way than before, but this can only be done by the employer at the workplace in agreement with the employee in question. The same applies to the establishment of the length of the working time frame. Domestic businesses should also follow the production cycles resulting from the operation of the world economy. On the workers' side, this also brings positive results, since such a production process can result in guaranteed jobs of a longer duration. The collective agreement can only fix such a longer working time frame on the basis of the unanimous will of the parties, so it can be said here that, without the decision and agreement of the workers, no change can be made here compared to the previous rules. Let me reiterate that the proposal does not impose any new obligations on the labour code compared to previous rules. As an option, the higher number of overtime and the longer working time limit will be highlighted: it will be an option in the legislation, and the employee's consent is always required for the application of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-22	The leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-23	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the end of the session, perhaps it is appropriate to look back on what has happened in the past, and such a summary and speech must, of course, be objective. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] in the tone of the dignity of Parliament. First, let us look at the issues that have affected the fundamental aspirations of the government side. The most important issue for us is the population situation and support for families. Here we should mention the national consultation, which is one of the most democratic institutions [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] ; we need to talk about the CSOK as a generous support for home creation, its possible expansion, or the acquisition of ownership under the asset manager. I think that during such a short period of time this has been quite a lot of measures. The other issue is more of a foreign policy nature: the protection of national sovereignty. We imagine the European Union as an alliance of free nations, and to this end we have fought with those who think in a kind of European united states. The issue of self-defense on migration must be mentioned as a fundamental and unchangeable item, but at the same time it is equally unchangeable to help people in need of help. We believe that help should be given where the problem arose: locally; to this end, two institutions that are important will work. We know that the secretary of state assisting persecuted Christians operates under the leadership of a Christian Democratic State Secretary, and that Hungary Helps will be implemented under a separate law, also we hope, under the responsible leadership of a Christian Democrat. Even an ideological or rather worldview issue must be addressed, the protection of normality, which is happening in the face of European deviants. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Let's just think about what gender madness does. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Or the destruction of the community, to the destruction of families, church communities and nations. And to say a few words about everyday matters: the wage increase that many people are trying to deny is based on facts, and the fact is a 36 percent real wage increase since 2010. Think about the current and planned wage growth of doctors and workers in health care, but I could also mention a 30% increase in public sector wages. Among the social issues, we consider it important to increase the care fee and a solution to the homeless issue, which gives the opportunity to provide decent care in the framework of a well-functioning, obviously not perfect, care system. We must speak of course, if only in terms of GDP growth, i.e. the state of the economy: where this increase is 5.2 percent, it cannot be said that the economy is not in a good position. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Finally, allow me to mention something that I tried to mention in a rather subtle way at the beginning: the bottom of the political culture that is here in Parliament. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]] Alpári, insufferable style, alpári, insufferable style [[Intercom from the opposition: Lezszak!]] and from reality [[A statement from the opposition: What are you talking about? Shame on you.]] far different content. Even if some people put it at the service of party political interests, this is unacceptable. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Is it that they drown the word in opposition representatives?]] And finally, allow me to make one more comment... If the congresswoman yells a lot, I won't have time to tell you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] you might like this; I'll tell you next time. Have a nice day. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Agnes Kunhalmi and several opposition representatives intervene.]] [[14.20]]
u2018-12-10-24	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, again.
u2018-12-10-25	Dear Chief of Staff, I would like to respond to a priority point in your speech, namely the protection of families and family consultation. Supporting families is a priority for the government, because families are a fundamental community of society for us, and without strong families, not only Hungary, but the renewal of Europe is unimaginable. When a family is formed or when a child is married, when a child is born, it is one of the personal, private decisions in which the state has no say, and neither does the government, nor does politics in general. But it is good for everyone to know that if you decide to have a child, start a family, get married, you can expect a variety of support from the Hungarian government and, as planned, more in the future. Today, Hungary spends twice as much on family support as it did in 2010. With this, we are also in a high position in European comparison. Once again, the honourable Member has three years to live, which you have reduced to two years. There are significant tax breaks for families with children, which your party family, by the way, reduced when it was on the government. Here, I note that from January onwards, it will be worth HUF 40,000 a month for families with two children as a tax benefit. We introduced the ged extra, and the home creation program has already helped over 90,000 families. Since you have intervened, Congressman, I would like to remind you here that once you have abolished a well-functioning home creation programme. This led directly to foreign exchange lending. We know the consequences. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced him!]] And what is just as important for 2010 is that the number of crèches has increased by one and a half times. These steps may have contributed to the improvement of the willingness to have children in Hungary in recent years, but we do not want to stop here. As the economy is doing well, the family support system can be further expanded, and this is where the current family consultation comes in, which can also lay the foundations for future measures. Although you regularly attack the consultation institution, when you had the opportunity, when you were not in such a scattered state, Jobbik also launched a consultation, if I understand correctly, the Dialogue also launched a consultation, and sometimes the MSZP announces that it would consult, and then these initiatives die. In relation to the opposition, however, man is always a little more optimistic than he should be. We thought that at least we would expect substantive proposals on the family issue, at least in this one case they would remove the blinders, but we had to pay for another big disappointment. Congresswoman Bangóné has torn a questionnaire here in the Chamber, and the Gyurcsány Party has asked its supporters to fold paper picks, which is now the top performance of the opposition's family policy. But from this, honourable Members and ladies, there will be no stronger families, if it is up to the opposition. If you look at the content suggestions, well, it's not a great picture there either. A leader of the Gyurcsány Party also stated in writing that if there was a choice between supporting immigrants and supporting Hungarian families, he would spend money on immigration. [[Gergely Harvester: You're lying! You're actually lying! Zsolt Gréczy: He's lying! He's lying! He's lying!]] At least those are honest words, and we can relate to them. [[Noise.]] Let us not miss Jobbik, which, unfortunately, is slowly catching up with the MSZP in family policy. According to the faction leader, there is absolutely no need to consult on family support, no matter how much the government spends on family support, there is no result. That's what you said. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That was awesome! You did good.]] Dear House, A week and a half before the deadline for the consultation, the views and positions of almost all parties are clear and clear. Knowing the positions, we can say that the current family protection consultation can not only decide on future measures but also stand up for existing ones. Looking at the opposition action, we still need it. Because we do not want to decide on new and future family support measures so that the opposition will break them down in many years. They need to be protected, so it doesn't matter how many people are involved now. We would like to thank all those who have completed the questionnaire and sent it back on the Internet or in the mail; according to last week's summaries, nearly 800 000 people have already done so. At the same time, we urge everyone to express their views if they have not done so, because it is a matter that we would like to highlight from the usual internal political battles. Looking at the high number of participants, we have every hope for that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-26	Our last speaker before today's agenda will be Mr Zsolt Németh, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, on the subject of a serious threat to the UN Migration Package. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-27	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Today, representatives from countless countries are meeting on the UN migration package in Marrakesh, Morocco. In a week's time, this migration package is likely to be discussed by the UN General Assembly and is likely to be adopted. Hungary has already established its position on this package during the summer, in July. He declared the draft incorrigible, and in a government resolution Hungary quit this negotiation process. Why do we consider this text, this draft, to be dangerous? Firstly, the main objective is to shift illegal migration into legal channels. We also consider it dangerous because, instead of supporting countries of origin, it basically supports migration, the phenomenon of migration itself, and we also consider it extremely dangerous because security considerations are completely out of the way, and it approaches the phenomenon of migration exclusively from the point of view of human rights. What is the real danger, however, is that it seems that the application of this package is voluntary. Well, that's not the case. Given that such a standard is created by the UN, it will, on the one hand, affect international law and will have a clear influence on international judicial and judicial practice, so it is a matter of time before the mandatory nature of this soft norm is strengthened. However, there is good news. The international echo of this migration package has gradually changed since summer, and many countries have decided similarly to Hungary that they will not support this migration package. Which countries are we talking about? First of all, I would like to mention the United States; Japan, Australia, New Zealand are likely to act in the same way; Israel; but it is also a matter of whether South Africa will take a similar position. Many of the Member States of the European Union have taken the same position as Hungary, so it is Italy; and, of course, the Visegrád Four, the organisation whose division is emphasized today by many. Well, there is no division in this respect between the Visegrád Four. It takes a similar position in Austria, Latvia or Bulgaria. This weekend, we heard that in Belgium a government crisis arose, because one of the parties on government coalition decided to leave the government in the light of the migration package, and today the Belgian government is forced to govern in a minority. I believe that this is extremely positive news. Looks like the developed world is waking up. This awakening is similar to what we experienced in the 1980s after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, then a kind of nuclear awareness developed in the world. As we have seen, after the terrorist attacks in 2001, a terrorist awareness was created in international public opinion. Now, I think that in the last one or two years, especially as a result of the 2015 crisis, an international awareness of migration is emerging. I therefore consider, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary is on the right track, and Hungary is not alone in its position. It is becoming increasingly less and less isolated, and the position that Hungary represents is becoming more and more general, and the emphasis on this issue is extremely topical. [[14.30]] At the same time, we must be ready, because if the UN does accept this package, it will have a lot of tasks. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-28	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2018-12-10-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for bringing the issue of the UN Global Pact on Migration to this House. I believe that this case is a veterinary horse, which shows very well that, although there are more and more people in words who are critical of the migration processes that are taking place in the world now, with the exception of those Member States that you have mentioned and which are linked at the last minute, the leaders of international institutions and the institutions of the European Union continue to be committed to the migration processes that they have experienced in recent years, which they only want to strengthen and support. I have this document, and I have printed out the latest version that the UN Member States are planning to adopt in the near future, and I believe that we have no doubt that the majority of the UN Member States will accept this document. From the very beginning, we say that in the UN, if we look at it by continent, three quarters of the Member States represent a continent that is a continent that emits migration and only one quarter of the Member States that represent a host continent from a migration point of view. It follows that the whole document is revealing. The title of the document already expresses what this document would be about, what this document would be about, because the title of the document is:. Global compact for safe, orderly and regulated migration, not against migration, not for the security of countries, not for solving growing problems, but for migration. The document also sets out the framework for thinking. The document says that the availability and flexibility of regulated migration routes must be strengthened. He talks about border protection as a task related to the organisation of border management. It aims to ensure the free movement of migrants as much as possible and to limit it only in the most necessary cases. It aims to strengthen the social cohesion of migrants and indigenous people, so there is no mention of integration or perhaps assimilation. Moreover, it wishes to see the transfers of funds, and thus the economic forces behind migration, as an increasingly secure, cheaper and faster institutional system. There is no reference in this document to what the Hungarian Government thinks is important, that migration in its present form is not part of the solution, but the problem itself; that migration is not a question of human rights, but of the sovereignty of nations. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] ; that every country has the right to protect its borders and to help those who are forced to leave their homes to stay in their homes by means of genuine, joint measures. This document is therefore unacceptable to Hungary, and we will stay away from its adoption and agree to all EU Member States' initiatives which take the same view. One final remark, if you will allow me to respond to the debate that there is no mandatory document here. Today, 10 December, is the World Human Rights Day, celebrating the World Human Rights Day. Do you know why this is World Human Rights Day? Because the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10 December 1948, in exactly the same legal format as the Global Pact on Migration. So what the opposition side considers to be a non-binding legal document is a binding legal document that is celebrated by the UN decades later, and it is not the World Human Rights Day that is a problem here, but the legal background that the UN organisation has at its disposal at the moment to enforce the provisions of this agreement. We believe that at the moment there are more than 70,000 people on the Balkan route who wish to enter the European Union, in Turkey the number of asylum seekers or migrants is already up to 4 million, and the vast majority of these people are still imagining their future in the territory of the European Union. And if the international institutions and the leaders of the European Union continue to pursue policies that catalyse, not resist, these people coming to the European Union, then we will face extremely serious migration and security problems. The Hungarian government wants to stop this with all its might. The Hungarian Government wishes to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people and to resist all such efforts. I would ask for your support in this, and thank you very much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-30	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-12-10-31	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Mr Jobbik; László Horváth, Mr Fidesz; Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday was attended by the following representatives: László Varga, MSZP; László Varju, DK; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; János Latorcai, KDNP; László Böröcz, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Balázs Simon Róbert, Fidesz; Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; Erik Fülöp, independent.
u2018-12-10-32	Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 198. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal to derogate from house rules. The House Committee initiates the Parliament to depart from the house rules on this day's sitting by saying that the Slovenian minority spokesperson Erika Kissné Köles before the decision was taken on the agenda proposal, the Slovenian Republic of Hungary entitled "According to the Anniversaries" is the House Rule 18. It may speak for a period of five minutes by the application of paragraph 5 of this Article. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/3937. can also be found on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House decided unanimously to derogate from the house rules by 146 votes in favour. Accordingly, Erika Kissné Köles will take the floor before the Slovenian minority spokesperson for a five-minute period, with the title just mentioned. So I give the floor to the woman who spoke. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, Poslanke, Poslanci in Zagovorniki! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Speaking Lords! Dear House, Hungary's diversity includes the fact that many other peoples have lived on its land for centuries. I share some thoughts with you today on the anniversaries that are representative of the presence and vitality of our community, one of the oldest nationalities living here. Many people are asking me whether such a small community is viable or viable. Not a multitude, but a soul and a free people do wonderful things. We live and thank you for the question, and we live our Slovenian life here in Hungarian society more and more freely. From 2010 the Government of Hungary has given increasing attention to its nationalities, providing more and more spectacular benefits and effective development to the Slovenian ethnic community. Our situation, our relationships can get better and better, and we need to be able to live well with them. We are small, but strong, and we have a community of treasures. Anniversaries are good for counting and summing up values. The Slovenian community in Hungary also lives well in the light of the anniversaries. He's alive. He's not just a vegetable. From 1991, he began to build himself up with some enthusiastic members of our nationality, and to form himself into an organized form, even very much alive. More and more spectacular and successful efforts have led the Slovenian population to sow the seeds of hope that it is still not too late to do so in order to survive and develop our Slovenian existence, to pass on our language and cultural heritage. We were already able to count on real results in 1998, but we still have a number of questions today, in addition to the desire for better. On 18 no-vember 1998, 20 years ago, in the presence of the then Hungarian and Slovenian Presidents, the Consulate General of the Republic of Slovenia in Szentgotthárd was opened on a ceremony in the centre of the Slovenian Rába region. Dignified remembrance and many new plans were made during the festival. [[14.40]] On the same day, 20 years ago, the opening of the Slovenian Cultural and Information Centre, known as the house of the Slovenians, and the start of its effective operation, was typically a significant step. It may have happened later than it would have been optimal, but I can say with conviction that it wasn't too late. In the light of the past two decades, we can see that, together with the National Slovenian Municipality, both institutions have made a significant contribution to improving the quality of life and strengthening the economic and cultural situation of the Slovenians in Hungary. In the past 20 years, Slovenian organizations moved to Szombathely to earn a living. The Slovenian municipality of Szombathely and then the Pável Ágoston Slovenian Cultural Association are the living model of the Rába region, with active members from all villages. In addition to their cultural programs and traditional workshops, they traveled the important cultural and sacral memorial sites of the mother country, enriched with sister settlements and Slovenian friends; they are known and recognized. One of the most patinistic artistic communities of the Slovenian Rába region, the Pável Ágoston, in Upper Szolnok, is also a mixed faculty. The choir, which initially functioned as a church and then as a woman's faculty, celebrated the 80th anniversary of its existence since the '60s. His repertoire includes both Slovenian folk songs, choral works and church songs from Rába. They are well-known and recognised both at home and in Slovenia. During the decades of their operation, several of their sound carriers appeared, in recognition of their valuable activities, the Pro Cultura Minoritatum Hungariae and the Prizes for Nationalities. 125 years ago, the first state high school in Vas county opened its doors, the school, from which I and many of the students from the Slovenian villages in Hungary started their journey, not only as well as the established and modern knowledge, but always as a mediator of Christian human values. The Vörösmarty Mihály High School in Szentgotthárd has been rejuvenated last week, the first secondary school in Hungary, in which Slovenian language education, Slovenian graduation and language exams can be organized since the 1990s. The anniversaries of my speech also show that although the smallest, indigenous presence, established traditions, particular culture and language of Slovenia in Hungary hide treasures that are important for future generations. That's what I work for. Thank you for helping me with my work in the future. Hvala za posornost! Thank you very much.
u2018-12-10-34	Thank you for your speech. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Tamás Pintér and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát were informed that they had formed a group called "The Hungarian Population Balance." According to the rules of the house, the formation of the group does not affect their membership of the faction. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the declarations, information materials and the envelope for the declaration of property of the family member will be received by the Members at the reception desk at the entrance of the Chamber's President's office between the sittings of 10-13 December, at the secretariat of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. I would also like to announce that Congressman István Szávay has informed me today that the Act on Parliament 10. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, he resigned from his duties as notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. [[For signal:]] I see Congressman Bertalan Tóth's order on the monitor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a point of order is only possible after the adoption of the agenda. If you wish to ask us to set the agenda by means of a vote, I take note of that. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: No, there is more.]] Nothing else is possible, because it is only possible to do so after the adoption of the agenda according to house rules. [[Uproar and interruptions in the ranks of MSZP and DK, among them: It is not so! It could be on the agenda. Maybe! Maybe! Why can't it be?]] I can't! [[Rumors and interruptions in the ranks of MSZP and DK, including: Why not? Yes, you can. Why can't it be? Maybe! Shame!]] I'm sorry. So the parliamentary decision on certain house rules is 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward under the power of the President initiates the adoption of a directive on climate change in the 21st century. V/3543, one of the biggest global and domestic challenges of the 20th century; curbing and adapting to the expected impacts. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the LMP Group, the Decision on certain house rules 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2018-12-10-35	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the time frame increase, is as follows: 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 47 minutes for the KDNP Group; 40 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 32 minutes for the MSZP Group; 25 minutes for the DK Group; 22 minutes for the LMP Group, which is a total of 44 minutes; 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2018-12-10-36	Dear Parliament, Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, he agrees that the presentation will be discussed within the time frame described by the notary and modified on the basis of the request of the LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal by 119 votes to 43, with no abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. Deviation from the House Rule put forward in Presidential power is initiated by the National Assembly to act as T/3975 on the centenary for the restoration of independent Poland. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on Wednesday. The proposal for a derogation from the house rule was proposed by T/3975/4. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules in T/3975/4. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has unanimously agreed to a derogation from the house rules by 160 votes in favour. In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be tabled today for 16 hours and 49 minutes. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Wednesday's meeting. Dear House, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The DK Group suggested that T/3628 amending certain laws relating to the organisation of working time and the minimum rental fee for temporary agency work. The decision and final vote on the Commission's report and the summarised amendment proposal are not to take place at this meeting. Please let anyone who agrees to this be sure to raise your hand. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has rejected the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. T/3373. T/3293 on the day of the Parliament's meeting on Tuesday, to discuss the Commission's report and the summary amendment proposal on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the copyright legislation on architectural works, technical installations and their plans. Following the discussion of the Commission's reports on the legislative proposal No 1 and the summary amendment proposal. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted this proposal. [[14.50]] The Fidesz Group also suggested that T/3354 on the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts and certain transitional rules. T/3353 on the day of the meeting of the National Assembly on Wednesday, to decide on the summation of the proposed amendment and the final vote on the administrative courts. A decision on a summary amendment of the legislative proposal and a final vote shall be taken after the final vote. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that, on Wednesday's meeting of the Parliament, T/2934 amending certain laws on criminal matters and other related matters. Following the decision on the final vote and the final vote, the T/3372 amending certain laws on cultural subjects should be taken in this order. Bill No. XVI of 1991 on the concession T/3635. Legislative bill No 3 and T/3626 amending certain health and health insurance laws The final vote and the decision on the final proposal for a comprehensive amendment. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House agrees with the motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the draft agenda for the Parliament meeting between 10 and 13 December 2018 be supplemented by the T/3975 on the centenary for the restoration of independent Poland. With a consolidated debate on the legislative proposal No 1 and with a vote on the summary amendment proposal and a final vote. The joint debate shall take place on Tuesday as item 1 following the speeches before the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I note that the visible majority of this House has also adopted this proposal. Dear Parliament, In connection with the 2925 amendments tabled by representatives of the MSZP, DK and Dialogue fractions to the agenda of the Parliament on 10 and 13 December 2018, I initiated the Judicial Committee responsible for interpreting the provisions of the house rules to take a position on the houseliness of the proposals and on the procedure to be followed. The Judicial Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 3/2018-2022. In its resolution of a case-by-case nature, IÜB concluded that the proposals in question are neither alone nor jointly capable of determining, in the event of their support, the order in which the items on the agenda of the Parliament's meeting are to be negotiated. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's a lie! Moore in the opposition benches.]] In addition, the Committee concluded that, taking into account the constitutional principles set out in the practice of the Constitutional Court, initiatives to amend the agenda proposal could clearly be regarded as abuse and obstruction of rights guaranteed by house rules. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: He took the word away from me in an irregular way.]] Constitutional requirement for democratic power [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: Whoa! Whistle from the ranks of opposition representatives.]] In order to ensure the deliberate and professionally sound participation of Members of Parliament in the parliamentary decision-making procedure and the effective functioning of the Parliament, the predictability of the legislative procedure and the conduct of it in a reasonable order. On the basis of the above, the Committee has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2925 proposals in question with a single decision. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame!]] On the basis of the committee's resolution, I propose that the Parliament decide jointly on the 2925 proposals for amendments to the agenda submitted by the MSZP, DK and Dialogue fractions. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Speak in order. Dr. László Varga: Request a word.]] I'm ordering a machine vote. Please provide the technical conditions for this. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What are you doing here, really?! Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, and he agrees with the proposals initiated by the MSZP, DK and Dialogue Group to amend the agenda. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: No!]] Please vote. [[Vote. The table shows the result: 23 yes, 116 gender[footnoteRef:1], 0 abstentions.]] [ 1: Gergely Farkas misvoted. ] I declare that the House... [[Interventions from the opposition benches: Shame! It's illegal! Fraud! Several opposition representatives are beeping. Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Mr. President, speak in order of business.]] Dear House, [[Dr. László Varga: What are you talking about? What are you talking about? A statement from Jobbik: Shame on you! Intercoms from the opposition, among other things: It is illegal! It's a violation of the law! Dr. Laszlo Varga: Son of a bitch! What do you think you're doing? Intruder from Fidesz: Csür-he! There's a lot of people beeping.]] Dear House, First of all, I would like to inform my fellow Members that they have a medical emergency during the meeting. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] If you feel bad, go down. [[Interventions from opposition benches: No decision can be made! I can't do this! You're breaking house rules! There's a lot of people beeping.]] Now, let's continue with the vote. I ask the government representatives to listen to me. Here, on me! [[It's a constant beep.]] I'm asking the respectable... We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. [[They're beeping all the time.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. [[Intercoms and continuous beeping from the opposition benches.]] Please create the conditions for the machine vote. And I'd like a button-press vote, please. Please vote. [[Vote. Intercoms and beeps from the opposition.]] I note that the House adopted the agenda by 117 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Don't say anything like that again.]] Congressman, ease up. [[Constant beeping and interruptions from the opposition, including: What you are doing is illegal! Shame, shame!]] I would like to inform you that Congressman Varga has been disqualified from the meeting. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Sit down, calm down!]] We are about to take a decision on a personal proposal. [[Many opposition representatives stand up.]] It follows a decision on the personal proposal. [[Interventions from the opposition: Shameless! Stop it! Dr. László Varga to the MPs: Don't smile. Dr. Lajos Oláh is recording his cell phone. There's a lot of people beeping.]] I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/3976 presented by the President. The content of the personal proposal. [[Constant beeping and interruptions from the opposition. Intervention from the opposition benches: We will not allow it!]]
u2018-12-10-37	5/2008 on the establishment, election of officials and members of Parliament Parliamentary decision [[Zsolt Gréczy: You spit on the house rules! Shame, shame! Constant beeping.]] Point 1 is amended as follows: Dr. László György Lukács, Jobbik, the National Assembly elects Lajos Rig as vice-president of the Committee, while maintaining his membership of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Stop it! A statement from the opposition: Shame, shame! What's this? What meeting? What you're doing is invalid!]]
u2018-12-10-38	I ask the House, it agrees with S/3976. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote. József Móring is recording with Attila Móring's cell phone. Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're filming! You should be proud of yourselves. You would have told the people!]] I note that the House agreed with the personal proposal by 140 votes to one, with no abstention. [[Constant intervention from the opposition. Zsolt Gréczy: What you're doing is illegal! Gergely Arató: Disappointment of Parliament!]] I ask the question that this House agrees with the exclusion of Mr László Varga from the House's further session due to serious disturbance. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: No! Whispering.]] Anyone who agrees, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote. Interventions from the opposition: No! Gergely Arató: Cancel the entire opposition! Laszlo Varju: Shame on you all!]] Thank you very much. Excuse me, I'd like to ask for a machine vote again. So I'm asking you to agree with the exclusion proposal. Please vote. [[Vote. Interjections and continuous beeping by the opposition.]] I note that the exclusion of Mr László Varga by 115 votes in favour, 35 against, without abstention, was agreed by this House. I would also like to point out that Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Sándor Szabó, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Bertalan Tóth and László Varju are going to propose sanctions for the serious disorderly conduct of the House. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's the system! Agnes Kunhalmi: I'm not going anywhere! I'm a single elected congressman! Dr. Ágnes Vadai's cell phone is recording. A statement from the opposition: It's a shame, a disgrace, what you're doing!]] Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Congressman Bertalan Tóth asked for the floor. [[Constant whistling.]] If you wish to speak, I'll give you the opportunity. Congressman Bertalan Tóth asked for the floor.
u2018-12-10-39	My fellow Members, what's going on here is quite amazing. [[A statement from the opposition: That's what it is!]] because it is possible to make a point of order under the agenda. This is the text of the Judicial Committee [[He's showing me the document.]] it is flawed in many ways, and I will make a point of order. In the beginning, I signed it not as the MSZP-DK-Palogue fraction, but as the president of the MSZP and as the group leader, and my fellow Members joined. [[15.00]] On the other hand, we did not submit 2,800, but 2925 proposals. [[Agnes Kunhalmi's intervention. There's a lot of noise, there's a noise.]] Therefore, at least those 125 proposals should have been voted on. Thirdly, we asked not only for a change of order, but also for a removal from the agenda. Yes, Parliament should have voted on all our motions. [[It's an uproar.]] To finally learn what it means to work 150 hours more and what it means to be here. My motion is to repeat the vote by means of a machine vote and to vote on each of the 2925 motions by machine.
u2018-12-10-40	Agnes Vadai has also volunteered. Do you want to tell me? [[On Dr. Ágnes Vadai's mark:]] I'm sorry, your name's on the case list. My apologies for giving you the floor. But if you don't want to live with it, we'll move on. [[Gergely Arató: Mr President, you asked for the floor! He asked for a word. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We have to change glasses!]] Andrea Varga-Damm also applied for a point of order. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-41	Mr President, Since May 8, 2018, if anyone comes into a box, on your behalf, the guard regularly warns everyone not to take videos and photos in the box, except the box of Fidesz, where they keep making videos and photos. Surely, Mr President, you cannot see it because you are watching Members, and it is indeed a fundamental activity to watch us. But then, with all due respect, I'd like to ask the members of the guard, which I respect very much, to point out to the president at another time, if they're taking pictures and videos from the fidesz box. So I believe that everyone in this House is currently subject to compliance with the law. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-10-42	Although this point of order is not related to the previous point of order debate, I took note of the voice of the Member. So Mrs. Agnes Vadai is asking for the floor? [[On Dr. Ágnes Vadai's mark:]] Here you go, then.
u2018-12-10-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that the Speaker withdraw the members of the Parliamentary Guard from the entrance to the Parliamentary Assembly Hall and from the steps leading to it. Their presence is intimidating [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Members of Parliament. Not to me, not to me, to you someday. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Do you want to go up to the pulpit?]] Mr. President. Mr. President. Please withdraw the guards from the entrance to the plenary session. You have no right to be here, because there is no event for Parliament's guard to attend, unless it is to remove from the Chamber all those who should be in prison, not here. Thank you. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right! Gergely Harvesto: That's right! Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-12-10-44	Congressman Máté Kocsis joins a series of points of order.
u2018-12-10-45	Thank you very much. Mr President,
u2018-12-10-46	I'm sorry to add, before you start saying that we've heard one point of order. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-47	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I will be brief, and I will not say that I will attempt to conclude this debate. [[László Varju: Read it!]] However, I would ask my honourable fellow left-wing opposition Members, we all know, and we also know, that this is an obvious obstructive proposal, a vision [[Gergely Harvesto: It's the house rules! That's the rule of the house!]] Mr. Arató, please contact the institutions outside Parliament with your anger management problems. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 2,900 votes that you are launching at your weekend event yesterday, the day before yesterday, I do not think it can be considered a job. This speech, Mr Speaker, does not allow me to make a substantial contribution to the proposal, because it is not a debate on the proposal, but it is also sad that you are persuading people with lies. It's a dog comedy, it's hysterical, and I'm asking you... [[It's constant, it's loud.]] I ask you to try to cooperate in the effective functioning of Parliament. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You'll get your salary in three years! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There is no point of order!]] I will not go into that any more, Congresswoman Kunhalmi, that the organization of their mutually exclusive motions has not occurred, so I am personally convinced that your initiative is not a formal decision, by the way. [[Dr. László Varga: If we vote separately...]] but the principles governing the functioning of Parliament [[Gergely Arató: What is the point of order, Mr. Group Leader?]] I propose to study the Constitutional Court's decisions on parliamentary functioning. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is not a point of order!]] Please, the job would be... Congressman Varga, if you would just listen. [[László Varju: Time's up!]] I'll finish it. The job would be to decide on the nearly 50 proposals ahead. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You despise employees, spit on house rules!]] which Parliament has already discussed in its ordinary agenda. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I want you to cooperate in this and stop hysterical. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-48	Mr Sándor Burány would also like to make a point of order. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-49	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, What is happening here is indeed a mockery of the functioning of Parliament. [[Moore and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Crying from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] because it is unparalleled that the majority of Parliament will prevent debate and decision on amendments tabled in accordance with the house rules, illegally. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] I would like to draw the Fidesz faction leader's attention to the fact that, when the socialists were on the government, Fidesz once submitted thousands of written questions to the ministries as a Christmas gift, bringing dear Advent working days to the staff, secretary-general and ministers, and I would like to remind the Group leader that the thousands of answers have been answered in substance. You're saving this job because you're lazy because you don't want to work while you're trying to force others to work overtime. Obstruction, ladies and gentlemen, may or may not be illegal by taking advantage of legitimate opportunities [[Gergely Harvesto: That's right!]] the opposition is trying to slow down the functioning of the House because it disagrees with this operation and does not agree with the adoption of a law. Now, that would be the case, and you're preventing it by turning a button on all the motions. I support the MSZP's point of order these proposals must be voted into pieces in this House. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-10-50	[[It's constant noise.]] It's Bence of Turdai. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Excuse me, the President is inconsistent, because so far there has not been a point of order at all, so I was wrong to think, so I allowed the order of business to open up, if this can be seen as a debate and order of business, but this line does not fit with Bence Tordai's speech, so I apologize, but I cannot give you the floor in this round, perhaps after that. [[Moore, interruptions.]] Try to study the house rules, sometimes it's necessary for me, because I'm not up to date enough to respond to every moment. [[Bence of Turdai: Articulate, Mr. President, because I can't hear you.]] Well, because they're yelling, you can't hear it! So I can give you the floor only after the motion for a point of order that has not been made after the debate has been concluded, to a new point of order, if it becomes a point of order, but you better think about it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Think well?!]] 'Cause I'm gonna take the floor in the process if you don't have a point of order. [[Gergely Harvesto: Will you call in the guard?]] So, then, Lóránt Keresztes has something to say or opportunity for the first round, and then Imre Vejkey. Here you go. [[15.10]]
u2018-12-10-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor in order of business because I saw that the meeting became chaotic. Mr Bertalan Tóth made a point of substance, but it is not even possible to conclude that this point of substance was made in an official statement, or that it was simply formulated by the Member using his volume. I would like to ask Mr Speaker, with respect, to call an immediate meeting of the House Committee, so that it can be clarified exactly what is happening in the Parliament's walls. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-12-10-52	Thank you, I have considered the proposal, and I will convene the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee at the right time. So Imre Vejkey is next.
u2018-12-10-53	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Exactly what is happening here at this meeting is that the Judicial Committee has taken a case-by-case resolution today. [[Noise and interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Incorrect resolution!]] In this ad hoc resolution, he stated many things, including what was presented to this House. [[Gergely Harvestó: Legal work!]] Furthermore, if the head of the group of MSZP were to look at point 4, you would see that this is not the 2800 proposals in question. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: 2925!]] but on the 2925 proposals in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Noise and interventions from the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Bertalan Tóth presents a document to the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Harvesto: It's been counted in hindsight! Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interpreting from the same place: Read the rest.]]
u2018-12-10-54	The Member has provided important details to resolve future misunderstandings, thank you. Therefore, the first round of debate on the non-existent point of order proposal has been closed. [[Noise and interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Why is it not real? Dr. Bertalan Tóth: I made a point of order! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to the president: He has gone out of line again!]] Unfortunately, I cannot put forward a point of order, since there is no such thing, to the vote, because the closed [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Which did you not understand, Mr President?]] After the vote on the agenda, no member may make any amendments to the agenda. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What didn't you understand?]] neither opposition nor pro-government. [[László Varju: Yes, there was a suggestion!]] This debate is therefore closed. Does Bence of Turdai intend to make a new order of business? Please make your proposal first, so that I can decide whether you want to be, or if you just want to have the former debate, because you have something to say. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-55	Thank you. My proposal is definitely on a point of order. Having shown serious and multiple biases, Mr Speaker of the House, in conducting the meeting [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: That's right!]] I therefore move for a new chairman to take over the chair of the meeting.
u2018-12-10-56	I would like to draw the Member's attention to what is also included in the House Rule in expressis verbis for a very long time, not since 2010, that all Members are obliged to refrain from criticising the sitting. [[Noise and interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including: No! No! Not on a point of order... a round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In what house rule is this? We don't even know him!]] I will therefore not open a debate in this regard. [[Representatives of opposition parties are constantly leaving the room. It's constant noise. Dr. Ágnes Vadai to the president, the guards from near the plenary...]] So now we are going to proceed to the discussion of interpellations, immediate questions and questions. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. When can the basket be easier? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the interpellation will be answered by Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry led by István Nagy, who is responsible and competent on the subject. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-57	Mr President, Dear House, I don't find this situation as funny at all as you do, I find what you're doing in Parliament a disgrace... [[His mic's off. Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]]
u2018-12-10-58	Congressman, I would like to call on you to come to the subject of interpellation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Everyone involved in this will be before the judgment seat of history...]] So I'm deeply sorry, but what you're saying is not going to be on the record, because no one can hear you... [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Shame!]] Here, start your interpellation again, please, say your interpellation, not the previous debate.
u2018-12-10-59	I can't hear you, Mr. President, because...
u2018-12-10-60	Because your fellow Members are yelling! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. Z. Carpathian Daniel: For you cannot hear what he says! Keep the house in order. Dr. Ágnes Vadai, leaving the room, withdraw the guards from the vicinity of the plenary.]] Now the order comes up by some of the fellow Members leaving the room, and then it is likely that the room will be less noisy. [[There is a beep from the outgoing opposition representatives.]] I was wrong! [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. Intervention from the benches of the governing parties to the outgoing opposition representatives: Work!]] I'll have the congressman's watch restored to zero minutes zero seconds. [[It's happening.]] Congressman, shall we begin? Here you go.
u2018-12-10-61	Mr. President. I think that Mr President-in-Office of the Council and no one else in this House meant that under such circumstances an interpellation can be said normally, and therefore, because of my respect for the memory of Hungarian democracy, I do not wish to take this opportunity. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar leaving the room: Shame!]] Shame on you! What you're doing is a disgrace. You will all stand before the court of history for this! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Pál Völner: What belongs together grows together! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Follow Gyurcsány! Some of the independent representatives stay in the room. It's constant noise.]]
u2018-12-10-62	Then for the record, I'd like to say that István Hiller's interpellation would be next, who is not in the room. There would be an interpellation by Congressman Gergely Arató, who is also not in the room. Márta Demeter also left the room. [[Szabolcs Szabó leaving the room: Have fun!]] Mr. Sándor Burány is also not in the room. Kristóf Szatmáry, a representative of Fidesz, who submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. How much road development can be achieved in the capital in 2019 under the Budapest Road Construction Programme? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-12-10-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can talk about a case that, by the way, tens of thousands of Budapesters are interested in, and this is the next one. We know that Budapest is not only the capital of the country and the Hungarian nation, but it is now one of the most dynamically developing settlements in Europe, yet I would say: one of the most livable settlements. Thanks to its security, it is an increasingly popular and visited tourist destination across Europe. That's why we in Budapest like to live here. We are pleased to note that Budapest has made more progress after 2010 than in the previous 20 years, thanks, among other things, to the Fidesz government's help. New public institutions, renewable public areas, sports investments, Liget project, hundreds of billions of HUF state aid, international events. [[Tibor Bana leaving the room to the benches of the governing parties: Shame on you!]] We are proud that Fidesz has done more for Budapest than any political party already [[There's a beep and noise coming in from the hallway.]] That sounds good behind me. Nevertheless, there are still tasks to be done. One of these is the problem of inland roads to eliminate the legacy of the past. For this reason, nearly a year ago, Fidesz in the capital decided to initiate a four-year programme to provide solid road cover for all inland roads. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian leaving the room to the benches of the governing parties: You must be proud...]] The government decided at the end of last year and, as a result, allocated HUF 10 billion from the 2019 budget for this purpose. With the available resources, we hope that this can be done effectively and quickly through the municipalities. In the framework of the road construction programme in Budapest, the metropolitan authorities were able to submit their individual aid applications to the Prime Minister's Office by 30 November this year, for the asphalting of roads without solid roads owned by 100% of them. Budapest, XVI. As a district single-member constituencies representative, where a lot of roads have been built in my district in the past, I trust that within the framework of this programme, the HUF 10 billion available will really help a lot of Budapest residents, improving their quality of life and the environment experienced by their families in their everyday work. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how much road development is expected in 2019 under the road construction programme in Budapest. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-10-64	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members and ask Mr Szatmáry, who accepted Mr Soltész's reply instead of Minister Gergely Gulyás. [[Kristóf Szatmáry: Yes.]] It says yes. State Secretary Miklós Soltész has the floor.
u2018-12-10-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You can answer in calm conditions and work in calm conditions in Budapest. I think it's important. Over the past few years, the government has implemented a lot of road construction programs, together with the Budapest capital and the Budapest districts, which have not characterised the past decades too much. I suppose many have learned about the road constructions that marked the busy roads, and now, in the next period, indeed, as you have said, there will be a need for new subsidies, and there is a need for new aid, not only for new aid, but also for new roads and road renewal. [[15.20]] In the first step, the government will provide HUF 10 billion in funding in the 2019 budget, and a decision will soon be taken on the incoming applications that you have mentioned, honourable Member. This means that there are currently 260 kilometers of roads without solid housing in Budapest, which will be renewed with more than HUF 50 billion in support in the coming years, and they will receive the solid housing. Based on the summary, 14 districts submitted applications for 188 road sections of a total length of 45 km worth 8.86 billion HUF, so the government will meet this year's demands next year. And it is very important that we plan to implement these road constructions, together with the capital, together with the districts, so that according to the programme of the next four years, which the government guarantees, by 2022, the asphalting of the unconstructed roads of all districts will take place. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would add, in conclusion, that it is not just the capital that needs to be thought of, because the capital also lives with the agglomeration, and the agglomeration plays a very important role in the life of the capital, and the people who live there must be helped. So the government is working on a similar programme now, and hopefully it will be able to issue a similar proposal in the coming period. Thank you very much for your question, for the benefit of the people of Budapest, for the benefit of the people living in the districts of Budapest, I think this will be a huge step, a huge change, and we will do everything together with the capital, the districts, and the government, precisely because the capital belongs to everyone. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-66	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. I'll ask Congressman Szatmáry to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-12-10-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am glad to hear it, and I think that this is really good news in the Advent preparations for the tens of thousands of Budapesters who live in the vicinity of nearly two hundred roads today, which we hope will be European grade asphalt next year. It's a very good Christmas news for them. And as you have said, I believe that this is a big step for the people of Budapest, as has been said in your reply in Budapest, for nearly 200 kilometers of dirt. But the best news is that we hope that this program will continue, and indeed we can say that in four years' time, in four years' time, all the Hungarian roads in Budapest can be eliminated by the metropolitan authorities and the government. Thank you very much, your answer is, of course, accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Satmary. Dear Parliament, Fidesz and good-looking Members who would be next will not be in the room. József Attila Móring, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister responsible for innovation and technology:, How do you evaluate the results of the Home Gay Program so far? It's an address. Mr Attila Móring has the floor.
u2018-12-10-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As a result of the economic policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government, families can receive support for replacing their outdated, energy-intensive tools, and this brings modern energy-saving machines to Hungarian households. The "Home Gay" program, launched in 2014, has been able to improve the living conditions of over 200,000 families and reduce energy use with the support of modern, better energy-efficient household appliances. In the program "Home Gay" the government has spent some HUF 30 billion on this support in recent years. The programme is also part of Hungary's national climate change strategy, thus serving environmental objectives, and the total programme reduces CO2 emissions by 100,000 tonnes annually. Dear Secretary of State, This year, a tender for the replacement of large household appliances could be submitted between 5 and 21 November, where the public could request support for the exchange of refrigerators, freezers and washing machines. In the recently completed sub-programme for 2018, the number of applicants exceeded 119 thousand, and the amount requested was HUF 5 billion. According to the news, this year the government increased the amount of aid due to the economic performance of the country, in view of the needs of the applicants. I think that the common goal of all of us is to help families as widely as possible with 20, 40 and 45 thousand forints depending on energy consumption, in addition to reducing the cost of subsidies to thousands of families, with about 15-20 thousand forints per year. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the above, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State about the programme "Home Gay" to assess the results of the programme "Home Gay" so far, what kind of program is expected to encourage public energy savings in the future. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-70	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Móring. If you consent, Minister Palkovics will answer on behalf of Minister Péter Cseresnyés. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary.
u2018-12-10-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With the program "Home Gay" the government encourages and facilitates the energy modernisation of privately owned residential buildings, reducing Hungarian household expenses. Supported investments will also bring us closer to meeting the country's energy and climate policy objectives. The main aim of the tender schemes announced in the programme is to provide fast, non-refundable grants for both housing and family housing residents throughout the country. Until now, ten sub-programmes have been announced to improve energy efficiency in residential buildings and households and to install renewable energy systems. The last tender sub-programme for the exchange of refrigerators, freezers or washing machines was reopened in November this year. There was more interest in the possibility of support than usual. The sub-programme received 119 thousand applications nearly double the last year's number. The applicants requested a total of HUF 5 billion in support compared to the initial budget of HUF 2 billion. Thanks to the economic performance of the country, we were able to provide the necessary additional HUF 3 billion to support the applications. With the up-to-date announcements of the "Home Gay" programme, the government contributes to the energy modernisation of more than 320 thousand households, providing a total non-refundable grant of HUF 35 billion. With the help of the program, people made investments worth approximately HUF 70 billion. From an energy point of view, the modernisations carried out by the applicants resulted in an overall energy saving of 300 million kilowatt hours per year. This amount of energy is equivalent to the annual consumption of 100,000 Hungarian households of average size. Hungarian families save between 10 and 180 thousand forints per year depending on their overhead expenditure, depending on their sub-programme and complexity. The total savings of supported households can reach HUF 10 billion per year. The results of the measures are not only economically measurable and demonstrable. The positive effects of the programme are remarkable in both social and ecological terms, as modernisations serve the satisfaction of the population and lower environmental pressures due to the reduction of CO2 emissions by 120 to 130 thousand tonnes per year. Another positive consequence from a sustainability perspective is that, by selling the CO2 quotas released on international markets, their revenues are the basis of new energy efficiency measures for the general public. Our wallet continues to explore the possibility of reopening the already suspended sub-programmes and launching new calls for proposals, which can increase energy efficiency and further reduce household energy costs. In the coming months, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is preparing to launch new sub-programmes for the continuation of the Home Gay Program. [[15.30]] It is essential for the government to support Hungarian families with programs that further reduce their energy consumption and overhead costs. It is therefore our firm intention to continue the successful and popular warm home program, which can reach up to 1 in 10 Hungarian households by the end of next year. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr József Attila Móring, Member, to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2018-12-10-73	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. It is comforting to hear that this is not a closed programme, but that the government is planning to continue with these subsidies in the future. Thank you very much, and I accept your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-74	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade with the title "The Future of Hungarians in Transcarpathia in the light of Hungarian-Ukrainian relations." Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor.
u2018-12-10-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Of the Hungarian communities across the border, the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians is probably the most difficult. Their acquired rights are repeatedly undermined and undermined by the Ukrainian Government, thereby risking their future. The Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia was attacked within a month by two attacks, while the European Union and NATO Member States are spectacularly avoiding the resolution. We are pleased to see that the Hungarian Government, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has already stood firm and hard against the violation of the rights of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia. The strong stance of the Ministry against the language law, the educational law and the negative provisions of the Citizenship Act, the strong position of the Hungarian community to protect the rights of the Hungarian community, is also a serious weapon in the future of Hungarian-Ukrainian bilateral relations. We can safely say that the withdrawal of the draft citizenship law tabled by the President of Ukraine in an emergency procedure is largely due to the efforts of the Minister, the Ministry, but the entire Hungarian politics and public life, and we trust that the attitude that is not contradictory will move the other draft laws in a positive direction for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. Dear Secretary of State, I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State, in light of the developments in Hungarian-Ukrainian relations, where we are now in defending the rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians, we can expect in the near future the resolution of the conflict, the Ukrainian government's understanding that the acquired rights of national communities are inalienable. I look forward to your reply, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-76	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Szijjártó asked Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2018-12-10-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this up. We have had several opportunities to talk about Ukraine and the situation in Transcarpathia here in this House, but it cannot be enough, especially given that the situation calls for further dialogue and further communication. If you'll allow me, a little chronological overview of what has happened recently. Hungary and the Hungarian Government have given loud support to Ukraine's visa liberalisation activities, aspirations and the association agreement concluded between the European Union and Ukraine. We supported Ukraine in this regard, which is why we have lived as a backstabbing when, after the conclusion of these conventions, there were successive anti-Hungarian actions, some of which you mentioned. The Education Act was perhaps the first step in taking away the learning opportunities of ethnic students in their mother tongue. Earlier it was between 3 and 23 years of age, so it was possible to study in mother tongue in the spectrum of full education, according to the new provision, it was given until the end of the lower school and then it was not. With regard to the language law, I can say that any draft language law on the table in Ukraine is seriously damaging the situation compared to the previous language law, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court. A 10-percent threshold was previously established within the region, and if there was this 10-percent share, then the nationality language could be used in public administration, media, culture and parts of these areas. Now I'd like to raise that to 30 percent or over. The so-called death list where Hungarians in Transcarpathia are listed and named as enemies of Ukraine should be mentioned in the secret service action carried out at our Consulate General in Beregszás. It has to be mentioned, as you have done, that KMKZSZ's office in Ungvár was attacked twice in a short time, tried to blow it up twice and succeeded twice. In the present circumstances, Hungary and the Hungarian Government, I think it is possible to say that they are a fair partner of Ukraine. We also help when they ask for help, because, for example, the supply of drinking water in Transcarpathia is not guaranteed, and obviously, clean water can be drunk not only by Hungarians, but also by Ukrainians. We are also here to welcome Ukrainian children whose parents were involved in the fights in East Ukraine and could be classified. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In this respect, therefore, the Hungarian position is clear, Minister Szijjártó also spoke about it several times, and we want to maintain the dialogue. He is also meeting with Mr Foreign Minister's Ukrainian partner in Brussels today. But we cannot support Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration until the disenfranchisation is completed and the rights taken are returned. Of course, it should also be said that we have been very concerned about the recent incident at sea, and we have been very concerned about the state of war in Ukraine. Of course, it is never good to have a state of war in a neighbouring country, especially if there are 150,000 Hungarians living there. We are pleased that this state of war affects only 10 counties, not Transcarpathia. So, in this sense, the Transcarpathian Hungarians are not affected by what has happened or by the introduction of a state of war. Nevertheless, of course, we are very concerned about what has happened. We trust that all parties involved will comply with the agreements in Minsk, because we see only this and only the negotiated path that can affect the resolution of the problem. We have been in constant contact with the leaders of Transcarpathian Hungarians, since the state of war was introduced, even if it does not affect Transcarpathia, we are in daily contact. Thank you again for raising the subject. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a rejoinder, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply, thank you for your answer. It is comforting to see that Hungary has a government that cares about Hungarians across the border and stands up for the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. We may remember the thanks of Russian Ildikó in tears before the House of Terror on 23 October, when he said that only the Hungarian government stood by us. How good it is to know and feel that the Hungarian government is behind us. So thank you once again for the answer, and I think it is important that we make it clear to our Ukrainian friends that Hungary only supports the Euroatlantic integration of Ukraine if Hungarians there are not attacked, life will return to normal, let's say. I accept the answer, thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Listen to two announcements before immediate questions. They want to hear this. One is longer, the other is shorter. The longer: the following representatives have formulated an interpellation, but they are not in the room. The minutes, please record: Mr Gergely Farkas and Congressman Brenner Koloman, Mr Sándor Szabó, Member Sándor Székely, Member Bernadett Szél, Representative Tibor Bana, Member Lajos Korózs, Member Zsolt Gréczy, Member Zoltán Magyar, Member Tamás Pintér, Representative György László Lu-kács. They're not in the room, so they couldn't ask their interpellation questions. Another announcement, Honourable Parliament, is that the author initiated the 2016 LXXIV on the protection of the settlement image. T/3373. adjourned the Commission's reports and the debate on the summary amendment. This is decided by the Parliament without discussion, with a raise of hands. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to adjourn the T/3373. The debate on the Commission's reports on the legislative proposal No 1 and the summary amendment proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, Now we move on to immediate questions. Members of Márton Gyöngyösi and Tibor Bana do not reside in the Chamber, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member Gergely Arató, Member Antal Csárdi, Representative Kocsis-Cake Olivio do not stay in the Chamber. [[15.40]] For an immediate question, I would like to give the floor to Mr Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, who wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question: what future is there for Europe in the event of Guy Verhofstadt and other maniac pro-immigration politicians coming to power? It's an address. I ask you to accept Mr Péter Ágh's reply from State Secretary Miklós Soltész instead of Balázs Orbán. [[Péter Ágh: I accept.]] Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2018-12-10-81	Dear Secretary of State, Approaching the elections to the European Parliament, two strong, different positions are emerging across Europe. One is the multiculturalist pro-immigration side of Soros' ideas, and the other is the anti-immigration camp that struggles with the survival of thousands of years of European Christian culture. The question is whether we will become an immigrant continent, thereby becoming an immigrant country, or we want to keep it to ourselves, which we have built in our history over a thousand years old. It is clear that the EP elections in May will be crucial for Europe's future. It is clear that the sectoral issues of the next five years will be determined by the ability to curb illegal immigration and manage the millions of unidentified illegal immigrants who have already arrived. It is clear that the governors of the Soros network in Brussels are becoming increasingly aggressive. They are almost sickly insisting on further strengthening illegal immigration. It is enough to think only of the migrant visa to be accepted under the grass or of anonymous migrant credit cards. Last time on the subject, the maniac pro-immigration Guy Verhofstadt hit the Hungarian people and the Prime Minister, only because we do not want to become an immigrant country. The politician, who was obsessed with maintaining illegal migration and enforcing Soros' policy, referred to the dung heap of politics only because, as a result of the government's actions, we defended the borders of our country and the Schengen area. It is unacceptable for the people of Brussels to use such words to describe the nation that stands up for the survival of Europe's Christian culture. Dear Secretary of State, It is a serious threat to Europe's survival that the bureaucrats in Brussels, representing the interests of Soros, insist with their teeth and nails on maintaining illegal immigration. In view of these, I would like to ask what future Europe will have if Guy Verhofstadt and his associates were to come to power next May. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2018-12-10-83	Thank you for your concern, honourable Member. I think we have seen that if a democracy is not perfect, if some people, a few dozen people, either in a Parliament or in the European Union, misunderstand or just want to change democracy in their own form, it is where it leads. We see that when they voted in Brussels a few months ago and failed to take the vote in their direction, what they did: they came up with a completely new method, they forged the case law of the time, and now they're having people voted again. We have also seen here in Parliament that if the majority accepts a proposal, they do not like it, they want to include Parliament in anarchy. Dear fellow Member, The answer to the question that you have asked is clear: if those who are still in the majority in Europe, especially in Western Europe, keep most of them, they will invade Europe. Then Europe, in the sense that we have experienced over the past centuries, has lived, its history, tradition, Christianity and culture will be completely out of the way. The answer is clear: if the people who otherwise have no authority over everything they are doing now come to power, then Europe will be in very big trouble. Therefore, for three and a half years, the Hungarian government has had a clear answer: we will not allow illegal immigration, we will help those in trouble, but the help must be in place, and I therefore think that this is an example to be followed for other nations and for all those who will vote in May. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-84	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Mr Péter Agh is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2018-12-10-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, While Guy Verhofstadt is doing nothing but attacking Hungary sprinkling and hating, the government is doing what it is supposed to do on the basis of a clear and clear mandate: it protects the country and protects it so that we do not become an immigrant country. I think that it is quite clear and clear that we are writing the history of Europe's future now. Now is the time to prevent the irresponsible politicalisation that has taken place so far. Therefore, we need a huge battle now in May, we call together all citizens who do believe that responsible politics is needed in Brussels, we need responsible politicalisation in the European Union, and therefore we need to defeat the camp that wants to push immigration and teach Hungarian people a lesson in democracy. In this interview, Guy Verhofstadt also referred to the need to find a form that can get the Hungarian Parliament to better understand what it is that can give the Hungarian Parliament a new decision-making mechanism by wanting to write it, and they want to control it. I think that this reflects how they relate to democracy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Soltés.
u2018-12-10-87	Honourable Congressman, Verhofstadt put the axe in a pretty tough tree, and I could say he bit a pretty tough apple, and sometimes it shows up. When we decided to defend Hungary in 2015, we didn't think that in a few years' time those who abused us, those who told everything about the Hungarian nation and the Hungarian leaders, the nations who turned against us, will follow the Hungarian example, and not only will they follow us, but those who do not want to do this, that is to say, to protect their nations and Europe. I am sure that the majority of Europeans are slowly waking up, and I am sure that the majority of Europeans will notice that the anarchist company, mentioned by you, represented by the gentleman, if any, must sooner or later disappear from the political stage of Europe. Thank you very much for your question and your suggestion. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-88	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, Congressman Peter James is not in the room, which is why we are moving on. Mr László Földi, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What does consumer protection do to protect consumers before the holidays? It's an address. At the request of the Minister, instead of Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State Ákos Kara will prepare an answer. Do you accept, Mr. Notary, Congressman? [[László Földi: I accept.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman László Earth.
u2018-12-10-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As Christmas approaches, it is worth talking about what consumers should pay more attention to in this period. Consumer protection also has a greater role to play in this context, as it is their duty to minimise and prevent the various potential problems of consumer protection. The most common items in this case are the Christmas lights and other lighting decorations, which are used by customers in the period before the holidays, either outdoor or indoor decorations. But it is equally important to pay attention to online shopping. In this area, it is a serious achievement that the 54 percent problem ratio of the previous period has been reduced to 13 percent. Dear Secretary of State, The Consumer Protection Authority will monitor fairs, shops, gift shops more closely in order to protect businesses and families in the period before Christmas. [[15.50]] Among other things, consumer protection controls will examine the appropriate price information, use credible measuring devices and the fact that the customer received a receipt at the time of purchase. We also know from the news that hundreds of businesses have been inspected by experts from the Consumer Protection Authority in recent years. That is why I am asking the Honourable Secretary of State: how do you assess the consumer protection checks so far, what trend have you seen with regard to consumer infringements? Before Christmas, at what locations are additional checks planned? What additional measures will the authorities take to protect consumers? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-90	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara.
u2018-12-10-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Ladies and gentlemen, The national consumer protection investigation ordered by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology serves the safe preparation of Hungarian families before Christmas. As in previous years, the Consumer Protection Authority will continue to monitor more closely the typical products of the holiday period. In addition to the price display at Christmas fairs and settlements, they control the existence, credibility of measuring instruments, the provision of receipts and important information on complaint handling, which is essential for the enforcement of consumer needs. In the course of pre-Christmas inspections, the principle is that the Consumer Protection Authority is primarily consultative, i.e. for SMEs only a warning and not a fine for the first time. Since more and more people are getting their gifts online, the IT laboratory of the Ministry of Innovation will also focus on webshops as of November, in addition to the year-round inspection. Another priority area for controls is product safety, i.e. the elimination of dangerous products in shops, online stores and, of course, in those festive fairs. In the spirit of security, it can be mentioned as an example, as Mr President has just mentioned, the examination of light garlands and so-called lighting ornaments, resulting in the withdrawal from circulation by the Consumer Protection Authority of several dangerous products. Checks are also in the interests of honest and law-abiding businesses, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-92	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Mr László Földi, notary, has the right to a rejoinder.
u2018-12-10-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. It's all very important, because we're laymen in many cases, especially for electronics, for example, I am in any way; and it doesn't matter what I buy, what I bring home, my grandchildren, if they play with these things, how safe, how problematic this thing is. So I think it is important in every way, and it is also important to point out that this test method is not going against businesses and this investigation, but it is also going for the benefit of businesses, because this protects not only the consumer, but also protects businesses. I am very confident that, with the help of the Consumer Protection Authority, every Hungarian family will have a merry Christmas. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-94	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. You have the opportunity to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2018-12-10-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The main aim of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is to contribute to the peaceful Christmas preparations of Hungarian families, peace and security of the holidays with continuous active consumer protection presence and regular controls. My fellow Member has also used the term security, which is also a priority for us. Consumer protection controls will continue to be ongoing throughout the year, in December, in trade fairs and shops until Christmas Day in the coming days. At the same time, Hungarian consumers, families and decent businesses can expect consumer protection not only during the festive season. For example, we will continue to monitor e-commerce in 2019 and we still consider product safety to be very important. For the safety of children, we will also re-check summer camps, adventure parks, and commodities shows to protect the elderly, where we have been able to take very effective steps with the government's decisions. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-96	Thank you, Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Dear Parliament, I note that Congressman Lajos Korózs, Mr Gergely Arató and Mr Zsolt Gréczy are not in the Chamber. Therefore, Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: what measures has the government taken to ensure that zero tolerance against hatred prevails in Hungary? It's an address. I would like to ask Congressman if he would accept the Secretary of State, Mr Soltész, appointed by the Minister. [[For signal:]] Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Sándor Kovács.
u2018-12-10-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As is known to everyone, a recording of the May Renewal Congress of Jobbik was recently made public, where the party's representative, István Szávay, bragged that he hit a Jewish woman at a nightclub. He also made other gross statements on origin on the recording, which could in themselves be the basis for the crime of hatred. Despite István Szávay's promise, he still hasn't returned his mandate, and Jobbik still knows the politician among its members. Prior to the 2010 change of government, we met with a large number of similar styles, seriously disturbing manifestations of public peace in the country. Remember, when organizations on the streets of Budapest were allowed to march freely, putting anti-Semitic hateful sentences and principles on their flags. Governments led by left-wing parties have only assisted in these acts, but they have not taken any meaningful action to prevent such organisations and their representatives from openly spreading their fear-fearing, violent views. The failure of socialist-liberal governments has forged and strengthened extreme voices, one of which was Jobbik. Following the 2010 elections, the Government of Hungary used all means to reduce extremes. It is clear that this has succeeded, since today Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world, where people can live fearlessly, unlike some of Europe's top democracies, where anti-Semitic manifestations and tensions between religious and ethnic communities have become commonplace. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: what measures has the Government taken to ensure that zero tolerance against hatred prevails in Hungary? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-98	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Kovács. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2018-12-10-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If we meet and talk to leaders of international organisations in Hungary, we do not hear the same thing as we often hear from at least parts of Western European or North American press products. They acknowledge the huge effort and the many, many positive decisions that the Hungarian government is making for the Jewish communities in Hungary at the will of the majority of Hungarian people. We have to do this because the third largest community in Europe lives in Hungary and is the largest in Central Europe. For this reason, we have taken a lot of steps in the last eight years, the practice of which is now completely natural for those living within the Hungarian community and within the Jewish community. If you look at the fact that there are three Jewish denominations within 32 established churches within the church law, this is very important. They can hold hospitals, kindergartens and schools themselves, and all of this, thanks to a growing trend in recent years, serves to provide more and more people. It is important that we have declared zero tolerance within the legislative framework, and we do not allow what you have mentioned to happen to people who incite hatred, and on the other hand, the charities watch such hate parades with closed eyes or spread arms. I believe that it is important that Hungarian support can be used to monitor anti-Semitism across all states of the European Union. Interestingly, there were protests by Balliberal organizations about this, by the way. Interestingly, when we take action against anti-Semitism in any country, so mostly in Hungary, they cannot tolerate it, but if we take a similar step in another country, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Then they claim and do the exact opposite. Thank you very much for your concern and question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2018-12-10-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Kovács.
u2018-12-10-101	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to give you some examples from home, since a Jewish organization recently approached me that in Chenger, where a very famous Jewish rabbi is buried, they would like to open a tourist center where they can exercise and visit this kind of religious commitment. But I also have to mention the Roma population of the constituency with whom we can celebrate without any fear. So thank you very much for the Government's work so far and for the zero tolerance you have done to protect these minorities and to protect the majority of society. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-102	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2018-12-10-103	Honourable Congressman, Over the past few years, we have renewed dozens of synagogues in Kaposvár, Debrecen, Győr, Székesfehérvár, Szeged, Pécs, Vácon, Madon, Keszthely, Kiskunhalas, and beyond the border, either in Partium or in Beregszász, or in Subotica, so in Transcarpathian and Southern countries, that is, we have helped to renew them, precisely because one of the foundations of survival is not only for them, it is true for nationalities, if they can practice their religion. Unfortunately, we can make a rather sad comparison as to what has happened in France, Germany and many Western European countries in recent years, where anti-Semitism is now growing, from which Jewish communities are now fleeing, and they are becoming less and less able to practice both their cultural programmes and their more important Jewish religion, and this clearly shows that this is because of the increase in migration, as violent migration increases [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Indeed, it has the opposite effect on Semitism and anti-Semitism. Thank you very much for the suggestion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-104	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig and Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian are not in the room. This concludes the item on the agenda for immediate questions. We'll move on to the questions. Congressman Péter Jakab is not in the room, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is not in the room, MEP Zsolt Gréczy, Member Péter Ungár, Member Bence Tordai is not in the room. I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Why does Soros not support our family policy? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2018-12-10-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Today, not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole, are faced with the question of choosing migration as a solution to our demographic challenges or the promotion of childbearing. At present, two positions conflict in Europe: those who want to tackle demographic problems through immigration, and the position of Central Europe and Hungary, according to which we must solve demographic problems on the basis of our own resources. We in Fidesz-KDNP have been working in recent years to strengthen families to give parents and future parents as much support as possible to have children and raise children. As a result, families have been receiving increasing support in recent years. On the other hand, Tamás Bauer, a politician of the Democratic Coalition, discussed that immigration is a more effective way of dealing with the demographic situation than having children, and considers children's rights to fathers and mothers to be discriminatory against equal couples, and that it would make support for families independent of work. The MSZP denies the existence of a family policy supporting parents and children in Hungary. The problem here is that the opposition does not understand why it is important that more Hungarian children are born and what is wrong with immigration. In Fidesz-KDNP, we fully support the national consultation on families, in which we asked all citizens about the protection of families, which will give good guidance so that the Hungarian family and population policy is as strong, effective and effective as possible. Dear Secretary of State, I ask why it is necessary to support Hungarian families instead of illegal migration. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-106	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák.
u2018-12-10-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, the question is not only for Hungary, but for Europe as a whole, the solution we choose to address our demographic problems. There is no European country today where enough children are born, and neither country has the birth rate to the extent that they can even keep their population. This is the case in Hungary, which is why we decided in 2010 to put the support of families first. We do not want to respond to our demographic challenges by mass introductions, not by migration, but by supporting childbearing. That is why we have doubled the amount of family support for 2019 compared to 2010, which is why we introduced the Gyed extra, which is why we introduced the family tax reduction, so we started a very serious home creation program, so we support reconciliation between work and family, so we help with as many tools as possible to bear children and raise children in a responsible way, I could mention either free children's meals or free textbooks or even the Elizabeth camps. We already have the results, because we haven't had a childbearing mood this high in 20 years, or we haven't had as many marriages as they did last year. We can't sit back at the same time, we still have a place to move forward, we still have decisions ahead of us. That is why we have launched a wide-ranging national consultation on the most important issues of fate for us. The fundamental question is what solution to choose for the future, and we still see the Hungarian future in support of families, in the birth of Hungarian children, in support of the birth of the desired children, we believe that we do, in this we ask for confirmation. There are also important issues in the national consultation, whether the right of children to mother and father or to raise responsible children, or the question of full-time motherhood, the possibility of further reconciliation between work and family. That is why we are asking everyone to take advantage of their democratic potential, to complete the national consultation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-108	Thank you, Secretary of State Katalin Novak. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Pintér, Member Sándor Szabó, Imre László, is not in the room; therefore, Tamás Herczeg, representative of Fidesz, who wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. What developments do the Government support Békéscsaba in the framework of the Modern Cities Programme? It's an address. Mr Tamás Herczeg has the floor.
u2018-12-10-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the Government of Hungary for considering Békéscsaba as a strategic partner within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities." As a result, I can say that the peaceful county seat has one of the most significant grants under the programme, and we can also say that in terms of per capita support, i.e. in terms of per capita support from the Modern Cities programme, the city is also prominent in terms of per capita population support. The peaceful county seat is therefore one of the most significant subsidies, since the government has provided over HUF 450 billion of development resources for regional development. Thanks to a grant of HUF 378 billion, the highly anticipated motorway connecting Békéscsaba with Kecskemét can be built, including the section between Békéscsaba-Nagykőrös and Nagykőrös-Kecskemét. In addition to this investment, more transport development projects will be implemented in the region, opening up new perspectives for those living in the region by joining the national network. In addition to transport development, various economic recovery projects are also particularly important, which will make the region attractive to investors and other economic operators, and the fact that these development investments will improve the quality of life of citizens living here, create new jobs, secure income for families, increase consumption, increase the service sector and boost tourism. [[16.10]] The implementation of programme elements in different areas of life is expected in this government cycle for the peaceful people of Csaba, including public education, sport, vocational training, local transport and higher education. Thanks to the support provided under the.Modern Cities programme, the quality of life of residents in Békéscsaba and its surroundings will improve, and the number of opportunities they can seize in different areas of life will show an increasing trend. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Minister and the Secretary of State what developments the Government supports Békéscsaba in the framework of the Modern Cities Programme. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-110	I would remind the congressman that it would have been possible for two minutes. I'm sorry I didn't warn you earlier. I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész.
u2018-12-10-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It'll take a short two minutes for everything to be listed in your mind. I'm sure you need to frame this huge support that you're getting for the city. First of all, before 2010, there was a complete reduction of the region, the whole of Peaceful, including Békéscsaba, which led to the loss of jobs, the producers did not find such a sense of production, so they left agricultural areas free, where appropriate, and I could list the many, many bad, negative decisions that the former socialist-liberal government has made the region suffer, including Békéscsaba. Therefore, in the first step, it was quite clear that the city's situation should be consolidated. The significant support that Békéscsaba received during consolidation helped them greatly, including the city. Second: indeed, it was necessary to conclude the contract of the Modern Cities programme. He will receive HUF 455 billion in the coming years and has already received it in Békéscsaba. Of these, they were actually contracted to 128 billion forints, and from more than 105 billion forints, which is perhaps one of the most important infrastructural developments, mostly in road construction. But I also need to list and list what is still aimed at Békéscsaba in terms of the programme "Modern Cities": job creation through the support of companies, knowledge with university opportunities; sport, which is important for young people, and tourism so that others can visit Békéscsaba and its surroundings. I would also like to thank the Member, the current leadership of the city and everyone who has done a great deal for Békéscsaba, for all the opportunities they have made together with the government and for the future, to serve the lives of the people who live there. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-112	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs is not in the Chamber, so the agenda for questions is closed. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The DK Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/3529 on the protection of the homeless. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, I note that the applicants for proposals for inclusion are not present in the Chamber. Article 39 of the Parliamentary Act. However, pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, the author is only required to be present in the case of motions on the agenda, i.e. in the series of items. In view of this and taking into account the interpretation provisions of the house rule 158. Article 17 of the Rules of Procedure, the absence of the Members who have tabled each motion shall not prevent disputes from taking place. Accordingly, we will continue our work on the agreed agenda. Dear Parliament, Thus, one representative per group of Members can now present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who wishes to speak in a two-minute time frame. I'll ask him how he's applying. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr János Volner, an independent Member.
u2018-12-10-113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After the left-wing and liberal parliamentary factions left the room, we stayed here to do the work that a Member of Parliament has to do, I would also like to comment on this proposal. As you may recall, my fellow Members, recently an amazing hysteria has begun on the Balliberal side in connection with changes in legislation on the homeless. Politicians have reacted extremely violently to what has happened, and have gone overboard, as the proposal before us shows. What's this about? The capital city's various public areas, mainly the capital's various public areas, also frequented by various busy tourists, were practically flooded by garbage heaps, and were inundated by people who are practically lying there in their own feces, vomit, begging, harassing people. The Jobbik has spoken against this earlier, and we, too, have spoken, and we have also made our proposals about this within the Parliament. At that time, we belonged to a political force called Jobbik, and it was still important that the public areas in the capital and everywhere where there is a similar mess, we repair and restore the legal conditions. The Group of our country would like to do the same again this time. We support, of course, that these unblessed conditions will be eliminated by the government and that it should take forward-looking measures to this end, but we also consider it very important to say that it is also important to move forward in the area of social care, including the homeless supply system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the need to improve and ensure that these people return to the labour market as much as possible. That's how it's gonna be. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-114	Thank you, Congressman János Volner. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Gábor Zombor asked to speak for two minutes. Congressman Gábor Zombor has the floor.
u2018-12-10-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to waste time, but in the Committee on Welfare, where we are together with Mr Volner, we have discussed this issue several times. After the adoption of the legislative amendment, the Committee on Welfare invited Mr Philip, Secretary of State, on this matter, to answer our questions in every detail. I believe that we have experienced a humane, humane attitude and professionalism, and that we have seen it ever since, and that we have received a reassuring answer to every question after which we had to say at the committee meeting that the pro-government majority is not willing to support this new bill for hysteria. Once again, the experience of the past period has shown that, with this attitude, this issue can be dealt with humanely, both by the police and by social workers and by official bodies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Zombor. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The author Gergely Arató is not in the room. Thus, Honourable Parliament, the decision will take place on Wednesday's sitting. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on certain measures to be taken in order to better recognise childbearing H/3601. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. [[16.20]] The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, I have previously explained that, in the case of the series of proposals, the absence of the Members who have tabled the individual motions does not prevent the discussion from taking place, and one representative per group of Members can now present his position within a two-minute time frame, as well as the first independent Member to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Jobbik... [[For signal:]] The machine is signaling, but it is not present, but Congresswoman Dóra Dúró is present. You have the floor.
u2018-12-10-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Childbearing is the most personal public issue, and, unfortunately, despite all government efforts, we still have not managed to reach the level of fertility in society, which would be acceptable for Hungary to become a growing nation again in the population of Hungary, so our Hungary Movement naturally supports all proposals and proposals that set the goal of increasing recognition of childbearing. At the same time, it is important to draw attention to the fact that it is not enough to think in financial terms, which is what this proposal is all about; it is specifically designed to reduce the tax burden on articles needed to raise children, which is already a very old opposition initiative, and it would really help families to provide them with a predictable vision in the long term, so that childbearing can become safer. At the same time, there is also a need for a change of perspective, because the inclusions that could have been true in a society 30 years ago are not necessarily true today, for example, the compatibility of employment and family formation, and I believe that it is also necessary to encourage a mother's age to be pushed out as little as possible, which is also the result of mass participation in higher education. Mária Kopp has already laid the foundations for family-friendly higher education, which I think is certainly forward-looking if Hungarian young people are thinking in large families, and thank God, the young Hungarians, if we ask them, want to have more children than the European average, but unfortunately these children cannot be born. I believe that all the measures that affect the recognition of childbearing support the ability of these children to be born, and that is why the Group of our country supports this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause for the independent congressmen.]]
u2018-12-10-118	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. I'll ask if anyone has anything to say. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The author is not in the courtroom. The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the immediate compensation of invalidity pensioners H/3464. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. As I have previously indicated, the absence of the representatives who have tabled each proposal for a series of proposals does not prevent discussions from taking place. I would like to ask if someone would like to comment on behalf of the political groups or on behalf of independent Members. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The author is not in the courtroom. The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. The MSZP Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the measures necessary for the practical implementation of the principle of equal pay for equal work " H/3126. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, As I indicated earlier, the absence of Members who have tabled individual motions does not prevent discussions from taking place. I am now expecting contributions from groups of representatives or from non-attached Members. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to István Apáti, an independent Member.
u2018-12-10-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Hungarian Movement supports the inclusion of this proposal in the series. It doesn't matter who makes the proposal, if it aims at the interests of forward-looking workers and, in this case, the increase of Hungarian wages, of course we support it. Not only is it possible for the Hungarian wage level to catch up as quickly as possible to the EU wage level, if you like, but also mainly to try to reduce wage inequalities within the country, both in the public sector and at the level of multinational companies, as well as in the case of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore necessary to review the fact that most state-owned companies urgently need to review what can cause wages in different parts of the country to be much lower than in the western part of Hungary, especially in Budapest, to the detriment of workers working in the eastern part of the country. The same is true for multinational companies: in their case, it is not justified that the same job, the same job, the same working time, but there is a huge difference, again to the detriment or disadvantage of workers in north-east Hungary. Last but not least, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, proposals should be launched, incentives should be put in place to eliminate this type of completely unjustified, unfounded and inexplicable inequalities as quickly as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause for the independent congressmen.]]
u2018-12-10-120	Thank you, Congressman Abbot. The author is not in the courtroom; I have not received any other notice of opposition. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue proposed that the Parliament decide to amend Act L. of 2018 on the Central Budget of Hungary for 2019, entitled T/3046. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. I indicated earlier that, in the case of series of initiatives, the absence of the Members who have tabled the individual motions would not prevent discussions from taking place. I am asking if someone would like to comment on the part of the independent, on the part of the political groups. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The author is not in the courtroom. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the establishment of an investigation committee for the Hungarian state bodies, entitled H/3731, which explores the involvement and involvement of the former Prime Minister of Macedonia in his escape from the final judicial judgment in Hungary. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. I have previously indicated that the absence of the Members who have tabled the motions is not an obstacle to the conduct of the debates. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr János Volner.
u2018-12-10-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although the left-wing and liberal opposition has left, we are obliged to comment on this proposal and to do the work that the rapporteur has not done, because we agree with the proposal. What are we talking about here, fellow Members? The fact that the former Macedonian Prime Minister was practically accepted by the government in Hungary, did not act against him, did not expose this man to justice, to his mother country, caused a significant scandal in Hungary. We have encountered a number of question marks in this case, and they are cured by the proposal before us. It is necessary to clarify why the government has deviated from the normal timetable for extradition of similar persons, why it has not implemented the provisions of the extradition agreement, why it has not acted in order to issue this man. [[16.30]] It is also part of a long series of questions about what Hungarian diplomacy has done, if any, to ensure that this Mr Gruevski can travel to Hungary. Smuggler's Hungarian diplomats this man to Hungary? There are question marks on this one as well. Did the Hungarian diplomacy or any other body entrusted with justice, law enforcement or constitutional protection tasks contribute to allowing this person to travel to Hungary and gain admission here? Which politicians was Mr Gruevski involved with? Who did you negotiate with to allow your admission and reception to take place in this way? These are legitimate questions that have not been clarified to this day. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to propose and support the professional and thorough investigation of these with the support of the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2018-12-10-122	Thank you, Congressman Volner. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see an application, there's no author in the courtroom, so the decision will take place on Wednesday's sitting day. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the minimum programme for Education, H/2959. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. The absence of the author is not an obstacle to the conduct of the debates, so I ask if anyone would like to comment. [[For signal:]] I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró in two minutes.
u2018-12-10-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The preparation of this minimum education programme was carried out before the parliamentary elections, but I could not give my name to this, and the reasons for this are set out below. I would like to highlight three areas on which I cannot agree with these provisions. One is the abolition of everyday physical education, the other is the abolition of faith and ethics, and the elimination of the obligation of faith and ethics classes, and the third is the forced integration of Gypsy at all costs. Since I have the opportunity to comment in two minutes, I cannot express my opinion in detail on all three proposals or points, so I would like to select the daily physical education on which I would like to draw the attention of the Parliament to further work. Since its introduction in 2012, many people have hoped that the introduction of daily physical education will encourage the government to also provide the necessary infrastructure, which, according to the government's own declaration, was not available when this introduction took place. However, according to the official information of EMMI's press department, 21 gymnasiums were delivered across the country between 2012 and 2017, so that the number of gymnasiums increased by twenty-one, while more than one million children were required to have daily physical education classes, which resulted in either not having these classes, or in circumstances that provide children with inadequate needs. So if the introduction were really followed by much more extensive infrastructure development, then there would indeed be the effect of everyday physical education, because the measurements unfortunately do not show the progress that the government would have expected. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2018-12-10-124	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The author is not in the courtroom. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the new organisational order of the Hungarian Defence Office and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/3291. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3291 amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of a new organizational order of the Hungarian Defence Office. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It was supported by 23 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. Allow me to briefly address the main elements of the bill before us. The amendment to the Act on the status of civil servants should be mentioned immediately in the beginning, with the aim of standardising the legislation on remuneration and unpaid leave in the form of legal status laws for purposes of foreign service. For example, the purpose of the amendment of the Social Insurance Pension Act is to show the number, amount and age statistics required for the budget planning of the Hungarian Defence Forces, as well as to determine the amount of allowances, reimbursements, discounts and subsidies to retired soldiers and their close relatives and partners. Another important part of the bill is the amendment of the law on the protection of classified information, which aims to eliminate a deficiency, resulting from the fact that Hungarian law does not recognise part of the operational classified information generated in connection with international operations as classified data. In the international operations of the Hungarian Defence Forces, he uses data to which access has been restricted in accordance with the requirements of the operation. In operations in which the requirements for the processing and use of data are not determined by NATO or the EU, the entities or persons of the Hungarian Defence Agency involved in operations process classified operational data without being subject to Hungarian law, the Hungarian law does not protect such data. The increased protection is justified by the fact that participation in the operation is always carried out on the basis of a parliamentary mandate, and the rules governing the operation are always signed by the authorised institution, i.e. the soldiers should be treated with this data and protected from unauthorised access, but in some cases this is not covered by Mv. , MH Vtv. the scope of the Criminal Code and other relevant legislation. In addition to the above, it also includes important changes to the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence and measures that may be implemented in special legal order, amendments to the law on the status of military defenders, and amendments to the law on central government administration and the legal status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said above, we can conclude that we can talk about a series of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes, so please support us in adopting the bill. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-126	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Hubay, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee.
u2018-12-10-127	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, At its meeting on 22 November 2018, the Defence and Police Committee discussed T/3291. Bill No. 1 on the amendment of individual laws in connection with the establishment of a new organizational order of the Hungarian Defence Office. No amendments were tabled to the bill. [[16.40]] However, the Committee has made an amendment to the codification clarification. With this in mind, I would like to ask the House and my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-128	Thank you, Congressman Hubay. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mr János Volner, an independent Member.
u2018-12-10-129	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I see Mr Szilárd Németh here in the benches, I would like to appeal to the Member to make a proposal. We have already said this in a five-party discussion. Our proposal is that it will be worth continuing government thinking in the direction that those who wish to carry out their duties of defence with a voluntary operational reserve or reserve reserve in the future should be given tax relief by the State to their employers and to those who carry out the defence task themselves, in order to compensate for certain disadvantages. If we are now thinking that there is a migration crisis or a natural disaster, and these people are being used, where appropriate, to eliminate, prevent, save the population, or, say, as a retreating stock in the case of voluntary operational reserveers, even for hinterland protection tasks, it is important that, in these people, the disadvantages caused by the conduct of such a soldier are compensated by the state in some way. So I would ask Mr Szilárd Németh to forward this to the government. This is a professional proposal, we recognise several international examples, and this has been described in detail in the five-party consultation at the time, and we will do so later. The government should be kind enough to support this because I believe it will move the country forward. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2018-12-10-130	Thank you, Congressman Volner. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] Secretary of State says yes. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, State Secretary.
u2018-12-10-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government will consider a proposal from Congressman. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-10-132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the status of defence staff and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/3621. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3621 on the status of defence employees. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. Let us briefly say a few words about the main elements of the bill before us. From 1 January 2019, the defence portfolio intends to introduce a new legal status with the name of defence employees, in the form of a separate law. The legal basis for the bill on the status of defence employees is the XXXIII of the year XXX on the status of civil servants. The rules of law constitute, however, the features that go hand in hand with the rights of defence employees. The background legislation of the proposal is, like Kjt., Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code. At the same time, the status of defence staff will be fully independent of Kjt. The aim of the proposal is to shift sectoral, i.e. defence employment rules towards standardisation. The Kjt. the living conditions of employees subject to the scope of the same law, but they may differ widely. The Kjt. The regulation of the sector's specialties now appears to be fragmented, in educational, educational, higher education, healthcare services or non-medical services institutions, but also in the case of civil servants in the defence sector, it knows a number of specific rules. The proposal, though basically the Kjt. Follows its rules, but at several points, the 2012 CCV on the status of military defenders. Takes over the provisions of law. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] In addition to the need to standardise the defence sector, the need for the proposal is also reinforced by the fact that it is not a novelty in all respects. The Kjt. is currently aware of the special rules for civil servants of the military, which are not in principle applicable. A defence employee is a civil servant employed in the defence organisation, i.e. a civilian employee who, on the basis of his appointment, undertakes to contribute to the provision of public services under the responsibility of the Hungarian Defence Office, and to participate in the annual training courses required by the Ministerial Decree in respect of his field. It is recommended to compensate for fundamental rights restrictions and additional obligations in relation to civil servants with additional benefits. From 1 January 2019, at the same time as the introduction of a defence employee status, the legal relationship of civil servants employed in defence organisations will be transformed into a defence employee law by virtue of the law. As of 1 January 2019, a defence staff relationship will be established for non-professional or contractual military or government service tasks. Dear House, In view of what has just been said, we can say that we are talking about a package of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes, and I would therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-134	Thank you, Congressman László Horváth. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Szilárd Németh, if he would like to comment now. [[István Szilárd Németh: Thank you very much, no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that you have the right to reply [[Németh Szilárd István: Answering will be difficult!]] and wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak.
u2018-12-10-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This is because two of these important laws dealing with the future status of the Hungarian Defence Office and the future status of the Ministry... and we are creating this new legal environment, which can be found in this legislative amendment package and in the new law, so that the programme of defence and force development of Zrínyi 2026, as required by the government and Parliament's decisions, can be implemented. 'Cause what's this about? About the fact that the Hungarian Defence Office is practically the most important guardian and guarantee of the security of Hungarian people, the sovereignty and peace of Hungary. And we want to develop this Hungarian Defence Agency, and this requires a new legislative environment. You can see behind me the empty benches of the opposition. I'd have waited for them to comment. Although, let us add that in the general debate, the quality of the comments and the nature of the comments leave something to be desired, both in preparation and in style. But you should still be here when the Parliament decides on this important issue. [[16.50]] The Hungarian opposition reached the point, from left to right, so I could mention all the factions, from DK to MSZP, from Dialogue, to LMP to Jobbik, that the most important comment was on the handcuffs and prison life of MEPs, by former Secretary of State for Defence Ágnes Vadai. The Hungarian opposition has come to the point where this has already been the chimborassó of the decoy, which is about the implementation of the plan of defence and force development of the Zrinyi 2026, and the risk of the Hungarian soldiers, if you will, to waste water and safety, that Márta Demeter, abusing his right to represent here, mentioned that one of the important parts of this amendment is the protection of non-public data and classified information, which has been obtained from such non-public data, has been nicely falsified and published non-public data. It is amazing that the Hungarian opposition has so much of this. They proved it in their entirety during the debate of these two legislative proposals, and today they made the point that the Hungarian people cannot count on them to defend their country, and they can only rely on the work of the government and the government parties. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-136	Thank you, Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/3295. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation is held by the Parliament as an EU item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3295 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. The bill before us contains clarification and forward-looking provisions on certain transport issues in a number of regulatory areas. Dear Parliament, The bill includes amendments to a number of sectoral regulations, and one of the main points of the motion is the so-called railway package, which meets the requirements of harmonisation arising from membership of the European Union. The purpose of the proposal is to introduce the necessary legislative changes to the legislation in force in the field of transport. The amendments are intended to improve the implementation of transport infrastructure, investment and the modernisation of the existing regulatory environment. The proposal proposes, inter alia, the introduction of market surveillance in order to facilitate the efficient and smooth functioning of the bus and coach passenger market and to promote fair and effective competition in the market. The measure will enable domestic companies to prepare in good time for operating on an orderly, regulated market in the bus and coach road passenger market, which will open in 2019. The bill also covers the provisions on driving and testing and examiners. It is important for the government to ensure continuous development in the transport sectors in Hungary. The bill contains a number of measures and clarifications which improve the conditions for domestic transport in all sectors, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the motion tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-138	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Laszlo Mosóczi: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-12-10-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for the honourable attention given to the proposal to amend certain transport laws. The comments made by the fellow Members during the general debate showed a thorough knowledge of the draft. At the same time, the draft law indicates its proper professional preparation that the proposal for an amendment concerning its merits has not been submitted, despite strong interest. The Commission's amendment, which concluded the detailed debate, is mainly intended to convey technical clarifications and language-placed comments. It can therefore be said that we agree with the professional objectives set out in the bill. The basic aim of the bill is to increase the quality and sustainability of transport, to improve the quality of life and safety of people, to strengthen the country's competitiveness, to be a government direction the importance of which is difficult to dispute. The proposed legislation will help to achieve the goals set by the government by mapping technical progress at the legislative level, harmonising legislation and ensuring consistency with the domestic legal system. The bill includes the following key elements for each part of transport. On the one hand, the bill helps investment in transport infrastructure, creating an opportunity to modify the regulation on target-producing sites to make investments faster, more economical and less environmentally responsible. The amendment of the Toll Act facilitates the use of cross-border charging sections for road users. Under the new provision, in the case of paid sections linked to the state border, the cross-border traffic may purchase its entitlement without imposing a surcharge on the first possible spot. In the field of driver training, the purpose of the amendment is to improve road safety and reduce the administrative burden on customers and the waiting time for examinations by installing the test tasks of public road drivers to an independent, state-owned organisation. The improvement of the conditions for cycling is supported by an amendment to the interpretation of the law, which clarifies that the assets generated by the value-enhancing investments carried out by the operator of the bicycle routes on municipal bicycle roads will not remain the property of the road operator after the technical transfer, but will be transferred free of charge to the competent municipality. The amendments to the Aviation Act ensure full consistency with the provisions of the General Administrative Regulation Act and the coordination of the time limits for the administration of military aviation and civil aviation authorities. In addition to the amendment of the law, it also contains legal harmonisation clarifications. The 2005 CLXXXIV on the professional investigation of air, rail and water traffic accidents and other traffic incidents. The amendment of the Act aims to harmonise legislation and facilitates the employment of workers of the safety organisation. The amendment of two additional laws is also necessary in order to harmonise EU legislation and to prepare for the inevitable market opening under EU rules. The amendment of the Rail Transport Act lays down guarantees to ensure the impartial and impartial operation of vertically integrated undertakings, such as the MÁV group, including the railway infrastructure manager, in accordance with the related EU Directive. [[17.00]] This is necessary in order to ensure a level playing field for freight and passenger transport companies in railway infrastructure. The purpose of the amendment to the Passenger Transport Act is also to bring the legislation into line with the provisions of the EU directives. The proposed amendment establishes a legal framework for market surveillance of road passenger transport services, as in the case of rail market surveillance rules. This will make it possible to impose sanctions on service providers who fail to comply with the provisions on the carriage of passengers by bus and coach. The legislation is particularly timely in view of the fact that in 2020 the bus and coach road passenger market will be opened in Hungary. Market surveillance enables domestic bus undertakings to prepare for market opening requirements in a well-ordered and regulated market. Dear House, The amendment of individual transport laws is a comprehensive amendment, which has been reviewed and analysed in the depth of the political groups during the general debate. However, there was no need to change the content of the bill in addition to the technical clarifications contained in the Commission's amendment proposal. In view of the fact that no change has been made in the substance of the proposal regarding the text of the comprehensive proposal covering several areas of the transport sector, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/3295 on the amendment of certain laws relating to transport matters is adopted. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-140	Thank you, Secretary of State László Mosóczi, for your speech. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that at the end of the debate, if he wishes to conclude, he has four minutes left. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask Mr Mosóczi, Secretary of State, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak, to close. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to research and development and vocational training are now under discussion and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3296. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3296 on the amendment of certain laws relating to research and development and vocational training. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear House, The bill consists of three main parts. First, it proposes to amend the Kossuth Prize and the Széchenyi Prize Act with a view to giving Széchenyi Prize winners aged 65 and over a regular monthly allowance for their scientific creative work and excellence. On the other hand, the bill proposes the introduction of a well-functioning chancellor model in vocational education and training centres, which is already in place and functioning in higher education institutions, by amending the VET Act. In our view, this is necessary so that the Directors-General of Vocational Training Centres can further focus on their primary task of monitoring the professional activities and the quality of education of the institutions they manage. Finally, thirdly, the bill aims to promote the exploitation of intellectual works created at research centres financed by the central budget, including universities, by a targeted amendment of the Scientific Research, Development and Innovation Act and the National Higher Education Act. This will create a regulatory environment in which intellectual works created at publicly funded research centres become the property of the research site, resulting in the involvement of these actors in the protection of their intellectual property and the commercial exploitation of their intellectual property. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, we believe, deserves support, as the new regulatory framework allows for the construction of supporting, assisting and catalysing factors for the innovation ecosystem, especially the university-based innovation ecosystem. On this basis, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State as his representative. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated cultural committee. We now have the speeches from the Members, and we have the opportunity to speak. I ask my fellow Members, and they wish to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'm asking the Secretary of State if you want one. [[Signal.]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-10-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3296 on the amendment of laws relating to research and development and vocational training. In the course of a detailed discussion of the legislative proposal No.3 on minor issues, the Parliament can help to bring vocational training and research and development to an even higher level in Hungary. The first part of the bill, the introduction of scientific creator's allowance for scientists over the age of 65, received serious support not only from the governing parties but also from the opposition. Unfortunately, the second part of the bill, in the context of the amendments on vocational training, has shown once again that there are few cases that opposition parties would not be willing to submit to their political rhetoric. Although they also agreed on the need for further improvements, they did not make any substantive, forward-looking proposals. Looking back on what has been said in the debate, it is perhaps worth saying and setting out what the proposed amendments to the vocational training system are about. On the one hand, the introduction of the chancellor's system... by setting up a new professional, by integrating it into the structure, can help the professional work. After very serious work is being done, teaching, educating and vocational training work is being carried out at vocational training centres, it was necessary to have an expert in farming who can manage proper farming with the eyes of a good farmer as a professional. The third part of the bill aims to create a regulatory environment for the exploitation of intellectual property created at university research centres financed by the central budget. In the speech by Mr Horváth, the reasons and the need for this amendment have been said, and I do not wish to repeat it. Returning a little to vocational training: digital knowledge in vocational training is disseminated within the framework of the digital welfare programme, and the legislative environment is covered by this bill. I would like to thank everyone for their opinion during the hearing of the bill, and I would ask you, after the majority of the amendments were agreed and supported by the opposition, so that they can support the bill with their vote. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2018-12-10-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, There will be a debate on the Commission's summary reports on the amendment of energy laws and certain climate policy and tax legislation and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/3624. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, and it will be possible to speak within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3624 on the amendment of laws on energy and certain laws on climate policy and taxation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. The bill before you contains several substantial amendments to energy and climate policy. As regards mining, the proposed amendment of the law refines the regulation on mining activities. It strengthens the provisions on certain issues, such as in the event of a default of payment obligations, in order to facilitate the situation of sector actors in other aspects, including through clarification or competitive measures in relation to thermal water-derived hydrocarbons. The proposal contains a number of amendments in the area of district heating, electricity supply and gas supply, sometimes carried out in parallel with the regulation of certain types of supply. In all three areas, it would be possible to bring about a single set of procedures, including complaint procedures or procedures for certain company-law events. LXXXI of 1996 on corporate tax and dividends. Act LXVII of 2008 and Act LXVII of 2008 on making district heating more competitive The amendment of the Act aims at establishing tax-related rules for the system of balancing payments to be introduced by the Electricity Act, and also relates to payments related to the reduction of gas by winter. Dear Parliament, We have also put forward a number of forward-looking proposals to this House in the area of climate protection. The 2012 CCXVII on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. In addition to strengthening the authority's powers of control, the amendment of the Act will not only strengthen, but also the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the installation operators, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. With the law, the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary is reduced, primarily by bureaucratic burdens. In view of all this, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-12-10-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors at this stage of the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-10-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said in the detailed debate, T/3624. Bill No.3 aims to amend seven laws on energy and two laws on climate policy and two laws on taxation in relation to energy legislation. The amendments are required by the official experience of the law enforcement of the past period, the changes in the energy sector and the measures taken. As regards mining, the proposed amendment of the law refines the regulation on mining activities. It strengthens the provisions on certain issues, such as in the event of default of payment obligations, and improves the situation of sectoral actors by means of competitive measures on other issues. The proposal also includes a number of amendments in the area of district heating, electricity supply and gas supply, sometimes carried out in parallel with the regulation of certain types of supply. In all three areas, it would be possible to standardise procedures, including complaint procedures or procedures for certain company-law events. Proposals to strengthen consumer protection aspects for electricity and gas supply include re-regulation of market surveillance and an increase of the limitation period for complaint procedures and contractual claims from two to three years. The amendment of the law, in line with today's challenges, will give rise to the spread of digital solutions in services for consumers. The amendment introduces EU data requirements in the area of gas supply. The amendment also allows the efficiency-enhancing and cost-optimal effect of the establishment of a national public utility service to be taken into account in price regulation as from 1 January 2019. The redesign of the system of balancing payments for electricity brings even more significant innovation. In the future, we propose that countervailing payments be made not by reducing specific charges, but by making lump sum payments. Two proposals concern the domestic reserves of hydrocarbons. The reason behind the amendment of the Gas Security Stockpiling Act is that it allows for greater involvement of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association, which is the owner of the gas storage facility. The amendment of the law on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products ensures that the oil and gas sections have the same weight in the decision-making of the General Assembly of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association. We have also put forward a number of forward-looking proposals to this House in climate protection, and I believe that, taking into account what has been said in the general debate, we can speak of full agreement in this area. The most important element of the bill in terms of climate protection is that it requires that revenues from emissions trading be spent entirely on reducing emissions and investing in energy efficiency within the green investment system. In addition, the purpose of the bill is to lighten the burden on businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises, by amending the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol implementing framework. The changes are justified by the practical experience gained so far, as a result of which the 6 months delay in payment of the climate protection fine will be extended to 12 months, and will also result in 12 months in instalments instead of 6 months in instalments. Finally, I would also like to mention the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act, which is primarily aimed at clarifying and clarifying the conceptual framework on the basis of practical experience. With the amendments presented, we can make significant progress in our energy and climate legislation and climate protection. In view of what has been said above, I would ask you to support the amendment during the vote. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to public asset management and national financial services, as well as on the submission of certain provisions concerning municipal property, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/3369. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. [[17.20]]
u2018-12-10-149	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state assets and national financial services, as well as provisions concerning certain municipal assets, T/3369. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 3 against and 5 abstentions. One of the fundamental objectives of the bill is to broaden the development banking framework of the Hungarian Development Bank Privately operating Company in order to ensure that MFB Zrt. be more effective in providing the necessary development resources for achieving the economic development goals set by the government's medium- and long-term economic strategy. The motion contains amendments to national assets and to the management of national assets aimed at creating the necessary amending provisions for a uniform interpretation of the law, and to legislating the changes that have taken place in recent years in relation to national assets and those involved in the management of assets. As regards local authorities, the amendment of the municipal law complements the rules on the free transfer of municipal property in the management of municipal assets. The amendment expands the scope of the beneficiaries of the free transfer of assets in accordance with the rules on the free transfer of state assets with the Church, the Church Legal Person, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Academy of Arts and public benefit organisations. The amending provisions also state that the decision on the free transfer of municipal property falls within the exclusive competence of the body of representatives and that the decision of the body of representatives on this subject is taken by a qualified majority. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to enable the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions to perform their institutional protection tasks more effectively in respect of organisations under the control of members of the cooperative credit institution integration, so that the draft legislation also provides the integration organisation with the regulatory competence of the directive in relation to related undertakings, in order to ensure legal functioning. In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Varga Simeon applauds.]]
u2018-12-10-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr János Fónagy, Minister of State, as rapporteur, at this stage of the debate or at a later stage... [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you later.]] Yes, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I ask my fellow Members, they wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who now wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2018-12-10-151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you concerns the regulatory issues under the responsibility of the Minister without a wallet for the management of national assets and creates an appropriate legal environment for national assets and national financial services. The amendment of the law on state property and national property will help the application of the law, resulting in a more uniform legal system, greater legal certainty and greater trust among citizens. By amending the quay law, we want to ensure the uniform management of property along the Danube coast. The amendment of the municipal law adapts the provision on the responsible management of municipal assets to the provisions governing the management of state assets in respect of the free transfer of assets. It does so without endangering the mandatory tasks of the local government transferred to the competence of the body of representatives. In order to ensure the material and material conditions necessary for the continuation of the activities of the churches, the municipal-owned Premontre Park of Csorna will be granted free ecclesiastical ownership. In Parliament's decision-making, a further amendment to the restructuring of cooperatives was added to the draft legislation concerning the integration of cooperative credit institutions. The proposal strengthens integration, unified business development and internal prudent operation. In support of the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee as a result of the parliamentary work, MNB Zrt. has been clarified. provisions on data protection in the regulatory area of its activities. In addition to the above amendments, several amendments were proposed by the Commission, which included linguistic and legal clarifications in the text. Thank you for the supportive work of this House and the committees, with which you have contributed to the clarification of the text of the bill and its technical addition. Dear House, The regulatory objectives set by the bill will further rationalise the management of national assets and contribute to the development of national financial services. Based on all this, I would like to ask you that T/3369. Please support bill No 1 and the amendment that summarises it. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, for your opportunity. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-10-152	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the implementation of public civil engineering investments and the overall amendment proposal. The government referral is T/3367. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3367 on the implementation of state-owned civil engineering investments. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions. The government has set itself the goal of preparing and implementing state-owned civil engineering investments in Hungary in a new system. This requires not only the development of a new concept of public investment, but also the creation of an organisation capable of guaranteeing the implementation of cost-effective, timely and both aesthetically and functionally high-value works, while keeping public interests fully in mind. The Government proposes that, above a certain ceiling, the State carry out a new structure that clearly determines the responsibilities of the civil engineering investments, and that, after determining the real cost of the investment, only the financial resources necessary for the implementation should be provided, and that a legal entity with a special status, the investment agency, with its own budgetary resources, coordinate the process of preparing the investment and carry out its construction phase. It is part of the new concept of construction investment that the entity responsible for managing the investment carried out should be designated at the beginning of the implementation of the investment and participate in the preparation and execution of the investment. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-10-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy as rapporteur that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you, Mr. President, at the end.]] Yes, the Secretary of State wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. [[17 .30]] It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members, someone wishes to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-10-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to provide the necessary regulatory framework for implementing the government's new state-building concept. The government is committed to the coordinated implementation of public civil engineering investments, with a view to achieving a uniform system for the implementation of public civil engineering investments. The proposal sets out the instruments and the institutional system needed for this purpose. It is also necessary to prepare and implement public civil engineering investments in a new system to create an organisation capable of guaranteeing the full respect of public interests, and to facilitate the cost-effective implementation of works from central budgetary sources, both aestheticly and functionally of outstanding value, by the deadline. As a result of Parliament's work, we have clarified the relevant tasks of the State by adopting the amendment tabled by the Economic Committee. In order for the investment agency to be gradually involved in the implementation of public high-building investments, the provisions on municipal high-building investments using central budget support will enter into force at a later date in 2020. Thank you for the supportive professional work of the House and the committees, with which you have contributed to the clarity and clarification of the text of the bill. Dear House, To achieve the objectives set, the adoption of the proposal is a great help, and I therefore ask you that T/3367. Please support bill No 1 and the amendment that summarises it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on ensuring the home creation of natural persons involved in the National Asset Management Programme and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. Government referral T/3604. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3604 on the provision of housing for natural persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. As a result of the economic crisis in the years 2007-2008, a significant proportion of property owners with foreign currency credit have been caught in a foreign exchange trap. At that time, the government did not pay sufficient attention to the situation of foreign exchange lenders, which caused many to lose their homes. On 30 May 2011, the Fidesz-KDNP government announced the establishment of the National Asset Manager in order to purchase the housing of the most socially deprived lenders. On this basis, the 2011 CLXX on the provision of housing for natural persons who cannot fulfil their obligations under the credit agreement. According to the provisions of the Act, the Hungarian State provided for the purchase of residential property for the most socially dependent natural person, after which it continued to ensure the housing of the creditor and the persons living with him in the household against the payment of rent in the purchased residential property. The State performs these tasks through the National Asset Management Private Limited Company. As a result of the positive changes in the economy in 2018, the government decided to further assist the natural persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme with the initiative of this bill by providing them with the opportunity to create a home. The government's goal is to give back to the troubled people their homes, which were previously taken from them by the banks. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] The Secretary of State indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage of the debate on behalf of the rapporteur. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I ask my fellow Members, they wish to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-12-10-159	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to bring back the homes, homes, previously taken from them by the banks, to people in trouble because of foreign exchange loans by means of a law initiated by the government. The proposal allows tenants who regularly pay rent to regain ownership of their former homes. In the case of the purchase of the property by the tenant, the government provides an extremely favourable buy-back conditions and the purchase price of the property is the National Asset Management Ltd. the amount corresponding to the purchase price paid for the property. In the case of a lump sum buy-back, the purchase price is reduced by the amount of rent previously paid by the tenant, interest is not charged by the State and an additional percentage is available. The buy-back may, of course, be carried out by way of a partial withdrawal. The government intends to remove a significant additional burden on the people by proposing that the financial and procedural obligations arising from the acquisition of property should be borne by the State. In addition, close relatives of tenants can make use of the discount offer. The proposal also ensures that anyone who does not wish to make use of the government's offer can continue to be a tenant in the property, subject to the current rent payment. In the event of the adoption of the bill, the tenants will receive a detailed written offer on the options presented above, no later than the end of March 2019. I would also ask the participants in the NEP programme, either through you, my fellow Members, to ask the National Asset Manager with confidence in any questions that may arise, and to submit their statements on the government's proposal on a deadline. [[17.40]] Dear House, As a result of Parliament's work, by adopting the amendment tabled by the Economic Committee, we have clarified the declaration to maintain the tenant's tenant's tenant status, so that it is acceptable even if only one of the tenant's partners makes a statement and the other tenants do not submit a statement. In Parliament's decision-making, in addition to the above substantive amendment, a number of Commission amendments have been made to the bill, which included clarification of language, legal and linguistic coherence in the text. I thank the committees for their supporting professional work, with which they have contributed to clarifying, clarifying, and sometimes supplementing the text of the bill on a professional basis. Dear House, In my view, the objective set by the bill will, on the one hand, help to solve the problems of people in difficulty due to foreign exchange credit by contributing to the long-term home creation of those participating in the NET programme, so I call on this House to ensure that T/3604. Please support bill No 1 and the amendment that summarises it. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, for your opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our Wednesday meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain family support and pension insurance laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/3127. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 29 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3127 amendment of certain family support and pension insurance laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. By 25 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions. The concept of the proposal before the National Assembly amends the central register kept for institutional and financing control in a more precise, simplified manner, in view of the specific characteristics of the day-to-day care of children, and provides sufficient preparation time for the local authorities involved in the obligation to ensure full care in kindergartens. In addition, the proposal contains clarifications and additions in the context of pension law, in particular on the basis of legislative comments. For example, the bill extends the range of private learners entitled to orphanage, or states, for example, that the operation of the accident can only be justified by a decision issued in the specific procedure establishing it and that the procedure is adapted to the rules of the related procedure. In order to avoid potential abuse, the case law requires that the pensioner has the right to dispose of the account to which his pension is paid. The pension decision may differ not only in terms of amounts but also in relation to other conditions, such as the date of retirement in the case of a family pension. In the case of the social institutional placement of the child, the parent is, as a general rule, excluded from entitlement to the family allowance, since the requirement of education in his own household is not met. At the same time, the bill expands the range of children who are cared for in their own household. Dear Parliament, In view of the above, please support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State has indicated that she does not wish to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. I would like to inform you that the designated Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking you, someone wants to live with this. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. János Bencsik and Dr. Judit Bertalan, Fidesz, MEPs submitted T/3627. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Bencsik that he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[János Bencsik: At the end.]] The Member indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking you, would someone like to take this opportunity? [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When Dr. Judit Bertalan and I drafted this bill, it was the daily practical experience that led us to do so. After all, citizens who receive a temporary mining allowance are, according to our experience, represented in our economic region as a labour force and a reserve with substantial and significant experience for the local economy, but thus also for the national economy. If my age is still young, they are relatively young to qualify for a temporary mining allowance, because working 25 years underground or 5 thousand underground shifts is a fundamental criterion for assessing entitlement to annuity. If one started his career as a miner when he was 18 years old, or even before that, he could become a temporary miner by the age of 40 or a few years, fulfilling the 25-year-old underground working criterion. A 45-50-year-old, let's just say, a young man who has a disciplined, qualified qualifications, is an excellent workforce reserve for the local economy. Under these regulatory circumstances, they also have the opportunity to take up work, but if the income of those receiving temporary mining benefits exceeds 18 times the minimum wage for the relevant year, they must stop working, as they cannot pass this income ceiling without temporarily losing their entitlement to benefits. This, on the other hand, strengthens the grey economy, and on the wrong hand, the workers say that they do not want to work. Why is this so important and important, despite the fact that 3 thousand Hungarian citizens are affected by this issue in Hungary? Because in 2010 we achieved with the support of the government that the Vértes Power Plant, which was condemned by the Socialist Government to close, could continue to operate, this power plant was still operating in Russia for about seven years. [[17.50]] All those miners who have not yet reached the limit of entitlement to work under the ground or, in view of the 25-year period, have moved to this area, become an annuity, and have not moved back to their original place of residence. So there are more than a thousand, nearly 1,200 potential workers living and living in this narrow Tata, Tatabánya, Russian girl region. With this amendment of the law, we can abolish this upper pay limit, so that they can work the whole year with a calm conscience, with a calm heart, without losing their entitlement to a temporary mining allowance. I thank you with respect for the understanding and support of fellow Members, which you have explained in the general debate and in the detailed debate. It should also be said that there were some opposition representatives who did not consider this appropriate or necessary, but their criticism is also dampened by the fact that a single amendment has not been tabled, so that we can prepare with a calm conscience for the final vote on the bill, and we are confident that this 3,000 fellow citizens who have gained a period of service for temporary mining benefits, with a considerable risk to their entire life, will be able to continue to increase their family and family members, free from the possible harassment of labour authorities. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health and health insurance legislation and certain health-related legislation and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/3626. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3626. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. This includes the Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Welfare to conclude a detailed debate and the TAB's own amendment. Dear Parliament, The proposal provides for the possibility of sanctioning healthcare providers who fail to fulfil their obligation to provide data on a continuous basis or who fail to comply with a deficiency notice. In addition, the bill provides the opportunity for the National Blood Supply Service to record data on the blood group in the ESPT system. The health profile service in the ESZT ensures that the patient's most typical health summary data and their health profile can be recorded. The purpose of the establishment of disease registers is to prevent and monitor patients in order to register these diseases for groups of diseases with a significant burden of disease at public or individual level, which are of major importance for public health purposes. It will do so in order to analyse data that facilitates the implementation and implementation of effective professional policy programmes. The purpose of the amendment is also to ensure that insured persons, public servants and their family members who are permanently employed in a Member State of the European Economic Area have access to health insurance benefits in the host State under the same conditions. At present, in the case of public employees, the cost of benefits is reimbursed to a different extent in respect of family members, with equal contributions, depending on the country in which the State employee is resident in the Member State or third country of the European Economic Area. This distinction may also exist between the Member States of the European Economic Area, as the amount of the contribution to be paid by the recipients of healthcare services may vary according to the legislation of the host country. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill with your vote. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Madam State Secretary indicated that she did not wish to speak at this stage of the debate on behalf of the authors. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on sport and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/3371. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 29 November 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3371 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, with 8 abstentions. The bill allows significant innovations in Hungarian sports life. Its main objective is, inter alia, to facilitate the widest possible use of state aid for sport, to supplement the rules on sports organisations and to clarify the safety requirements for sporting events. The amendments to the proposal concern a number of areas of particular importance, such as the addition of sports status by introducing registered leisure sports status. It includes extending the employment opportunities of professional athletes, clarifying the legal conditions of national sports professional associations and the rules on court registration, amending tasks and competences in support of visual team sports, the rules on Olympic annuities, the representation of government actors in relation to high-level sports events, the order of processing of personal data, including the provision of data protection regulations and NSR tasks, and clarifying the concept of Olympic and Paralympic events and sports academies. Ladies and gentlemen, An important part of the bill before us is also the definition of tasks related to national and international cooperation and platform against the illicit influence of sports competitions, which became necessary following the publication of the relevant convention. [[18.00]] The present draft is supported by the Fidesz-KDNP Fragmentation Association, because the amendments contained in the bill have addressed the issues raised by government, public bodies and national sports associations in the past. This legislation is necessary to facilitate the control of the application of law and the use of grants. On this basis, I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-10-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State indicated that she did not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take this opportunity within the time-frame on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain social, child protection and related legislation and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/3623. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-169	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain social, child protection and other related laws T/3623. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. This includes the Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Welfare to conclude a detailed debate and the TAB's own amendment. Dear Parliament, The law introduces the adoption fee as a new health insurance cash benefit, which is identical in terms of terms and amount to the law. Its duration is 168 days according to the weed and follows the adoption of all children over the age of 2 and under the age of 18. On the other hand, it allows foster parents to use the child with regard to their foster child. For those who care for their children who are unable to self-care due to their severe disability and long-term illness, the child's care fee will be set up, shortening the weed. In 2019 the amount of the care fee will also be increased by 15 per cent, while the conditions of eligibility will be tightened to improve the targeting of care. It is also an important amendment to extend eligibility to so-called graduate students who study in Hungarian higher education institutions, but not in Hungarian. In order to bring homeless people back to society, it is necessary for day-care providers to establish housing services in the form of a living room linked to their living room. This allows homeless people to migrate to larger cities. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, I believe that the adoption of the law is necessary and useful, and I therefore ask you to support me with your vote. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-10-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Madam State Secretary has indicated that she does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible for the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I'm asking you, someone wants to live with this. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain cultural laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/3372. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3372 on the amendment of certain cultural laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. It adopted it by 23 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted contains amendments to four laws. The proposal amends the 2013 CCXLII on the renewal and development of the City Park. Law. The Liget Budapest project combines the largest scale of park and landscape architecture interventions in the history of the country with an institutional development programme that has not been seen since the Millennium Times. The bill provides Városliget Zrt. in order to effectively carry out investment and asset management tasks in the City Park. by assigning Városliget Zrt. to the management of assets in respect of state-owned real estate, providing the seat of the trustee of the urban estate. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the complexity of the Liget Budapest project, the builder of the Liget Budapest project justified the creation of an independent economic company, which is a project company appointed to carry out the investments of the Hungarian State Opera House and the Workshop. The project company is Városliget Zrt. implement projects in a cost-effective manner using its existing knowledge base and infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, registered library provision and public education. By amending Act No.2017, the policy objectives, the basic public education services, have become the focus of the regulation of Community culture in 2017 by providing legal guarantees for the quality and differentiated organisation of basic public education services through community cultural institutions, better adapted to local needs and needs. Ladies and gentlemen, After considering what has been said, please support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-12-10-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State indicated that she did not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform you that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur, and that it is now possible for its Members to speak within the time frame on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members, someone wishes to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. Discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of Decision No 1 to the Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law. H/3232 submitted by MEPs from Hende Csaba and István Bajkai Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. [[18.10]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Csaba Hende, Vice-President of Parliament, as rapporteur, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, on behalf of the Government, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for the Members to speak. I am asking my fellow Members, who wish to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any of my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Hende, Vice-President of the House. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate either. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to Section XVI of 1991 on the concession The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The T/3635 submitted by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai and Mr Bajkai, Fidesz Group. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the 16th edition of 1991 on the concession. T/3635. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, T/3635 amending the concession law. Legislative bill No 1 for certain contracts for the creation of shares before the entry into force of the National Property Act, where the acquisition has not yet taken place, gives the parties to the contract the opportunity to settle the legal relationship within the framework of a concession contract, in order to protect the interests of the parties to the contract. Before the entry into force of the National Property Act, the exploitation of unfit municipal property was done in several cases by the creation of shared ownership on the property by the owner of the building on the property forming part of the stock. Today, the law on national property does not allow this, unless the contract for the creation of shared property was concluded before the law entered into force. The proposal before us now offers the possibility, in this case, that, if both parties agree, instead of registering shared ownership, a concession agreement on the use of the superstructure. Of course, in the interest of the investor, the concession procedure can only be carried out within the framework of a closed tender, since there would be serious damage if the concession holder were another person. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Property Act does not forcibly prohibit the creation of shared property. This proposal also offers an alternative to ensure that the principle of responsible management can be enforced as much as possible. In view of this, I ask you to support the proposal in the final vote; this is what the Legislative Committee proposes to the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the authors if they would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] The Congresswoman indicates that they do not want to take advantage of this opportunity. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to speak on behalf of the government. (To be indicated:) The Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak on behalf of the Government at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for the Members to speak. I ask my fellow Members, they wish to make use of it. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the congresswoman if she wants to answer on behalf of the authors. [[For signal:]] However, there has been no debate, so you obviously do not wish to answer any of the questions that have been raised. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the submission of administrative courts and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/3353. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2018-12-10-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/3353 on Administrative Courts. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The establishment of a system of administrative judicial bodies is optimally required for two levels of operation, which is the following. There would be an administrative supreme court with the same legal status as the Mansion and the eight administrative courts under it. Under the law, the ministerial administrative model will be introduced in Hungary. The Minister's administrative powers shall include the exercise of the powers of the chapter management body with regard to the chapter of the central budget administrative courts, the tasks relating to judicial applications, appointments of judges and judges, and the provision of statistical, infrastructure and IT conditions which prove essential for the functioning of administrative courts. In the new application system to be introduced, the Minister for Administration would be subject to legal constraints. On the one hand, the minister is bound to the selection of candidates deemed suitable by the judicial bodies, on the other hand, to determine the nullity of the application only if the national judicial body has made an explicit proposal in this regard or if there are objective circumstances. Subject to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the President of Hungary shall have the right of appointment. The Presidents of the Administrative Court shall be assisted by the Registrar in the performance of their administrative activities in order to ensure the personal and material conditions. The proposal on the House's table provides for the possibility for judges who judge the administrative case to be transferred to the new administrative court, if they so request, without a tender, by the power of the law. It is positive that judges holding a leading position before the entry into force of this Act will have the opportunity to pursue their judicial careers either in the administrative or in the ordinary court organisation, keeping their former management remuneration until the end of their original term of office, unless they are re-appointed as court leaders. Dear House, The proposal has been drawn up in accordance with Hungarian public-law traditions and constitutional guarantees, taking into account international standards and practices in other EU Member States, and should be supported in any case. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-10-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. [[18.20]] It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask you, one of my fellow Members wishes to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-12-10-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to thank all those who helped us to create these laws, especially the expert committee led by György Kiss, academic. In addition, university professors, OBH, the heads of the Curia, forensic experts helped with this work. I would particularly like to mention Mr.Péter Hajnal, President of the Association of Administrative Judges and the President of the Chamber of Kálmán Sperka, who helped us to establish this law directly on the basis of practical experience, which will ultimately bring the legislation abolished by the Communists back into the Hungarian legal order and set up the administrative judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-12-10-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Courts and on certain transitional rules and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow. The government referral is T/3354. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2018-12-10-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 6 December 2018, the Legislative Committee discussed the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Courts and certain transitional rules T/3354. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 6 votes against, 3 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is, of course, organically linked to the proposal we have just discussed. The present draft sets out a system of objective legal and constitutional safeguards which the Venice Commission requires for the selection, appointment, promotion and removal of judges. The proposal ensures that judges of the courts currently in administrative proceedings can, if they so request, be transferred to the new administrative court, by virtue of the law, without a tender. In addition to constitutional requirements, rationality requires administrative courts to start their operation with a prepared judiciary. It will properly address the situation of judges who do not make a statement within the limitation period, so they will continue to exercise their judicial profession in the ordinary court. The judicial status of such persons shall remain within the judicial system, at the same level, as a member of the relevant labour college. In view of the permanent practice of the Venice Commission in judicial matters, the head of the court, whether in the administrative court organisation or in the ordinary court organisation, may continue to pursue his judicial career until the date of expiry of his original term of office, unless he has been re-appointed as a court leader, which of course has been granted. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us was drawn up on the basis of recommendations and practice of international organisations, adapted to the specifics of domestic practice. In view of this, I ask you to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-12-10-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, points out that he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I'm asking if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the number of votes cast has not been published in the course of the decision of the proposed amendments to the agenda initiated by the MSZP, DK and Dialogue Group. The number of votes cast is 23 yes, 116 no and 0 abstentions. On this basis, the Parliament did not accept the proposal. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian nationalist spokesperson, came forward. I give the floor in a five-minute time frame: the rights of persons belonging to a national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minority are 70 years old under the title of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2018-12-10-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да випоздравя като застъпник на българското малцинство в yнгарски прламент. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, as a Bulgarian ethnic advocate, to welcome you and briefly remember that on 10 December 1948, the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which has become a key element of today's international legal order. The universal declaration of human rights was the basis for the creation of a series of further human rights conventions and human rights treaties. Today, December 10, 70 years ago, the world's leading powers identified the rights that everyone can expect and demand simply because they were born human. The world has undergone many changes over the past 70 years, but the concept of the universal declaration of human rights around human dignity continues to serve as an appropriate basis for the ever-changing, living instrument of human rights and freedoms. Based on the human dignity of all people as their own, the preamble to the declaration emphasises that human rights are the basis for freedom, justice and peace, and therefore the text lists all that is forbidden to do to humans and all that must be done as human beings in their behalf. Human rights are inseparable, equal to all women, men and children. Human rights are not hierarchical, no human rights can be enforced without the enforcement of other human rights. With Hungary's accession to the United Nations in 1955, it adopted the universal declaration of human rights, following which in the 1960s the international Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, as well as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, was ratified by Hungary in 1976 in order to create an international human rights framework. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to highlight from the texts of these documents one or two relevant articles. [[18.30]] The first article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights reads: . Every human being is born free and has equal dignity and right. People, having reason and conscience, should be in a brotherly spirit toward one another. Article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights states: "In states where national, religious or linguistic minorities live, persons belonging to such minorities cannot be denied the right, together with other members of their group, to have their own culture, to confess and practice their own religion, or to use their own language. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Hungary has taken significant steps over the last thirty years to ensure respect for fundamental human rights in Hungary. The institutional system for the protection of Hungarian legal systems and fundamental rights now ensures a level of legal protection comparable to those resulting from our membership of the European Union. Since 2014, the Fundamental Law of Hungary has ensured the parliamentary representation of the 13 national governments. In the second parliamentary term, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is already working on the protection of the rights and the enforcement of the interests of Hungarian nationalities. It is important to draw attention to fundamental human rights on such anniversaries. As a UN human rights institution, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights performs such tasks. On 20 November 2018, at the Jubilee Conference held at the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the signing of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Dr. László Székely ombudsman, Dr. Erzsébet Szalayné dr. Sándor and Dr. Gyula Bándi Deputy Commissioners, Dr. Mihály Simai, President of the Hungarian United Nations Society, Dr. Rita Izszak-Ndiaye, member of the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, Dr. Lóránt Csink is the Chief Advisor of the Constitutional Court. In particular, Dr. Szalayné dr. Erzsébet Sándor, Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, as a central actor in the protection of national minority rights, pays particular attention to the recognised ethnic communities in Hungary and to the continued contacts with other actors in the national minority protection system. With the involvement of his dedicated colleagues, he monitors the enforcement of the rights of nationalities in Hungary. On the occasion of the Jubilee, I would like to point out that the Government of Hungary, further the Hungarian Parliament, not only operates a system of institutions for the protection of rights for nationalities in Hungary, but also provides an ever-increasing, significant budgetary resource in the framework of its legislation, which allows nationalities to cultivate their traditions. Mr President, Dear Parliament, To sum up, I would like to express my thanks to everyone who is working to ensure that the fundamental human rights enshrined in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related documents are fully respected in Hungary, not only in relation to nationalities. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-182	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. We went a little further on the time frame, but given the nationality issues, I have now waived the time frame as president. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, on behalf of the Jobbik faction, has also applied for a post- Agenda address, but he is not in the Chamber, so his speech will not take place today. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Horváth, Fidesz:. The security of the power supply of the Upper-Mátra came forward. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The extreme weather phenomena associated with climate change are slowly becoming part of our lives, I must say, unfortunately. This is especially true for our fellow countrymen in Mátra and the higher part of Bükk, since in recent times spring snowstorms, thunderstorms, lone rain fronts, all kinds of extreme weather phenomena, including the large amount of precipitation that causes falling and floods, and then, let's say, the drought period, these phenomena appear regularly, and regularly, as they come out of the blue and with great force, they put the people here to great test, they also surprise the tourists who visit this area, who, thanks to God, have grown significantly and are constantly growing. Disaster control, fire department, police, emergency services, government agencies, in short, it can be said that they require increased and effective cooperation between special rescue units. In the higher areas of Mátra, the electrical supply system has proved to be the weakest element of the system in recent years. From 2014 to 17 they registered 117 mid-voltage malfunctions, and not in one case the settlements here, the residents of the settlements, but even the hotels were detained for more or less time. The serious consequence of the malfunction of the electrical system is that not only the power supply, but also the drinking water and the sewer system will stop operating at this time. In fact, in some cases, the exchange of information between rescuers in rescue situations has been compromised because of the malfunction of the power supply system. After all this, we were very pleased that the government decided this year that these free-wires should be replaced with land cables, which could be the final solution. We know that by broadening the openings, which are not justified in many respects or produce results, we will not be able to reach the finish, but only by replacing these air ducts with the earth's cable, it will be possible to provide a permanent and safe solution. The government has decided to declare official preparation of this programme, for this purpose, as a priority for the national economy. This is a very welcome decision, but we regret that, although this official preparation has taken place, my information is that we have not reached practical steps this year due to various procurement difficulties. Yet winter is once again here, and so we can only hope that it will not test us, it will not create another situation in which we must indeed save and guarantee the safety of human life and the security of wealth. So let us hope that spring will be a time for practical action. I would also like to thank everyone who has helped, supported, cooperated and avoided major damage in such extreme situations. I think we are all looking forward to practical steps, implementation, because the right to safety in the High-Matra, High-Bükk, is the number one right that everyone in this region is entitled to. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz Group, also spoke after the agenda with a title on the margins of the World Day of Disabilities. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-10-185	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, As is known, the UN declared 30 December 1992 the World Day for people with disabilities, raising awareness of the problems, tasks and struggles of people with disabilities. In Hungary, there wasn't really any legislation on people with disabilities before 1998. In 98, or approximately 20 years ago, Parliament adopted the Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, and in 2003 the Law on the Promotion of Equal Treatment. [[18.40]] In 2007, for the first time in the world, the Hungarian Parliament ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Since then, several significant steps have been taken in the country in recent years. I would just like to mention a few examples: starting the process of ejaculation, for example; adopting the Hungarian sign language law; adopting the day of Hungarian sign language; adopting the day of Hungarian parasports and deaf sports; constantly increasing the budget support of advocacy organisations. Compared to 2010, the total cost is double: we are already over HUF 1 billion in support of disability organisations. The Disability Council has also expanded with new organisations. For example, the Aphazia Association, the Handcapture Foundation, the Psychiatric Interests Forum, or Williams Syndrome have also been included as a disability category. The Inter-Professional Board was also established in 2015. It also shows that, in addition to a lot of things, we pay attention to them, support them, and facilitate their operation. In addition, six large, classic advocacy organizations jubilee in these years. Last year, SINOS celebrated the 110th anniversary of its existence, this year the Federation of Blind and Sensitives celebrated its 100th birthday. Next year, he will be 25 years old, and now, in December, he has celebrated his 30th birthday at the National Society of the Sivet Blinds, the Association of Autists. MEOSZ and ÉFOÉSZ were founded in 1981. These six advocacy organisations concluded a partnership agreement with EMMI on 1 November 2018 on the issue of institutional replacement, stressing that it is very important to take into account opinions: instead of large institutions, they move the persons concerned to smaller housing homes. Nevertheless, there is still a great deal of work to be done, especially with regard to the tasks of the National Disability Programme for the years 2015-25. So we see progress in these areas. The government carries out large-scale projects involving advocacy organisations, such as the Contact Interpreting Service, the TeleSzem programme, which promotes the independent lives of blind people, or the DATA programme, which helps the autistic self-living. The employment of people with disabilities has also increased to 40 percent. This also shows very well that we are reaching more and more employers with these tasks. Now, on December 3rd, we celebrated the World Day of People with Disabilities with the world's best gala night. On this occasion, more than 30 companies were given the title of Disability-friendly Jobs. In addition, three committed, determined foster parents who raised 48 children, 18 of whom had disabilities, received the Handcapture Prize. I hope that the objectives of the next national disability programme, which covers the years 2019-25, will become even more effective. One last thing. I would like to congratulate Kaposvár, which is where I came from: the European Commission has received the award for a barrier-free city. It's a special award. This award represents a significant step forward in accessibility, so I congratulate the city of Kaposvár from here. Fidesz and KDNP are committed to these goals. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-10-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
