u2018-06-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and to anyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that on 7 June, the national minority spokesperson Simani Silva informed me that he had resigned his mandate as spokesperson. I would like to inform you that, following the establishment of the Parliament on 8 May 2018, the National Assembly Act 90. In accordance with paragraphs 1 to 2 of the Act, all Members and Spokespersons have made their own declarations of property and their relatives within 30 days, i.e. until 7 June. Declarations of property are public in the case of Members and Speakers and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. I declare that all Members of Parliament and advocates can exercise their rights. Dear Parliament, MEP Ágnes Vadai, member of DK, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "Our European Affairs." I give you the floor.
u2018-06-11-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are already 21 European governments that have joined or indicated their intention to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The Orbán government, I don't have to tell you, is not one of them. We know from the report of the European Anti-Fraud Office that Fidesz fears the European Public Prosecutor's Office for a reason, like fire. If it were not for Péter Polt's Chief Prosecutor to press charges in corruption cases involving EU money, many fidesz politicians, fidesz oligarchs, relatives and friends would be behind bars. Among other things, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, who, and here I quote, could have carried out fraud in a criminal organisation in the public part of the relevant OLAF report. The Prime Minister's son-in-law may have brought darkness to the Hungarian cities by means of stolen public lighting improvements, but in Europe there is no darkness that cannot be seen: in Hungary there are law enforcement criminals in power. That is why you have not published the OLAF report on István Tiborcz's public procurements; that is why Tiborcz is fleeing the press as if he were being chased by a pitchfork. If the Prime Minister's son-in-law has nightmares, they're about the European Public Prosecutor's Office. But I could also give you the example of a Butcher Gunner, the man who became one of the richest men in the country. In a weaker moment, he even admitted that it took Viktor Orbán's friendship to win so much Hungarian and European public money. That's why you don't want a European prosecutor's office, because you're afraid of prison. This governance in the European Public Prosecutor's Office would be called 'no', not a Christian democracy, but - 'budgetary fraud and abuse in a particularly high value, criminal organisation'. It's the truth. But you know what, fellow Members? Let's say for a moment that you're not necessarily corrupt criminals. I'm not a fan of fiction, but let's say. I would like to ask why they have reason to say: no, they do not want the European Union to have the power to examine and put in jail those who loot the common European register. Nothing. If you were fair, you wouldn't have any reason to be. That is why this is nothing more than a confession, my fellow Members. When someone at a crime scene protests very strongly against calling the police, that person is usually the perpetrator. That's exactly how you're acting. Minister of Justice László Trócsányi always explains why we do not join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and I quote that there are institutions that are currently carrying out the desired task. I hope you're listening to the desired task. Dear House, The problem with the Hungarian prosecutor is that he does not work to comply with the law, but does the tasks he wants to do in Fidesz: to wash the Fidesz politicians, oligarchs, relatives, and, of course, to frame innocent people, especially opposition politicians. Please do not tell me that the work of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is being carried out by the Hungarian institutions, because they are clearly not doing it! If it had been done, then I think he would have been in prison a long time ago or at least on the bench of the defendants, István Tiborcz, for the development of public lighting. Similarly, there is no prison, for example, on Flórian Farkas, who has not been able to account for the money received to catch up with the Roma. But there is no prison with settlement bonds, Antal Rogán, who helps illegal migration and international crime, as there is no prison for Szilárd Kiss, who gives a passport to Russian criminals and spies. And, of course, we could continue the line, because there are quite a few of them. We will be told that the work of the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be carried out in Hungary by the Hungarian authorities, the Attorney General, the prosecutors, if these people will sit in prison or, as I indicated, at least on the bench of the defendants, and we will not only hear from Péter Polt that there is nothing to investigate before the European Anti-Fraud Office. As long as they say that, as you say, there's nothing but talk, babble, and ash. We in the Democratic Coalition strongly support Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because we believe that whoever steals belongs in prison regardless of party status, even if, in this case, in the case of an independent justice system, this would mean that two thirds of the Fidesz Parliament would be reduced to one third in a short period of time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[13.10]]
u2018-06-11-2	On behalf of the Government, Szilárd Németh will respond. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Nor is Ferenc Gyurcsány in prison [[Gergely Harvesto: You really wanted it. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You did everything you could for her.]] And he himself confessed in his autumn speech that he belonged there. Well, what we have just heard is nothing more than part of the weeks, months, years-long process in which the DK politicians behind my back and the opponents who join them crush Hungary's sovereignty, Hungary, the freedom of the Hungarian people. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] They want us to be persuaded that here, in the Hungarian Parliament, we Hungarian representatives, who were elected by the people on 8 April, and they have made it very clear what we are doing in the Hungarian Parliament: we are not representing Hungarian interests, we are not speaking for Hungary's sovereignty, we are not speaking for the security of Hungarian people. And part of that is the argument, which the Minister of Justice, here at the Pulpit last week completely contradicted, which says the prosecution, the court, I don't know, who else not, everyone. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: And the warships.]] It should be placed under Brussels. And with those legislative changes, I would like to refer here to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, we do the exact opposite, going exactly on 8 April on the path determined by the Hungarian people. We do not want the Hungarian prosecutor's office to be run from Brussels, we do not want the Hungarian court to be governed from Brussels. But, by the way, speaking of corruption cases, let's just think about, say, the EMIR scandal. 18 billion! This scandal is clearly linked to Altus, Ferenc Gyurcsány. But once, not only Hungary, but the biggest corruption scandal ever in the history of the European Union, which they are trying to cover up at all costs, we know the whole story from the OLAF report itself, from a report defined by the General Assembly of Budapest. Where do the strings lead? All this corruption leads to Ferenc Gyurcsány. We're talking about almost 160 billion forints, and now this government, we're gonna have to pay back 59 billion. [[Gergely Harvesto: You don't pay back anything.]] So I think you should be a little more modest when you accuse others of corruption. But let's go to the family companies. Altus is so lined up with a billionaire order in Brussels that the world has not seen it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] So when they have to eat sad opposition bread for the third time, according to the people's decision, they are ordered from Brussels to represent Brussels interests here in the Hungarian Parliament, and we cannot tolerate that. Otherwise, this is what we are experiencing when immigration is constantly being said about what is in the Soros plan. [[Gergely Arató: What does this have to do with the DA's office?]] the total weakening of borders, the decision of the people, the decision of the Hungarian people, without the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, the organization of inflow [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] In the case of resettlement and all such cases, we see that Hungary, against the security of the Hungarian people, is fighting against Hungarian sovereignty here in Parliament. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that this government, which was given on 8 April two thirds of the people's trust and authority, says, in contrast to what the DK-s say, that Hungary is the first, and we must represent the interests of the Hungarian people in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me an answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-4	The group leader of the MSZP, Member Bertalan Tóth, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:, Bunda! It's an address. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2018-06-11-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We can think of a lot of things about fur. We think of this word mostly about football; as we overlook the results of Hungarian football, it is no wonder that we sometimes think of it. But we can think of the bear who's just been halfway across the country, but the thing that comes to mind is what's going on in politics, the series of frauds we're dealing with. I am thinking here about rigging the electoral system, fixing media relations, certain economic frauds or investigations that have been coaxed into OLAF's recommendation, as far as fur is concerned. What I would like to talk about is the fixing of the Hungarian justice system, because it is happening in Hungary today. Fidesz is constantly rigging parts of the justice system and is about to fix the whole thing. Fidesz has unscrupulously put the prosecution under direct political control. The appointment of Péter Polt as a party member clearly shows this. Péter Polt is the Fidesz, the Fist of the Party. Viktor Orbán turned his back on honest prosecutors, democracy, the principles of independent justice when he appointed him the chief prosecutor. Peter Polt serves and protects you, serves your political power, and protects the stolen money. The old saying and the truth of the hand washes itself when we see the family merger of the general prosecutor in the Hungarian National Bank, even though it is clearer than the foundations of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank what kind of abuse is taking place. [[13.20]] But if necessary, then Péter Polt will also be able to accept democracy if someone at the National Election Office, some bald people, prevent a Hungarian citizen from submitting a referendum initiative. You're gonna run a case, you're gonna rig an investigation that doesn't involve listening to certain people, certain evidence disappears, and then you're gonna close the investigation, and then nothing happens there. Péter Polt, on the other hand, uses the prosecution to deal with crimes of business close to Fidesz instead of law enforcement, and uses the authority to keep nothing out. Ladies and gentlemen, Does anyone know when the Elios case is gonna be indicted, where the Quaestor fortune is, what about Simonka, Roland Mengyi, Flórian Farkas, Sándor Farkas, or when we're gonna get some information from Zsolt Szabó's investigation? What about Lajos Kósa's thousand billion, what about Tiborcz, what about the others, what about the laundry of the ruling class? What if it's not fur? ! And this fur is already felt by civilians who are constantly being attacked by fabricated charges. There are crowds walking down the street, civilians, young people who are being punished in exercising their civil rights. They feel the lawyers they want to tell who they can and can't protect. They feel the judges they're texting from the party center, and they're trying to tell us how to make decisions on some matters. Now, that's what it's about, and that's what we can't let go of. We cannot allow the administrative court that you are going to set up to fix court proceedings so that conceptual procedures and fixed procedures can be launched against anyone in Hungary. We're not gonna let that happen. In a rule of law, the prosecutor's organisation does not serve as a party but as a public service. Today, however, it serves state corruption and repression through mafia methods in Hungary. It is time to answer a simple question as to why we do not want to join, why you do not want to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The answer is absolutely clear: because the system of national cooperation is as afraid of the European Public Prosecutor's Office as the devil of incense smoke. And however Viktor Orbán tries to bend reality, the fact is that once everything is over, nothing lasts forever. This system will be over, and then there will be legal and moral accountability. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-11-6	On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner will respond. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, I do not know how long you talked to our fellow Member in Vada before the speech, but the speeches rhyme with each other, so what belongs to each other is one thing. Obviously, there was an approach to the whole story in Brussels to how to further undermine our sovereignty, how to further reduce Hungary's independence. Perhaps in the previous reply, Mr Szilárd Németh was able to highlight this. But what you said, Congressman, if I wanted to be rude, I would have to doubt that you have a legal degree. We all know that the public prosecutor's organisation is an independent organisation in Hungary, unlike the majority of other EU Member States where the government operates. In Hungary, the head of the prosecutor's office is elected by Parliament, it has to report to Parliament, and the government has no influence on the functioning of the prosecutor's office, just as it does not have any influence on the functioning of the courts. Maybe in your day it was different, you have different experiences and you remember it differently. It is not elegant, however, in the absence of Mr Attorney General, to criticize his person when he cannot defend himself, but let me draw his attention, although he may refer to his age as not aware of this - that he has already been in this post and has worked at the High Prosecutor's Office before his new assignment, so he has done his job as a member of the prosecutor's organisation, including during your administration. At the time, there was no weird way he could be a party soldier, or there would be any problem with how he did his job. In particular, it does not fall before this House as to whose family member does his activities in another workplace, and that this would have any influence on it. The spouse or children of the Public Prosecutor's Office worker could not, therefore, be employed in Hungary. Perhaps you want to drive the workers away from Hungary, I could say in the same demagogic style that you raise. As to the past: if we look at the role of the courts, prosecutors or even the police in recent decades, I think the most glorious low was the time of the autumn riots in 2006, when virtually all the evidence, without legal justification, using the police, with water cannons, eye shots, and horse-ridings, was brought down peaceful crowds on the streets of the capital, and to this was assisted by the then prosecutorial and the lower levels of the courts of that time, including, among other things, the judge that you are now favoring, who, oddly speaking of his past, does not mention it as an excellent expert - how many marauding decisions you have made, which were then destroyed in a higher degree. But we can also talk about why it's so important to you and why you're talking about these cases or trying to make cases. Obviously, it is not pleasant to hear the name of Csaba Czeglédy before the House, who, as a mutual agent of MSZP, DK or both organizations, is virtually VAT fraud as a common criminal... [[Lajos Korózs: Zuschlag!]] Thank you for your help. [[Lajos Korózs: He's your buddy now!]] Who even tried to intervene in the elections, and whose role we know from the data thefts to the youth money floods linked to the former Gyurcsány, the circle of Attila Mesterházy. These are indeed very delicate matters, and you do not like to talk about them. We really need a new story. Or what Szilárd Németh said: this is the case of a four-way. I don't want to bring up any other matters, Gábor Simon, but you guys have a lot of butter on your heads, and it's not good to climb out of these stories to the sun. As to the fact that the amendment to the Fundamental Law was also mixed up with the creation of a new administrative supreme court, which is in line with the Hungarian historical traditions, which functions in most of the EU states, and that is to say, I probably shouldn't have answered that question, because it wasn't a professional question for you, but for a political turf. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-8	On behalf of the LMP, Mr Szabolcs Szabó asked for the floor before the agenda:. Do you really think that we need not a new National Basics Plan, but teachers who teach faster? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I could list a lot of things that I think the two Orbán governments have done wrong in the last four years, but in which I think that there is agreement between us or at least a large part of us, and that can be said even among government representatives, the fact that they have caused very big problems in the field of education is that public education has been seriously disrupted. It also shows that you agree with that, because you keep changing directions, but that never works. Hofi once said that we've gone in a new direction so many times that we're slowly facing ourselves. Well, that's the typical thing about public education and higher education. And, as I said, the government saw that even the previous government had decided - that the National Basic Science Plan, which is the basis of this fidesz education system, was wrong. The government itself saw that this was not good, and they commissioned Csépe Valeria to renew the NAT, and the government communicated about it over the past year. What the problems and problems with NAT are, what the problems with NAT have been said not only by independent experts and opposition representatives many times, but also by Valéria Csépe herself came to the meeting of the Cultural Committee and said that there is simply too much curriculum and too little time available. [[13.30]] In English, we need less teaching material for teachers, and more time to teach it, plus a more flexible curriculum. The Commissioner then said at the hearing of the Committee on Culture, which she obviously heard, too, that she had been assigned to her work by 6 March, and that a full textual proposal should have come before the government by 30 April. We don't know anything about that, by the way. But we, obviously on the basis of the Commissioner's report, believed that something was happening, that a material would be produced and that, as she promised, it would be put to a social and professional debate. There has now been a very interesting development in relation to this in the days when the new Minister, Minister Kásler, said that he is very pleased with the National Basic Training Plan. According to him, I quote, it's excellent, but the pace of passing on knowledge could be faster. This not only goes against the one-year communication that you, for example under the leadership of the Secretary of State, have said over the last year that it is not good, and you have admitted that the National Basics Plan is not good, but it also goes against the opinion of the expert you have asked. And I'd like to quote Csépe Valeria, so that I don't misinterpret her words. He said about the NAT:. The NAT determines until the last verse what is to be taught at what time and at what time. This does not provide an opportunity to build useful knowledge, does not clearly determine the proportion of knowledge and skills acquired together, how, how, and does not provide time for specific degradability for professional tasks. That's why 7-8-year-olds go home from school with circle eyes, because they get so tired, there's a school and there's a class where they teach kids 40 hours a week. That's eight times 45 minutes. The Commissioner herself said that this is absurd, because 4 times 45 minutes is the maximum amount a child can take. It also shows that the basic course is wrong, and I think that this should be discussed with the Minister, and I am sorry that he is not here, pass it on to him, please, Mr Secretary, to talk to Valeria Csépe, your own expert, your expert, in ten sentences, about the problem with NAT. 'Cause it's not gonna be good for them to go in the direction where they want to speed up their education, because that's not the problem. The other thing that we see as not being very good at the moment, Minister, and that is why we should talk to Valeria Csépe or other experts, we would be happy to help recruit independent experts, Minister said that the most important thing is that education based on tradition should be included in the NAT. While, let's say, Valéria Csépe said that the most important thing in a modern NAT is to strengthen basic skills, to strengthen foreign language education, to develop digital basic skills, art skills must be more intensively involved in education. So these should be the main directions, and this should be the goal. This kind of dialogue should also be started with the profession as to how this can be developed. Because it's not a professional dialogue to say, Minister, that he went to his high school reunion and talked to his former classmates about what's wrong with NAT. No! The profession must be consulted within a formal framework. That's why it would be good if the NAT were finally ready, not stalling, not knowing what happened, and here, during the budget, we would validate it. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-11-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think you can answer your question very easily, honourable Member. Your first question, which you raised in about the first three minutes, will be answered by reading the National Public Education Act. All your questions are answered in a row, which states that the National Basic Training Plan should be reviewed every five years. This is why, although there is indeed a stable basic curriculum, the law requires that it be reviewed every five years, so it should be reviewed every five years. There is therefore no time for rushing or walking on the ground, but there is a normal timetable, which the Parliament has accepted here every five years, because the world is changing, knowledge is changing, pedagogical methods are developing, obviously the composition of society and children is changing, so every five years it is absolutely natural that the National Basic School should be reviewed. We, here in the Parliament, have set up such an education system in front of you, whose foundations are stable, an important base for national education, but nevertheless, it is constantly adapted to modern needs every five years. My other advice is that when you read the Minister's interviews, you should read them all, because it was a typical slide, half-information, and the rest of what you said here. After all, he took out parts of his interview and then missed the parts that were in it. Literally, our goal is a modern education. You said why there's only tradition in it, why there's no modernity. This is literally what we're looking for, modern education. For NAT, new research results should be included and modern pedagogical approaches for NAT should be integrated. You have now missed why these are not among the objectives. They are there, honourable Member, they are all there point by point. Only you directly read these lines by covering up one or another, so that you could confirm a preconception, a narrative, without actually reading the Public Education Act and seeing why NAT needs to be reviewed every five years or read the fullness of the interview. He may have been well-intentioned and only informed about certain Balliberal portals; then I suggest that he always search for the original form. And Mr. Minister, I think you have much more information on education, as he has been teaching grad school for 44 years, in four home and several foreign institutions, in seven institutions postgraduate training, in further education for 37 years, and in several institutions for 13 years in PhD education. He also has 64 members of scientific society and others. So I think that he has more knowledge than you, honourable Member, about what and how it is worth teaching. This is how we built the system that we created, with five years of review and great flexibility. You should have read a little more detailed rules for that, but a year and a half ago, rather than two years ago, you could have found the legislation that now provides a 20-percent difference compared to the master plan for all schools. You said a problem that many people feel that their children are overwhelmed at school. We have created a solution to this, honourable Member, that the framework curriculum can be deviated by 20%. If a school develops a profile in which only the average quantity is required, it can do so. And if there's a school that wants more from students and parents want their children to go to a school where they demand more from them, they can do that. There's 20 percent difference from the master plan. Thus, the parents, the school, the students, the school management can jointly develop the profile of one school or another. Obviously, there is a basic education, a basic skill development that everyone must have, but there is a much greater difference between schools each to create their own profile, so that the students will not go home with an overloaded feeling, because anyone who wants to send their children to a school where they demand more can do so. And anyone who says that my child doesn't need that kind of extra knowledge, and that parent is sending his child to another type of school, has that option. In order to promote this, the Institute for Education and Development has also developed so-called flexible curriculum proposals, precisely so that schools that want to make use of the derogation for the benefit of children, so that children can really gain the necessary knowledge at school, and what the school, together with parents, students and teachers, considers less pronounced and more quickly pass through them, in this case, these flexible curriculum proposals help teachers to work as a kind of scheme, helping the school director when they develop the school profile. Honourable Congressman, We have built such a public education system, and we have also provided resources for it in educators' wages and other areas. If you look at how much a country spends on education in terms of GDP on the average of the European Union, you will find 4.9 percent, 5.2 in the case of Hungary, much more than the EU average, because we want to invest more in our future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-12	Dear House, It is now up to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, on behalf of Jobbik, with the title of another government playground. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2018-06-11-13	Dear Parliament, The press report that Fidesz is already preparing for the eighth amendment of the Fundamental Law, which aims to change the date of the municipal elections again in our granite-solid legislation. Thus, Article 35 (2) in force from 1 April 2013, under which the election of local government representatives and mayors should be held in October of the fifth year following the previous general local elections, would be amended in such a way that the elections to the European Parliament will be held at the same time as the elections to the future. In addition to the fact that the only reasonable reason for the change, i.e. that some savings could be made on the costs of conducting the votes, it is clear that only party policy considerations would be relevant for the government. It would be amended to allow the election of local government representatives and mayors to be held in October of the fifth year following the previous general local elections so that the elections to the European Parliament can be held at the same time as the elections to the European Parliament for the next year. In addition to the fact that the only reasonable reason for the change, i.e. that some savings could be made on the costs of conducting the votes, it is clear that only party policy considerations would be relevant for the government. (Sic!) [[13.40]] The reference to cost-effectiveness is also amusing, because if you look at the fact that the cost of moving to the Prime Minister's Castle is HUF 4 billion per room, if you are based on the Prime Minister's study, then the cost of a national referendum could be covered in a significant part. The government's party policy arguments are much more obvious. According to Fidesz's general staff, the main driver of Hungarian society is fear and intimidation, and the leaders of the settlements are both subjects and subjects. In this context, it must also be said what is the real message of this fundamental law amendment. This means that our constitutional principles can be overwritten and questioned at any time, and that bringing forward municipal elections would mean that all local authorities would be dissolved long before the end of their term of office, so that they would obviously not be able to carry out their tasks in their cycle programmes or only partially. It is clear that this would not avoid the leaders of government-like settlements, which are in a much more difficult financial situation... pardon, leaders of settlements in a much more difficult financial situation would be increasingly vulnerable. Regardless of whether or not they are trying to disprove this press report, we know this is not the first time we have heard that the government would want to make a gross transformation of the municipal system. You must have heard of the press earlier that, according to a reform of the electoral rights proposed by the government, settlements of less than five thousand people would not be able to elect either mayors or representatives in 2019. Although you have denied or denied this before the parliamentary elections, we know that the process that has been going on for a long time is aimed at the elimination of the Hungarian local government and our thousand-year settlement network. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Expired album!]] It is clear that, in order to achieve these objectives, the government does not centrally settle the salaries of public officials, and therefore the value of the subsidies in the financing of tasks is reduced. This is why administration is centralized, see the introduction of the ASP system, which is why the Hungarian Treasury will be the managing bank of all settlements, and it is clear that, in addition to public administration services, the planned integration of so-called human public services into health, education and social care systems in district centre municipalities is the intention to permanently eliminate the viability of smaller settlements. The historical history of this idea after the council system of Rákosi and Kádár appeared in the extremely liberal program of Gordon Bajnai in 2010, so Fidesz will now carry on their legacy in a slave manner. In contrast, Jobbik sees our national identity and self-preservation in strengthening 3200 settlements [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and the guarantee of our self-determination and our sustainable future, and in this value-making work local leaders are key actors. Jobbik's goal is to create a liveable and vibrant region and a Hungary where all our countrymen, born in any part of the country, can feel at home. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-14	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will have the floor to answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to suggest that you don't take everything you read in the paper for granted. In any case, the government will provide information that if it proposes to amend the Fundamental Law, as has been the case in recent weeks. What you're talking about is simply not included in the proposed amendments to the basic law. So the thing is, we're going to come to the conclusion that you're talking about this because you want to distract attention from the intention that Jobbik doesn't want to vote for the current amendment to the basic law that we're discussing. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Dr. István Apáti: We did not expect this.]] That's the thing. As far as the municipalities are concerned, I would like to draw attention...
u2018-06-11-16	Calm down, calm down, Congressmen, calm down.
u2018-06-11-17	...if you have raised this question, the government has freed the municipalities of 1369 billion forints of debt. This increased their room for manoeuvre and provided priority resources for the support of the 1172 municipalities that had no credit. And partly or entirely, the government has taken on the tasks that the municipalities have not been able to carry out in a uniform manner, and we have also moved on to task-based funding. I'm sorry you missed all of this. So, since you've made general comments, let me do some while we're here, too, because we can sense that Jobbik has been trying to pretend that nothing has happened in the last few days or weeks, both in the election and in his own house. It seems that they are also trying to make such speeches forget the huge unconventional turn that was presented before the election, but this will not be easy. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What does that have to do with anything?]] It's not gonna be easy because either I could put it like that in your case, selling out a party spirit has a big price. Nor is it a coincidence that many leave Jobbik these days, and it is no coincidence that more harsh details about Gábor Vona's presidency will be revealed. With speeches based on false news of this type, he will certainly try to draw attention to them. 'Cause it's a classified case, after all, that they're gonna make a deal with an oligarch who's gonna take the whole party into the wrong, so your party's gonna get a hundred million-dollar fine, and then they're gonna get your supporters to pay for it. And more than that, the party's former leaders claim that the proceeds were not spent in the end for the purpose they were asked to do. We have always, always said, that Jobbik can do anything for money and power, but these strokes are even more harsh than before, and in fact, their recent break-up because this is not what happens in these days, it's not about principles, it's about fighting over money and positions. That's what exclusions, factions and exits are all about, nothing more. And it makes it even more serious, honourable Member, that the former party president who brought this together has checked out nicely, leaving behind chaos and squawking. In the meantime, membership may be wondering how to pull Jobbik out of bankruptcy. It's not an exaggeration to use that term, because that's what your party president was referring to. Don't get me wrong, this bankruptcy wasn't caused by election defeat, it was by misguided politics, and if Jobbik had, God forbid, had a government opportunity, he would have treated the country just as well as his own organization. If there was trouble, Gábor Vona would have turned his back on the country just as he has now turned his back on Jobbik. It's a lot of things, but it's not responsible for national policy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There would be an opportunity to correct, let us say, support the government; instead of such false news-based politicalisation, they support the government in the fight against illegal immigration, let us say by supporting the constitutional amendment and voting in favour of the Stop Soros legislative package. Instead, we see it, and it seems from his speech that they are once again competing with the left, in how to hide behind devious lawyering the fact that they do not want to vote for the current amendment of the basic law. They are doing this again, as they did in 2016, when they drilled the amendment of the basic law for a crude political reason, while you were the ones who demanded it earlier. That's when I think they got into a downward political spiral. You can get out of it now. It's up to you to do it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-18	From the Dialogue, Bence Tordai follows with the title O, O, IO, CIO, ORBANIZED. [[It's grumpy.]] I didn't get it either.
u2018-06-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Speaker. Dear Parliament, Oh, okay, okay, orbanisation, if you didn't understand the title of my dear fellow Member. So, Honourable Parliament, this week the school year ends, the eighth year of school in the Orbán regime. It's a lot to say, so to live through as a student, parent, or educator. The Orbanisation of the Hungarian education system has been going on for eight years. Yes: Education is being Orbanised, since it has become clear today that the changes in the school system serve only Viktor Orbán's master plan of power. [[Németh Szilárd István: Only!?]] A land full of subjects, a school full of subjects, is the desire of all self-absorbed. Be quiet, order and discipline in the classrooms and throughout the country. This is what governs the education policy in Orbán. In Fidesz education management, it is a secondary aspect of whether the child is comfortable at school, so that the teacher can make the best of himself, so that the parent can freely let his offspring go in the morning. [[13.50]] The guiding goal of Fidesz policy is not to develop children to become successful and happy adults, not to reduce social inequalities, just to raise obedient subjects. CHAPTER XXI In the century, successful education systems teach children to think, ask, cooperate and find solutions. But what is a success elsewhere is the danger here in Orbanistan. Here they are pleased if the kind citizen does not think, but accepts, does not ask, but nods, and does not find a solution in cooperation, but awaits him in isolation to be graciously cared for. The consequences? Hungarian students are showing increasingly poor performance in international surveys, more and more families are getting their children out of public education, the best are already studying abroad. The number of early school leavers is increasing, and the proportion of students in university is drastically reduced, while one in five children comes out of school and remains functional illiterate. If, for a moment, they were serious about what the so-called Prime Minister said about being among the five best countries in Europe by 2030, they would go in the opposite direction in education policy. But as we overlook the statements of the new minister, our remaining hopes will be shattered for any positive turn of events. So all that remains is to ask the government, the minister, the secretary of state, and not to ask for it, but to cry on behalf of Hungarian parents, that if they can't use or don't want to use it, at least don't harm the children and the Hungarian education industry any more. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Márius Révész: In the name of my children, do not cry.]] Thank you very much.
u2018-06-11-20	Secretary Bence Rétvári is waiting for you to respond. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Half of his time frame would have been left to talk about education, but if he didn't, he wouldn't. You know, when we talk about education, I think about you two things. One is privatisation and the other is liberalisation. Because you, your world view, the Socialist Party in your alliance, or your spiritual ancestors, the SZDSZ, have all confessed to this, and you have nothing but abandon the Hungarian education issue, just as your spiritual ancestors have done, when they have indebted the local governments by missing HUF 1200 billion of educational, social and health expenses, and this has been covered by bonds and loans by the municipalities; and the liberalisation, which has led everyone, especially those who really need help in catching up, to leave them to do what they want. As a result, more than 300 locks were placed on the doors of the school buildings, 15,000 teachers were dismissed, and a full monthly salary was taken from all Hungarian teachers. But in our desire to cement our own power, he gave examples. Do you think that cementing the power of the current government is the obligation to go to kindergarten from the age of 3 and thus reduce social differences? Do you think that the 60 percent reduction in the percentage of school absences due to the fact that schooling grants are now linked to school attendance is any negative for Hungary? You say that the Hungarian system of public education does not teach debate culture. Honourable Congressman, You and all your fellow opposition representatives have been doing for eight years is finding in any new textbook in Hungary a suggestion, a source quote, an excerpt that encourages students to engage in dialogue and debate, jumping on it with ten nails and saying what a terrible thing there is in the textbooks, when these books are precisely for children to argue about it, which is why texts are often provocative. When you find one of these, it's called the shame of public education to encourage students to debate, and then here they say that there's not enough content in textbooks to argue with. Honourable Congressman, You say everything and the opposite of everything, because nothing, but nothing, is thought of about Hungarian education, only that it must be liberalised and privatized, because that is what previous liberal governance was about. And let us not forget that those who skimmed most of the benefits from the Hungarian textbook system produced only 10 percent of the textbooks because they optimized their market for the most profitable textbooks. [[Gergely Harvester: 30 percent.]] Honourable Congressman, In OECD countries, what percentage of the average graduating salary do you think teachers are looking for? I don't think you know, 80 percent. In Hungary, what percentage of the average salary do teachers earn? 82. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] In Hungary, the OECD has shown that teachers earn more than elsewhere than they do on average. This is due to the fact that today there is 550 billion HUF more in the education budget than eight years ago. This is one and a half percent of GDP. Today, we spend one and a half percent of GDP on education and public education more than the country spent when we received the opportunity to govern. In what area did the government launch the first program that offered a comprehensive wage development and career path to public sector workers? The first career took place precisely for teachers, teachers, because this was the most important thing we considered to be starting with, and so we raised 50 percent on average on teachers' wages. We introduced the Klebelsberg Scholarship, precisely so that children born in a part of the country where there is a shortage of certain specialized teachers, because, let's say, there is no so much chemistry teacher, or there is no geography teacher, or there is a shortage of any other teacher; that there is also a specialized teacher, and there is also a specialized teacher teaching them, because there is a generational lag, which is why we created the Klebelsberg Scholarship, which can now reach 375 thousand forints every six months during university training. So that everyone could go to college, that's why we made Student Loan 2 free of interest. In order to make it easier for everyone to get along, the Hungarian state is now paying the student language exam fee. To make it easier to work, the Hungarian State now pays the fee for the KRESZ course and the KRESZ exam. In order to be able to cope with a difficult situation, it is possible to prepare before school how time should be allocated, concentrated and adapted to others, which is why we are running 112. Safe start, which is why we have 275 schools all over the country, and that is why we are dealing with 72 496 students and young people in these various catching-up programmes, and a good part of them are now financed from budgetary resources. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is also due to the fact that the proportion of graduates in Hungary has briefly increased from 17 per cent in 6 years to 20.5 per cent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-22	Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the KDNP Group:. We protect the homes of families and the nation's home, Hungary. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-23	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The title also shows that today I would like to talk about two homes, on the one hand, the home of families and, on the other hand, the home of the nation, Hungary. We must protect the safety of both, which is also included in the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Home is more than a place of residence, family lives there, children grow up there, children learn responsibility for each other, we welcome our friends there, so it's good to go home, because home is safe. It is the duty of the state to protect this security. But there is another community that has a home, and this nation, we call this home Hungary. This country is what our ancestors have fought for, which we have worked for, and which has its order, its holidays, its customs, in which we can live safely. It is also the duty of the state to protect this security. And those who knock on our door because they are in grave danger will be protected; those who want to come to us in a mass in the hope of a better life will not be allowed. They threaten our way of life, our customs, our holidays, and our security. The issue of human rights has also been raised with regard to this amendment; let us also talk about human rights in the area of home protection, but we have to say two important rules before it: one is the balance of law and responsibility and the other is the limits of the exercise of law. Responsibility in this case is the responsibility for families and the nation. [[14.00]] However, the practice of law has limits, if you will. Beyond the limit, freedom also reverses, and human rights is distorted. What this looks like in the specific amendment of the law, let me refer to it. Freedom of assembly and expression exists, but not only does it exist, but we need to protect it. But there is no right to be harassed. We have to stop this. On the other hand, in relation to the protection of the country, it is our responsibility and even our duty to protect hospitality and endangered life; we must do so. But there is no right that we can call the right to take a country; there are those who call it locusts. The enforcement of human rights therefore increases and strengthens our security, but in order to understand human rights correctly, keeping its balance and limitations, it is only human rights that prevail, but in the absence of that, it is distorted and leads to a wrong solution. These two ideas, the protection of the two homes, are what we need to think about when amending the Fundamental Law. Anyone who knows what a family is and knows what a nation is is acceptable, even desirable. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-24	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Indeed, opposition parties still do not dare to look the Hungarian electorate in the eye and take a clear position on what concerns all countries in Europe over the past period, what is their real vision, their real opinion on the future of Europe, and how they want to protect Europe and, above all, Hungary from the wave of immigration that everyone has had to see clearly since 2015. They do not dare to look into the eyes of Hungarian voters because they do not depend on them, they do not think that their power can be derived from them, but they have always sought the needs of some other circle with strong media influence and strong economic influence. Even when the Hungarian strategic sectors were privatized after 94, and international investors and financial investors placed in the hands of the Hungarian strategic sectors, or when after 2002, which was still in the hands of others, everything from state assets to Mahart, was sold, sold, and placed in the hands of others. They did this even with the Hungarian national textbook supply, because they even gave it to foreigners; in Hungary, the content of the textbooks could be decided by foreign companies. So, since it has always been the point of reference, the origo dot for them was not the Hungarian electorate [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not the Origo!]] But these groups, they still haven't changed. They are more afraid of George Soros's revenge than of the opinion of the Hungarian electorate. Unfortunately, this is the realistic picture of the entire Hungarian opposition. That is why it is important for Fidesz-KDNP to carry out the will of the people, including what came out of the national consultation, and what came out earlier in the referendum by voting more than 3 million people in one direction, and also what came out of the last parliamentary elections as the result of the elections. This is why it is important to amend the Fundamental Law and to amend the Criminal Code, and therefore it is important for Hungary's sovereignty to see that this causes huge problems in other countries - that we would prohibit the introduction of foreign populations into the territory of Hungary. When my fellow Members watched the news this weekend, we probably didn't believe our eyes when Angela Merkel already said that Hungarians were actually protecting Germany's external borders. Ladies and gentlemen, How many times have we heard the opposite statements, whether from Germany or other European Union countries in the western part of the European Union, about how terrible it is, how inhumane what Hungarian border guards do at the external borders of the European Union when they comply with the common rules of the European Union? Now Angela Merkel admits that it is in Germany's interest to protect Hungary's external EU border. You can see this change of opinion. Who is the only European leader in the last three years who has not had to change an inch, not a millimeter of his position on migration, immigration? If you look at all European prime ministers or all European governments, it is only true for Hungary, so only for Viktor Orbán, that you say the same thing today as you did in 2015. If you look at all the other prime ministers in the other countries of the European Union, you can see huge changes. And I think, where there has not been any change so far, it will be there later, but Hungary may have been here as one country since 2015. Therefore, one of George Soros's biggest opponents is always a national government with such character. When they read its various statements, they always see the need to strengthen Brussels, to strengthen the various pressure groups that it calls civil society organisations, but it always sees obstacles in national governments, it never wants to confirm them, because there are less people there. There are obviously many places there, too, because the people of George Soros are almost everywhere, but it seems that in Brussels and in some pressure groups more than elsewhere, that is why he wants to strengthen Brussels and NGOs, and that is why he wants to reduce the weight of governments. He said, Mr. Group Leader, that, indeed, the home must be protected. Hungary not only protects the home of Hungarian people, but also rebuilds the home of people who have been expelled from their own homeland, because they have to be protected in their own home. Not in Europe, but in their homeland, because everyone has the right to thrive in their own homeland. This is what the Hungarian Helps program is all about. Within this framework, we have rebuilt their school in their own homeland, such as in Erbíl, or rebuilt a whole village in Telskuf, where thousands of people have been able to return, and continue their lives with a few years off from where they left off. That's why we've given supplies of drugs to St. Joseph's Hospital, which is why we help either in Syria or Jordan, so we help in Africa, Nigeria and elsewhere, so that we can provide health care, housing and safety to these people, because they have the right to continue their lives in their own homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-26	Dear House, The last of the speeches before the agenda will be Mr Máté Kocsis, leader of the Group, on the Fidesz part: the money of Soros! Tell me what you want to say with a title. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Discussions that have lasted for a long time and received more and more publicity have now made it quite clear to all thinking people... [[Máté Kocsis' microphone doesn't work.]]
u2018-06-11-28	Can I have the voice confirmed or restored, please?
u2018-06-11-29	... it has been made quite clear that what is happening to Europe at the moment with regard to illegal immigration is not a coincidence, and it is not an inevitable process, but a conscious series of events organised and supported by people. The work of troubled and motivated NGOs on illegal immigration, supported from abroad, serves to replace Europe's population. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is a population exchange in Europe, partly to create chaotic and dangerous situations with this unnatural process, which leads to a legitimate crisis, and in most cases to allow financial speculators like George Soros to make a lot of money by destroying the continent and causing a crisis. György Soros made his money out of speculation and destruction of people and countries; his wealth was speculated, destroyed, and built on immeasurable depravity and unscrupulousness. He is now using his money to flood Europe with migrants so that he can earn even more money. The start of the crisis or crisis, whether it is of any type, is not unprecedented in his life; let us just think about the attack on the British pound in 1992, the attack on Malaysia in 97, Argentina in 2001 and many African countries, and indeed in the 2000s he also attacked the OTP. It doesn't matter what it's like, it's just a crisis. He lures out other people's money, lives, families, and complete economies to use the dirty money he has acquired to create new crises. He socializes the problem he has created and distributes its solution among the people. At the same time, he has now attacked not only a continent's economy, but also its safety, culture and future, through philanthropic measures. For fake-human purposes, fake-human organizations and fake-civil organizations are also needed. It maintains a network worldwide, including in Hungary, whose members seek to intervene in the decisions and operations of democratically elected governments not only in Hungary but also in many parts of Europe. [[14.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, We must fight against this with an open helmet: they want immigration and a change of population, but we do not want that; nor do we want George Soros to make more money by destroying Europe. There really are people everywhere, here in the opposition benches of the Hungarian Parliament. But the fact that this is true also proves that the report of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, from which the lies of the Soros network come back about Hungary, for example that the Hungarian government's action against Soros is anti-Semitism. It is a lie, my fellow Members, because everyone knows that it is not the origin of Soros that is wrong, but his activity, his activities to help immigration, that he wants to destroy Europe, endanger the future and security, and that he wants to have another crisis to make a profit out of it. That's what speculators do. However, Hungary does not want to become an immigrant country, does not want to work on the implementation of the Soros plan and does not want to be the victim of it. The Hungarians made this perfectly clear in the parliamentary elections and in the referendum a year and a half ago. Therefore, by whatever means the Soros network tries to pressure us, we will protect Hungary, protect the safe future, and tell George Soros to take his dirty money from Hungary and Europe! Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-30	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, In recent weeks and days, there have been a number of developments and events that support what you have said and show why we need to strengthen our own security and act against illegal immigration in every possible way. One of these incidents occurred in Germany, and it shows what type of new security threat we are facing. In Wiesbaden, a 14-year-old girl was raped and murdered; the perpetrator was an immigrant who had been involved in five violent crimes before. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: A woman was killed in Soroks, and the unsub is still missing!]] Just like many other criminals and, by the way, terrorists, he claimed to be refugees, and while he was not granted refugee status, he could stay in Germany and commit the bestial murder. And after he did, he could have left Germany. He's been captured since then. This case illustrates how Europe and the European population will become increasingly vulnerable to this type of crime, and then we have not even talked about the threat of terrorism. This is what one of Amnesty's Hungarian activists said last week that Hungarians also commit this type of crime. This statement is scandalous not only because it is offensive to Hungarians [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] It is also because it does not take into account the dramatic increase in crime in immigration target countries, especially in cities, in large cities. In London, for example, the number of juvenile murders increased by 70 percent, and the number of rapes increased by 18 percent. In Germany between 2014 and 15 the number of attacks on persons doubled during the year of the migration crisis. Then another phenomenon: we also know that migration on the Western Balkans route is increasing. The Hungarian border is protected, as we know, by the border closure, so immigrants, smugglers, try to move towards Albania, Bosnia, Croatia and Slovenia. And it is not worth thinking that this is a problem for others, because it does not concern us, because no matter how immigrants arrive in Europe these days, if they put in place the introduction quota proposal, it would affect all countries, including Hungary. And what do international activists in support of immigration do in these circumstances? Well, they're launching a campaign for immigration. Amnesty, for example, launched a campaign to ensure that immigrants are accepted by individual countries, regardless of whether they are granted refugee rights, should not be expected at all before the evaluation, because this is a fundamental right. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] They also demand that relocation programmes be turned on; as they also demand that family reunification be facilitated; as they also demand that we spend more money helping sponsorship groups on this. And they also say that mobile phones and online dictionaries would be a great help to immigrants. If anyone has any doubts that foreign-funded groups support immigration, then we recommend that they read the Amnesty list of demands, there's everything in it black and white. And if you have time, feel free to read the latest resolution by György Soros, in which he says that legal immigration routes should be established, that EUR 30 billion should be spent on migration every year, and he also says that he himself opposes the Hungarian Prime Minister, because he is the protector of Christian Europe, the Hungarian Prime Minister. There is a reason why the new Italian Prime Minister is talking about ending the immigration business. If it depends on the Hungarian government, we will end this in Hungary too. This is what the amendment to the basic law serves, and the Stop Soros bill serves, which would punish the organisation of illegal immigration. For our part, we regret that opposition parties are still unable to put aside their internal political reflexes, based on their resolutions so far, they do not support either the amendment of the basic law or the Stop Soros bill. If you do not support the proposals on the table, you will again face the country's fundamental security interests. We've seen this before, we've had the results, and if they don't change, we'll have it now. The government is doing its job regardless, taking on every debate, fighting every political battle, because the goal remains the same: for us, the security of the country is the first, and the security of the country cannot be the path of bad compromises and retreat. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-06-11-33	Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Imre László, DK; László Lóránt Keres, LMP. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Gergely Arató, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; János Volner, Jobbik; Olivio Kocsis-Cake, Dialogue; Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz. On the day following the agenda tomorrow, Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; István Apáti, Jobbik.
u2018-06-11-34	Dear Parliament, We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the House that the President of the Dialogue for Hungary has resigned from the national list and has nominated Mr.Olivió Kocsis-Cake on the national list, as well as Mr.Görgy Gémesi has resigned from the list. On the basis of the electoral documents, the committee examined the regularity of the credentials of Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Krisztina Hohn. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2018-06-11-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Not to reiterate the fact that Mr President has already presented here with Parliament, I inform the Parliament that the National Election Committee is 984/2018. By decision No 31 May 2018, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio issued the vacant mandate. The decision was final on 3 June 2018, at 4 p.m. The transfer of the credentials took place on the same day. At its meeting a week ago, the Committee examined the documents submitted, which were necessary for the certificate of mandate. The Member has indicated that there is no conflict of interest against him, so he can exercise the rights of his representatives. After that, the immunity committee unanimously decided to propose to the Parliament the confirmation of Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio's mandate. The National Election Committee also informed our committee about that 985/2018. In its decision of 31 May 2018 to issue to Mrs Hohn Krisztina the vacant mandate of the May Other political nominating organisation. This Decision also became final on 3 June at 4 p.m. The mandate was handed over almost on this day. [[14.20]] The immunity committee also examined the documents submitted by Mrs Krisztina Hohn a week ago. He stated that the necessary documents were in order, and the Member also indicated to us that there was no conflict of interest in her, so that she could exercise the rights of her representatives. In his case, the immunity committee unanimously decided to propose to the Parliament that the Parliament justify Mrs Hohn Krisztina's mandate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-36	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The seats shall be certified by the Parliament individually, without debate. We're going to vote now. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies the mandate of Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has unanimously confirmed the mandate of Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio by 158 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to confirm Krisztina Hohn's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The mandate of Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn was also confirmed unanimously by 158 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, I'll ask representatives of Krisztina Hohn and Kocsis-Cake Olivio to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I would ask Mr Dezső Believer to read the text of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to listen to their oath standing up when the Member and the Member arrive. [[Krisztina Hohn and Olivio Kocsis-Cake step into the middle of the room. The people in this room stand up. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2018-06-11-37	I, Krisztina Hohn/Kocsis-Cake Olivio vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2018-06-11-38	After taking the oath, I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Members to sign them. [[First, Krisztina Hohn signs the oath papers. Attila Móring congratulates and gives a copy of the oath document. Car Cake Olivio also signs the oath papers. Attila Móring congratulates and gives a copy of the oath document. Krisztina Hohn and Olivio Kocsis-Cake Márton Gyöngyösi, Timea Szabó, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Dr. Ágnes Vadai, Lóránt László Keresztes, Imre Ritter, Máté Kocsis and Péter Harrach congratulates. Applause.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the new Members of this House effective work and good luck, both on behalf of myself and on behalf of the entire Parliament. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199 again, all of them can exercise their rights. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2017 B/322 invites the designated Cultural Committee. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament has asked the committee to discuss the proposal by 119 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Parliamentary Report on the Electronic Communications activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority B/323 invites the designated Economic Committee. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the committee was asked by the House to discuss and decide on the report by 120 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Economic Committee is invited by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, B/413. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote again. [[Vote.]] The committee was asked to discuss the proposal by the House with 120 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. I ask the Honourable National Assembly whether it invites the designated Cultural Committee to the work of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the general situation of Hungarian science in 2015-2016. B/414. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Committee to take a decision by 120 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Economic Committee is invited by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, B/415. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Once again, the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 120 votes in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he asks the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2017 B/416. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 120 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of Commission officials and members will follow. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/516 tabled by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2018-06-11-39	1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows: The National Assembly to the Committee of Culture, Dóra Dúró, to its independent, previously vacant vice-president, Balázs Ander, Jobbik; to the Committee of immunity Gergely Christmas, Dialogue, Olivio Kocsis-Cake, Dialogue, Vice-President of the Committee; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Gyula Molnár, MSZP; to the Committee on the Protection Committee Tamás Pintér, Jobbik, Dóra Dúró, independent; to the Committee on Agriculture, Dr. György Gémesi, LMP, to its former vacant place, Krisztina Hohn, LMP; to the Committee on People's Welfare, Balázs Ander, Jobbik, instead of Tamás Pintér, Jobbik, elected him as a member of the Committee. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2018-06-11-40	Dear House, It's time for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/516. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[14.30]] The House adopted the personal proposal by 159 votes to one, with no abstention. Dear House, The Parliament adopted its decision last week, in which it declared itself a member organisation of the Interparlamental Union and formed the Hungarian National Group of the IPU. We are now continuing our work as the forming assembly of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union. (Recess: 14.31-14.37) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2018-06-11-41	The House's meeting on the agenda will continue at 2:37 p.m. with the interpellations, with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor.
u2018-06-11-42	Dear Secretary of State, When the government elegantly stole Jobbik's ideas on Eastern diplomatic and economic opening a few years ago, we looked forward to the first results. We did this because it was never important for us to know who is implementing our ideas, but to serve the well-being of Hungarian people with our programmes and suggestions. Unfortunately, it soon became apparent that the opening up of the East in the government's interpretation was mostly open to the taking over of methods of power and corruption systems of moderate dictatorships. The Egyptian train tender won by the Hungarian Ganz in 2016 could have been a refreshing exception, in which the long-standing company could have produced 700 railway cars with the help of the loan of Eximbank for HUF 280 billion, giving hundreds of Hungarian people a job for years. If there were economic diplomacy, we would have considered this to be a success. I lived in Egypt for a while, so I know how popular Hungarian products are in this North African country, and I know the value of a good reputation in that part of the world. No wonder the Egyptian party clearly preferred the Hungarian candidate. Although we know that the government prefers to refer to the results of foreign companies with a home location as a Hungarian success, this time a truly Hungarian company would have had an outstanding opportunity. That is why I find it quite incredible that the government, through the state-owned Eximbank, which provided loans for development, has torpedoed Ganz's application and has turned the aid into the hands of a Russian company. So now, a long-standing Hungarian company with 357 employees, which has been present in Egypt for nearly a hundred years, has lost HUF 475 million instead of profit, while Eximbank, operating on the Hungarian taxpayer's money, supports the Russian company Transwagonmas, which can play the condition that the goods delivered be Hungarian by buying a share in the Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair. Once again, the Hungarian people only get the assembly tasks and the risk they now face through our Eximbank. Dear Secretary of State, What is behind the fact that the government that saw itself as a freedom fighter, abandoning a Hungarian company and its employees, played a business this big into Russian hands? How do you assess the growing suspicion that the Hungarian government is being blackmailed by external countries? Do you not feel that, with the help of a Hungarian state company, destroying a won business and taking money out of the pockets of Hungarian people is a qualified category of treason? Is it expected in the future that the Hungarian government will serve foreign interests against Hungarian companies? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-43	The floor for reply is the Hungarian Secretary of State Levente. [[14.40]]
u2018-06-11-44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that Jobbik has not yet contradicted our assumption that the party's situation, the extent of the party's hopelessness, is directly proportional to the sharpness and roughness of its rhetoric. Accusing the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, of treason in this case, I think it is an eloquent proof of our assumption. Honourable Congressman, Let's start at the beginning. East opening. I won't be happier, and the government won't feel any stronger if we disprove the illusion that the opening to the east was Jobbik's idea and took it from them. The opening of the East began more than six years ago, a particularly successful foreign economic and foreign policy orientation of the Hungarian government. I could list the figures, the external and political successes that support the validity of this policy, to show that it made sense to start it. Consider, for example, the increase in the share of operating capital from China or Japan coming to Hungary with very high added value. But I could also talk about the smaller countries to which the Hungarian foreign economy has been able to significantly increase its exports in recent years. Honourable Congressman, Turning to the merit of your question: indeed, there has been a very serious business in progress for years now, which is about the fact that the Egyptian railway company is talking about hundreds of sizes, in this case 1400, of ordering a new railway car. Indeed, it is true that in Egypt there is a very good name for the Hungarian machine production and, in particular, the Hungarian railway expertise. This is proven by the fact that, to this day in Egypt, the fast train is called the "Majar" - there is no need for a broader explanation of this item. Honourable Congressman, That, on the other hand, I have to say... [[He's taking a break for a minute.]] Let us just say that the Member was misinformed when he was informed that this transaction would be in danger when he was informed that anyone, let alone the Hungarian State, had stolen the perspective of this transaction from Ganz, and was misinformed when it was about the scale of this transaction, since it is now vastly larger than it initially seemed. At first, we discussed the transport of 700 railway cars with the Egyptians. Indeed, Ganz Danubius, one of the last flagboats of a large Hungarian industrial conglomerate, Ganz, once saw better days, would have delivered these railway wagons. I would note here, by the way, that the company that had ever seen better days, as I referred to it, and as we have just read about it, produced the battleship of St. Stephen, which was sunk just a hundred years ago, in Fiume more than a hundred years ago. So that's where this company started, which, after the change of regime, was one of the sad examples of the downswing of the Hungarian industry. In any case, this company would have transported 700 railway wagons to Egypt, which, however, was never secured against the Member's claim, had to compete very seriously with Russian and Chinese competitors. There is no need to compare the size of Russian and Chinese industrial companies with this small Hungarian company. This transaction would not have been feasible, it would not have been feasible without the association of one of the major competitors. The Russians have been elected, and as a result, honourable Member, honourable Parliament, we are now discussing the delivery of 1,400 railway wagons with the Egyptians. They would make a major part of Hungary, mainly create Hungarian jobs, enrich the Hungarian industrial traditions and develop the Hungarian industry. We are close to the agreement, at least closer than ever, and we will be proud of this success if it is established, because it will enhance the reputation of Hungarian industry. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-11-45	Once again, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor.
u2018-06-11-46	Dear Secretary of State, Interpellation is a genre that must be published in writing before it is said, so this interpellation was delivered by me two weeks ago. For someone who's had two weeks to think about how to respond to this interpellation with a lot of specifics, your response was very weak. Well, I'm glad that after three minutes, you've crept on the substance of your response. But it turns out from your answer that yes, the contract signed by Ganz was passed on to a Russian company, and Eximbank's loan for production financed by Hungarian taxpayers' money was transferred to Russian interests and Russian hands. I believe that this is a complete betrayal of Hungarian national and economic interests, and that your ministry and you must answer for it personally. I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-11-47	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 37 with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the government not ensure real equal opportunities? What does the government do to reduce wage differences between women and men? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance with responsibility and competence will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-11-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of EU law, including the world of work. Direct or indirect discrimination between women and men is common, including in terms of application, working conditions and progress, but there are greater and more lasting differences in wages for work of equal value or equivalent value. From the outset, the principle of equal pay for equal work has appeared in the community of European Member States at the level of legislation. The Treaty of Rome was first written in 1957, and the Treaty on today's Union is also very precise about this. The Treaty on the Functioning of the Union states that it seeks to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between women and men in the pursuit of the Union's activities and to combat all gender discrimination. It is not only EU law but also a number of international conventions that prioritise equality, including the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, CEDAW and its Optional Protocols, adopted in 1967. Unfortunately, the Hungarian Fundamental Law does not include the requirement of equal pay for equal work, but defines the promotion of equal opportunities for women as a disadvantaged social group as a goal. The Law on Equal Treatment and Equal Opportunities explicitly defines the difference in remuneration for equal work as a form of gender discrimination. In addition to the surveys included in the Decision, the Equal Treatment Authority, labour courts and employers' and employees' interest representatives need positive measures to promote equality. On 7 March 2014, the Commission of the European Union issued a recommendation to strengthen the principle of equal pay for men and women by transparency. From the set of recommendations for the necessary measures, the Member States themselves will choose, with a common aim: to improve wage transparency. Dear Secretary of State, Why doesn't the government guarantee real equal opportunities? What does the government do to reduce wage differences between women and men? Does the government support the parliamentary proposal I have just tabled? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-11-49	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-50	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and His interpellation was a little long in writing, so I'm helping the Parliament understand it. Today, at 11:19 a.m., you submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution on this subject. I would like to inform you that on 15 August 2016 and 7 November 2016 the same resolution proposal has already been submitted to Parliament by colleagues Nándor Gúr and Lajos Korózs. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They try, they try!]] I would also like to inform you, as you said, that this European Commission is based on a recommendation of March 2014 and aimed at enforcing its provisions. [[14.50]] Obviously, it hasn't worked in that time, since, essentially, just an hour ago, he submitted the draft parliamentary resolution proposal, so allow me to state the government's position, opinion and information on this issue, which is, of course, a very, very important issue for society. I would like to assure you that the Government is committed to the enforcement of women's rights, but it does not do this by emphasising gender differences, but focuses on creating and strengthening conditions for balanced cooperation between them. The government will ensure real equal opportunities and will do everything in its power to reduce the wage gap between women and men. There are wage differences between the sexes in all countries, this is not a specific Hungarian phenomenon. If we look at the difference between wages between the two sexes in Hungary, we can conclude that this difference is below average for the 28 Member States in Hungary. Based on Eurostat's relevant report, gender pay differentials in Hungary decreased after 2012, and significant increases in wages have also been made in recent years in sectors with high female employment rates, such as those working in public education, health and social institutions. [[Gergely Harvester: Don't be ridiculous.]] Also, based on Eurostat's statistical report, it can be concluded that women's hourly earnings in 28 Member States are on average 16.2 percent lower than men's, compared with 14 percent in Hungary. It is worse than our country, for example, Austria, Germany or the United Kingdom, but Norway and Iceland are also countries outside the European Union. However, I would also like to stress that the employment situation of women has also improved significantly, with the number of female employees increasing by some 280 thousand since the 2010 government change. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the public sector, the pay systems do not contain any gender discrimination, and in the competitive sector, it is the undertaking that decides who is employed and how much. In particular, the efforts of the social partners can lead to the elimination of unjustified wage differences between those who work with the same level of education and in the same position. I stress that the government is also doing everything in its power to reduce wage differences. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-51	I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you have some thoughts on the subject. And since this is a re-answered question, since this matter must be dealt with, it is obvious that it has been prepared. I think it would also be scandalous if the left-handed or the glassesmen made less money. I think it's a scandal. It is undoubtedly a fact that there are Member States, as you mentioned, where Hungary is better off. The worst situation is with the Estonians, where it's nearly 30 percent. I think that the pay gap between women and men is not a political or economic issue, but I think it is a question of civilization, which is not just a question for women. The problems of education, health and the social sector are also partly caused by this discrimination. Look, those tracks are the most feminine ones where they make a lot less money, because there's a lot of women here who work for less money. Minister, I cannot accept your answer.
u2018-06-11-53	I ask this House if it will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 120 votes to 36 with one abstention. Dear Parliament, DK's representative, László Varju, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Hungary is the first pocket or their own pocket? It's an address. The Interpellation will be answered by a representative of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology who is competent according to the topic on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-54	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Let us continue our European affairs because the European Commission's inspectors and public procurements visited Budapest in November. The results of the study are known: 34 procedures worth HUF 1500 billion have been examined and Hungary will be punished for HUF 150 billion as a result of this finding. They're demanding it back because you ruined it, stole this money, and you're being punished for it. You know, it's like when Grandma gives money to her granddaughter to teach her dad, and it steals it, and it ruins it. Don't be surprised if Grandma's gonna disguise you and punish you. Dear Secretary of State, Before you write in your notes to mention the last eight years, I respectfully indicate that these procedures were completed between 2015 and 2017. With this solution, you have made dirty money out of the European Union's money. They took it, stole it, used the EU money sent to Hungarians for their own farming. They were in Brussels, filling their own pockets with money from Brussels. You turned it on a helicopter, but now that you have to pay it back, you do not have to sell the helicopters, but you will have to do it with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. According to the Hungarian public procurement system, corruption makes it barely operational. It's not national, it's not Christian, it's simple corruption, what they're doing. The systematic looting of Hungary is equal to what is happening. If you pay this penalty, you will not have to repay it, but the Hungarians will do it. You may have been informed by Minister, but you have also been informed that the Democratic Coalition has sent a letter to the leaders of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council. Imagine, we did not ask for this money to be banned and the Hungarians did not receive this money, but for it to be taken away from a government operating such a corrupt system and a failed public procurement system, and for the European Union to pay its attention directly to it, and to be distributed by them. We don't want them to take it from the Hungarians, we want them to steal it from you. I believe that you must answer what you will do in the future. Why do Hungarians have to pay back this money, this punishment? [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-11-55	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2018-06-11-56	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We are used to some European politicians constantly digging against Hungary. They do so, among other things, because the Government of Hungary has such a strong legitimacy that they do not dare to dream of for themselves. Nor do they take kindly to the fact that, although now, thank God, we are not alone trying to prevent their self-destructive plan for migration, because it wants to rely on its own resources, rather than importing people, culture and chaos from abroad. Unfortunately, however, we also had to get used to the fact that these plans also have domestic supporters. It is unworthy that in the Hungarian Parliament we have to argue with a party whose work, or rather its activity, has been undermining the authority of our country for years, and constantly prosecuting Hungary with the bureaucrats in Brussels. And it is absolutely pathetic for you to have confused or deliberately confused concepts about the basic concepts of EU development resources at the same time. It is clear from your interpellation, Mr President, that you cannot or do not want to distinguish between the procurement procedure and the tendering procedure. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But let's put this aside generously. As you know, the purpose of the public procurement audit was to check the proper functioning of the management and control systems. I repeat to the draft report on the audit carried out: its draft - which is not yet public, Hungary can comment, and we will do so at the right time. [[15.00]] However, it can already be said that it was a politically motivated material, whose primary objective is to re-target Hungary. We are not surprised at this, as pro-immigration politicians and organisations have been threatening for years with the withdrawal of development resources for Hungary. We will not let this happen, even if you are happy about it, because these resources are due to Hungary, the Hungarian people. The recent election campaign also shows that it is a proportion of the coalition called democratic in the area of national cohesion and the protection of values. We thank DK for its destructive, exclusional and Hungarian people's policy against each other, and we do not ask for it. It's a clear decision of the electorate. In terms of national and Christian politics, let us put it this way: it is not the opinion of a relevant party and of an anti-national and anti-church party. [[Gergely Harvester: What about KDNP?]] Honourable Congressman, The result of the parliamentary elections in 2018 was indisputable and overwhelming. The Hungarian people want Hungary to remain Hungarian again and not become a playground for foreign interests. We therefore do not support your proposal. We do not want others to tell us what improvements our country needs. Congressman! If you love your country, you don't even suggest it, you don't do that. We Hungarian citizens want to make decisions on issues concerning Hungary. The government is working to protect the EU's development resources for Hungary now and in the future and to use them to develop Hungary, because Hungary is our first. [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks.]] Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully welcome all Members of this House, the kind guests, and ask Mr László Varju if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. After it's obvious that you're doing a sweeping job from the state budget, you're making dirty money from the European Union's money working for you, so this answer you've said is unacceptable. The development money for Hungary must be delivered to the Hungarian people, and this is exactly what we propose. It prevents you from stealing it, helicoptering it, reprimanding it, and otherwise giving it to your own friends. You know perfectly well that it is the billionaire pro-government politicians and oligarchs who are doing this, and this is something to be protested about. The Democratic Coalition will continue to represent Hungary's interests, however the Fidesz will stick to its own pocket. Thank you very much, I don't accept the answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-11-59	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes in favour, 37 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When will the local people be asked about the Boda nuclear cemetery? It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-60	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am going to ask a relatively specific question, and I hope that you will get enough anger from the pro-government benches, and that you will be able to give a concrete, not political, answer to that. As a Member of Pécs, I would like to talk about a matter that concerns the people of Pécs and the people of the area very strongly and defines their future. It is well known that a few kilometres from the western border of Pécs has been planned for many years to establish a high-activity nuclear waste storage facility, such as a nuclear cemetery. Three years ago, Viktor Orbán promised the people of Pécs and the people in the area that without their decision, such an establishment would not be possible. Compared to this, following the Prime Minister's words, we submitted a draft law which would have been about the obligation to take into account the opinion of the local authorities concerned within a certain distance, in Hungarian: the bodies concerned would have veto rights. Despite the Prime Minister's promise, this bill was swept off the table by the pro-government majority practically without any debate. In fact, all that was achieved after that was that at least the germ of some information had started on this issue. But perhaps you do not know, fellow Members, that despite the fact that the Pécs have not been asked, despite Prime Minister's promise, billions have been spent on this project. And we know that in the case of such an investment, money and time are the two narrowest resources. My specific questions. In the light of the above, I would like to ask the authorities whether they consider themselves to be the Prime Minister of the Government's promise to the President in 2015 before the Pécs, and whether they hold themselves to the fact that such an investment cannot take place without asking the Pécs. If you stick to this, so Mr. Prime Minister is not being lied to, then who will take responsibility for the use of billions spent on research since then? My third concrete question is what concerns a very important professional step. When are the competent authorities or policy makers intended to instruct those responsible to examine potential research areas from a social and economic point of view in Hungarian: to examine from the point of view of the people, from among the locations available for this high-activity waste storage facility in the country, considering such aspects, which is the most appropriate location? Thank you very much for the answer.
u2018-06-11-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In line with what you have said, the procedure is taking place, as the national policy of spent fuel and radioactive waste management has been adopted by the Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the Nuclear Power Act in accordance with the relevant EU Directive. National policy states that the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste should be resolved in Hungary in a storage facility designed in a stable depth geological formation. The government adopted a national programme for the achievement of the objectives of national policy by means of a government decision on the national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The national programme deals with the history of the selection of the site of deep geological storage. In this context, he describes this developmental evaluation research carried out in the early 2000s, as a result of which geological research aimed at selecting the site is highlighted: research is currently taking place in West Mecs. Research in the area of 87.5 square kilometres aims to identify, taking into account several aspects, the smallest section or parts of space to which more detailed studies should be focused. International experience shows that the selection and subsequent certification process of a deep geological storage site requires decades of research, of which Hungary is still at the beginning. If research has been carried out to a large extent to demonstrate that the Boda site may be suitable for the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste, the establishment of an underground laboratory will be necessary after the Parliament's prior approval in principle and the tests carried out there will have to establish the suitability of the site. The company that handles radioactive waste. has fulfilled its task of providing information required by the nuclear law. The company that handles radioactive waste. Its communication strategy is to inform locals of their views in the form of local opinion polls in the region. It will also hold an information forum, which will be held in Boda in September each year, together with the Social, Information, Control and City Development Self-Government Association in West Mecsek. The company that handles radioactive waste. The city of Pécs has been informed of the current state of play of the research programme through a public hearing and at the invitation of additional civil society organisations. As a basic principle, the nuclear law states that safety takes precedence over all other aspects in the application of nuclear power. Therefore, the primary aspect of security and not the economic aspect will be the search for a possible site for a deep geological storage. In accordance with the relevant EU rules, the nuclear law requires that, with the exception of the financing of assets accumulated in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund and municipal associations for control and information purposes, it can only be used to finance tasks related to the final disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuel and the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle and the decommissioning of the nuclear installation. In view of this, I respectfully ask for my reply to be accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2018-06-11-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Secretary of State referred to international obligations, contracts and experiences, but not to a very important experience in this respect, which the Secretary of State did not mention. In many countries, such research continues on the establishment of a single site for high-activity waste storage, and it is clear and the most important international experience that it is impossible to designate such a site without informing and contributing to the population concerned. That is why we have been talking about these issues for years, and I hope that at least the Fidesz representative of Pécs and the Fidesz politicians of Pécs have just observed this speech of State Secretary; they have also denied that any decisions have been made on this issue, even though we have repeatedly called their attention to this parliamentary decision. So I repeat: it is absolutely clear and one of the most important relevant international experiences that such investment cannot be made without the consent of the population concerned. That is why we considered it very important that the Prime Minister promised to do so in Pécs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's not gonna happen without asking the Pécs about this investment. I learned from the Secretary of State's reply that Fidesz and the government had deceived the Pécs because they had no intention of asking the opinion of the people there. Of course, I cannot accept the answer.
u2018-06-11-65	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Interpelling Member did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 116 votes in favour, 34 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance: what does the government do about weakening forints and expensive fuels? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The average price of gas oil increased to HUF 410 from 30 May, and the average price of petrol is close to HUF 400. The effect of increasing fuel is also spilled over into the price of other products, making them feel their effect in everyday life. Food inflation is already significant. If you look at the latest figures, the eggs are 20.5 percent, the pasta is more than 12 percent, the butter, butter cream is nearly 12 percent, the dairy products are nearly 8 percent, and the flour is increased by 7 percent. Everything points to the fact that the price will only grow. This is compounded by the infirmity of the forint, it seems that we need to get used to the freezingly weak levels of 320 HUF. In the first round, the effect of this is felt by holidaymakers going abroad, but in the second round we will all be perceived through inflation. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that there has been no increase in social benefits, such as family allowances, since they entered the government. It is not acceptable to answer that there is a family discount. [[György Balla: Why? Why not?]] For children whose parents are in a situation where they cannot take advantage of family benefits also deserve to be cared, honourable fellow Members. [[István Szilárd Németh: Everyone deserves it!]] The family allowance has not been increased since 2010, the child has not been raised, the pension minimum has not been increased. In addition, some 200,000 employees in the public sector still receive their salaries on a frozen pay sign during the crisis. As if inflation did not exist; although this inflation exists very much, and it affects food in particular. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: what does the government intend to do about weakening forints and expensive fuels, and do you plan to compensate all those whose care and wages are worth less and less in real terms? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-11-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm looking at the benches of the MSZP, but it's not there... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is DK!]] Twenty years ago, he was always sitting in the benches of the MSZP... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai on the right: The MSZP was sitting there in the previous...]] Before the election, I read that he was a candidate for the MSZP [[Interjection from DK's ranks: Does this make milk cheaper?]] And now I can't find it in the benches of the MSZP. I would like to make my first comment to the Member that what he said about fuel prices by May is no longer true, because fuel prices are falling, and both fuels are already below 400 forints. I would also like to tell you that the fact that the rate of the forint may be weakening now or the price of the fuel is slightly rising may not have an impact on the social groups that you have targeted in your interpellation to protect them now. I'll tell you, he's targeted seven social groups in his interpellation, and if I may, I'd like to respond to them one by one. Number one: commercial gas oil reclaimers. I would like to say that the number of these entrepreneurs is increasing, the amount to be reclaimed is increasing, already above HUF 10 billion. Then he tried to protect the carrier contractors. The number of transport operators who claim the VAT on gas oil due to their business is increasing and, moreover, the amount of fuel consumed has increased significantly in the first quarter, despite the increase in the price increase, so that the increase in the price of fuel does not affect the transport companies in terms of consumption. Then he said that those who didn't work and only received family allowances and then made family tax breaks go away. I would like to say to you that this cannot be babysitted, because in 2016 there were 1 million 44 thousand families in Hungary; while at your time, in 2010, this number was 106 thousand. In 2018, the rate of family tax relief already amounted to HUF 316 billion, at your time, in 2010 it was HUF 12.6 billion. And the families you're talking about being able to use only family allowances, 5 percent of the total users, this is about 50,000 families, which is very significant. I would like to tell you that these families, on the other hand, have different ways of getting state support, social assistance, see free meals or free textbooks. I think these families aren't gonna miss out on benefits. The suspects: while the number of people in your time has decreased, since 2010, it has increased, now it is 164 thousand. He was trying to protect the pensioners: the pensioners thank you, they don't want any of this. They do not ask because during the Fidesz government, the real value of pensions has increased, as the government has promised, or at least the government has protected pensioners from inflation. And finally, as a sixth or seventh, you were also trying to protect public sector workers from this significant burden. They too thank and do not ask for any of this, since the introduction of a career was significant and had a significant impact on the standard of living of public sector workers. True, the course of life has not yet been completed everywhere, but in this cycle, those people, the public sector workers, will also receive the career application, just like others. Finally, it is very interesting, but you also protected foreign holidaymakers from inflation. Well, if someone doesn't ask you to do that, they must be going abroad. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Holiday homes. So I think the government has done everything in its power to protect these people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-06-11-70	Mr President, to answer that, you need a sense of humor, I must be honest with you. The Secretary of State talked about a lot of things I didn't ask you, and he didn't say anything about what I asked. This is a very specific attitude, especially in the light of the billions of forints spent on rewards in your ministries before the elections, on your direct colleagues. [[15.20]] Those civil servants were valued, taking care of their foreign vacations. However, the 200,000 public servants who work in municipalities for example and have not received a salary increase since 2010 do not want to take care of them at all. Secretary of State, that answer was simply invaluable and unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-11-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the House whether it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Member Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:.Excellent GDP data! What is the result of the good performance of the Hungarian economy? It's an address. Congressman Bánki has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-11-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, According to the information provided by KSH on 5 June, Hungary's gross domestic product increased by 4.4 percent in the first quarter of 2018 and by 4.7 percent in relation to the same period of the previous year, according to seasonal and calendar-adjusted, balanced data. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Despite all the cautious predictions, last year's economic growth exceeded 4 percent thought to be unattainable for a long time, and the final figure was 4.2 percent. At the same time, there are skeptical and disbelief left-wing economists and London analysts who believe that our lag in the region continues, the current growth is due only to EU funds, which, of course, is not sustainable in the long term. Unfortunately, they forget to add that we managed to catch up just during the 8-year MSZP-SZDSZ government, in the period immediately before and after our accession to the EU. Let us recall that in 2009, when Poland's economic growth exceeded 1 percent, the Hungarian economy decreased by almost 7 percent. Not to mention that all this has been achieved while the country has become indebted, the IMF and the European Union have intervened with credit; all economic indicators have approached the critical level of bankruptcy. Fortunately, however, we are now in the process of increasing employment with a reduction in public debt; unemployment has fallen to record levels; the country's ability to finance has improved incomparably; the expectations of economic operators are more positive than ever. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that economic growth is good that does not upset the financial balance. In this regard, I would like to point out that for decades the left and the liberals have been pushing for growth and balance of public finances at the same time. We have demonstrated that balance and growth can work together in parallel, thanks to which we have achieved successes in the last 8 years that are outstanding at Central European and even European level. In my view, we can also be optimistic about the future, as the driving force of growth is not only the growing demand for exports, but also the heating capacity of domestic economies, internal engines and the growth of internal demand. In the light of all this, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how do you see how the good performance of the Hungarian economy results? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-11-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the performance of the Hungarian economy is outstanding in terms of the European Union, as while the EU average was 2.4 percent, the Hungarian economy was able to show 4.4 percent economic growth in the first quarter. This means that the Hungarian economy is expanding almost twice as quickly as the EU average. It is very important that the results of the last few years confirm the economic policy of the Hungarian government, the government measures that clearly sought to ensure that the Hungarian economy could continue to grow. Among these, the 6-year wage agreement concluded in November 2016 significantly contributed to the dynamic growth of wages and to the improvement of our competitiveness. It is very important that the Hungarian economy is predictable in terms of wage growth and predictable in terms of reducing public burdens. As a result of the aforementioned wage agreement, there was a significant income outflow already in 2017. This outflow of income meant, on the one hand, the appreciation of workers and, on the other, a significant impact on consumption, as consumption increased by around 6 percent in the first quarter of 2018, for example. The increase in consumption is important because if a country consumes more, it is clear that more products must be produced and produced, and this means that our economic growth will be greater. As regards economic growth, it is good for everyone to be able to increase their economic performance as much as possible. It is good for public finances, because tax revenues are increasing; it is good for the entrepreneur, the business, because more resources are generated and, in particular, more for wage development and investment by reducing taxes and reducing public burdens; and it is good for the worker, because it can generate higher incomes, thereby increasing his standard of living and contributing to the growth of the economy again with the consumption already mentioned. But that's not the only thing that's necessary for an economy to do well. It is necessary that an investor environment can be created by a state, a government, where it is worth investing, where it can be calculated either by the Hungarian small entrepreneur, medium-sized enterprise or by an investor from abroad to Hungary. It is important that taxes, such as corporate tax, are reduced at the lowest level in Hungary at EU level, with 9 percent. It is important to reduce the labour burden. From 2016 to this year, the social contribution tax has decreased by 19.5 percent and is expected to decrease by another 2-2 percent in the coming years. By 2022, we would like to make only 11.5 percent of the 27 percent tax. I think that the government is responsible in this regard; the government's work has been confirmed by the results of recent years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are on the right track, and we intend to continue this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-11-75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Erik Bánki if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-76	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, According to a saying in the Far East, those who want to travel quickly go alone, but those who want to go far, go with good company. I think that, as the Secretary of State mentioned, the six-year wage agreement that the government has been able to conclude with industry, employers and employees in a unique manner, has created predictable relations with regard to wage increases and the reduction of the tax burden on employment and the burden on labour, which brings significant benefits not only to the employment sector but also to the workers themselves. This is the result of an intensive wage increase in the last year, which exceeded 12 per cent net, which has led to an average salary increase of 320 thousand forints in Hungary and is expected to increase at a similar rate in the next 4 years. So I am very pleased that the government is determined to continue to stimulate economic growth. We trust that all Hungarian citizens [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This will bring the same predictable growth path in the future as we have seen in recent years. Of course, I accept your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: Oh!]]
u2018-06-11-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman, please. [[15.30]]
u2018-06-11-78	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, One of the most important indicators of a society's level of development is the degree and quality of material and moral prestige of intellectuals. After 1945, the Communist dictatorship, which was built in this case, also caused serious wreckage in our country, but this party state view and perception has revived today. In recent years, Fidesz has made it clear that it sees an enemy rather than a partner in the Hungarian intellectuals. This is complemented by the existence and intimidation of vulnerable scribes living in small towns and small settlements. The image is devastating: the pay conditions of higher education professionals are not at the level of a strong and proud country, but at the level of a banana republic, although it should be noted that our colleagues earn twice or three times as much in some Latin American countries as in Hungary. In addition, the overall picture is characterised by terrible anomalies, as the fact that, let's say, the PhD students' scholarships are higher than the salaries of the university advisors who teach them. Compared to those in public education, there is humiliatingly little for a university teaching assistant, most of whom already have a doctoral title. By the way, the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Pálinkás, also drew your attention to this when the teacher career model was introduced, of course Comrade Pálinkás has been considered a trocist defiant since then, if I have read the news correctly. I recently met a colleague of mine who had been habilitating for four or five years, and he has just submitted his title of academy major doctor, and he is an assistant professor, since the bled-out Hungarian universities are not able to promote colleagues on the basis of scientific or educational performance. It is no wonder, of course, that in 2011 Fidesz stated in the Széll Kálmán plan that Hungarian higher education does not produce value, so they reduced the funding of universities from 200 billion to 132 billion, which has been slowly dripping back, and they believe that it is now okay. So I ask Mr State Secretary: when and how does the government intend to respond to the announcements submitted by the Hungarian Rector Conference and the Higher Education Workers' Union on several occasions for higher education wage developments? I quote the latest trade union statement, which states that by settling teacher's wages, it is necessary to ensure that the guaranteed monthly net earnings of initial instructors exceed substantially the rate of the graduate doctoral students' scholarship. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that the wages of Hungarian higher education are even humiliatingly low in Central European comparison, and recently the Vice-Rector of ELTE said that our Czech or Slovak colleagues, i.e. in the countries of the great Visegrád cooperation, earn twice or three times as much money from university teachers as we do. So that's the question. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that the future of the Hungarian scientific supply will indeed be played, because according to your government, then we should all go to the supermarket, because there we would earn a great deal more than our current wage. Thank you for your answer.
u2018-06-11-79	Thank you very much. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Apparently, the same record is stuck in opposition parties, and they can't put up new records in the new cycle, either, they stay where they were before; they don't notice the steps that have taken and they put up records again, again and again in 2010. If we look at the progress that has been made in higher education and in the whole field of education, then we can see that this year the amount that we are spending on education is finally above HUF 2000 billion, and this includes, of course, the part of public education and the part of higher education. If we look at the extra resources of higher education, we can see that here, looking at the last few years alone, we can talk about a 38 percent increase from 2010, and now it is 247 billion forints that Hungary spends on higher education. One of the biggest expansions was when we wanted to make teaching and research careers more attractive and the government decided to raise wages. For several years, there has been a steady increase in wages in Hungary. In 2016, there was a 15% wage increase in higher education, followed by a further 5% and 5% wage increase in 2017 and 2018, resulting in an overall 27 percent wage increase and a university teacher's minimum salary rose to HUF 554 400. At the same time, it is an important aspect, which is something that the Member has also pointed out, so that the university can provide as much replacement as possible. That is why we have tried to achieve different programmes, different wage increases, so that for young people at the beginning of their career, who obviously earn less than those who are at the end of their career, this increase is even more noticeable. With a salary of HUF 596 090, a 70 percent increase has been recorded in recent years for university professors in category 1. A university assistant also recorded a 50 percent increase in category 1, a 37 percent increase in category 1 of a university assistant, precisely so that we can keep as much as possible those young university professors who can establish the competitiveness of the university. The economic stability of universities was important. If you remember, 5-6 years ago or 10 years ago, the universities suffered from PPP schemes. The reason why they could not manage the appropriate budget frameworks for either wages or others is because these structures concluded under the former social-liberal government were extremely detrimental to universities. For this reason, in 2016 we replaced 12 PPPs from budget support to HUF 29 billion, the budget gave HUF 29 billion, but it also resulted in savings of HUF 14 billion for universities that they managed to get out of them in a good construction. In 2017 too, HUF 5.3 billion is available for universities and HUF 2 billion is available for universities to withdraw from PPPs in 2018. We also tried to create better financial conditions among PhD Scholarships: their scholarship is now 140,000 forints in the first two years instead of 100 000 forints, then 180,000 forints for research years, so there is a much bigger increase. This year, we are spending HUF 15 billion on the institutional excellence programme of higher education, which is much higher than before, and this kind of management plus assistance and more discipline has also brought its results, as the university's debt fell to a fraction, while in 2014 the university's bank account had HUF 50 billion in HUF 50 billion! - now there's 320 billion forints in the university bank account. This shows how much more stable university farming is. And the demeaning, honourable Member, that you have made with regard to the chargers, I strongly reject. In Hungary, of course, there is also a need for chargers [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and we are proud that we were able to double their wages by doubling the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in Hungary. In order for you to be able to shop, their work is also necessary. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Don't talk about them like that, because then you won't find anything on the shelves you can buy for yourself. That remark is most definitely rejected. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-82	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In his reply, he did not respond in any way to the anomalies I raised, he did not respond in any way to the fact that there were specific wage increases behind the percentage wage increases you listed; I am talking in particular about the academic assistant and assistant assistant assistant and assistant salary at the lower levels of the university hierarchy, and that, before the percentages you mentioned, there has been no wage development in universities since 2001. I think we should not discuss the management of universities at this point on the agenda since the introduction of the Chancellor's system. We are talking about serious violations of academic autonomy and academic sphere. In addition, the fact that my colleagues are making a lot of money, that I have combined the salaries of university teachers, I think it is very, very effective to show that there is a serious lag in the pay of university teachers, and I was referring to that, and not to their work in any way I was trying to judge negatively, of course. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Unfortunately, I cannot accept your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I put the question to the vote, honourable Member, this was your first speech, I did not give you a warning. You do not have the possibility to deviate from the text of the interpellation, and in particular you do not have the possibility to, by way of derogation, say, provide the former president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences with unworthy indications, and you do not have the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Honourable Parliament! Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 118 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, submitted an interview to the Minister of Finance:. What are the conditions under which our students can work in the summer, and how does the government support this? It's an address. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The summer break soon came and a significant number of students finish the school, so it is obvious that we pay particular attention to the opportunities for students to work in the summer. During the year, students can earn some income in the summer, on the one hand, and on the other hand, gain work experience, and on the other hand a success experience through well done work. Since 2010, more than 750 thousand new jobs have been created in Hungary, but in some regions and in some professions there has been a serious shortage of labour, which can be well addressed by the employment of students. The labour market is open to young workers, and they are willing to employ up-to-date knowledge and practice young workers with higher wages. We also have many examples of the fact that, after the summer work at the company, the student is later located at the company as a permanent employee. As with traditional employment, the conditions under which students work in employment are regulated by the Labour Code, so it is important to have a written contract of employment for students aged 16 and over. The contract shall include the basic wage and the job as a mandatory element and may provide for the place of work, the day-to-day working time and the duration of employment. As an add-on, during the summer break, students of the 15th year of age can also take up a job. Furthermore, it is important to note that in the case of students aged between 15 and 18, the contract of employment must include the consent of the legal representative, otherwise the contract of employment is invalid. Students can choose between a number of forms of employment: employment under a traditional contract of employment, employment in the form of occasional work within the framework of simplified employment and employment through a school cooperative. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what to pay attention to during the summer work. Under what conditions can our students work, and how does the government support their summer work? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-85	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-86	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have said many things about the employment of students, let me draw attention to a few things, as you have asked in your interpellation. One important thing to know is that employment with the same employer in the agricultural and tourist season can cover up to 120 working days per year, up to five consecutive days per casual work, up to 15 days per month and up to 90 days per year. In the case of the employment of the school cooperative, a membership agreement is concluded between the school cooperative and the student, in which the tasks of the student and the fees related to each task shall be fixed, which shall not be lower than the minimum wage or the minimum wage guaranteed at the time. Young workers are also protected by special legal guarantees in view of their age in their work. Thus, for example, they cannot do night work; extraordinary work cannot be ordered for them. Their daily working time shall be no more than 8 hours, they may be ordered to work within a maximum one week working time, and their rest periods shall not be unevenly divided. These guarantees shall apply to all employment relationships. I stress that the principle of equal treatment, equal pay for equal work, must also apply to students. The parties to the contract of employment may agree on monthly, weekly, daily or hourly wages or even on performance wages. However, the employee must receive the minimum wage, which is the guaranteed minimum wage of 138 thousand gross jobs for 8 hours of employment, which is HUF 180 500 gross. The government specifically supports student work. In 2018, the Ministry of Finance announced the Summer Student Work Programme with a grant of HUF 3 billion, under which students aged 16-25 can get a job. There are several new elements of the programme, it is worth learning about these conditions on the Ministry of Finance's website. With the amount available this year, we expect to provide work again for 25-30 thousand students during the summer period. The popularity of the program is indicated by the participation of 27 thousand students last year, many of them also performed their mandatory internships. The programme supports wages, 100% for municipalities, which can be given up to two and a half months, between 18 June and 31 August, for a maximum period of 6 hours per day. The amount corresponds to the minimum wage or to the pro rata part of the guaranteed anything already mentioned. Thus, it is 135 375 forints for qualified persons and 103 500 forints gross for unskilled persons. Local governments and companies active in catering and agriculture must submit their labour needs to the district offices. Students may register at the employment department of the competent district office. The government and, of course, the Ministry of Finance are very confident that the employment of students this summer will be even more effective than in the previous year. To this end, we have announced this programme and we are very confident that it will be successful and that employers and students can make use of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-88	Properly regulated student work benefits everyone, and I respectfully accept Mr. Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-89	Thank you very much. Congresswoman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the interpellations, 15 hours and 47 minutes. We are now taking a two-minute technical break in order to ensure that all those who leave the Chamber because of their urgent duties can do so without delay. [[It's a short break.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to have your important meetings outside the Chamber if you do not refer to the speeches to be held at the meeting. And my fellow Members, who give me the opportunity to address and answer immediate questions, I call for them to take their seats. Thank you very much. I would also ask my fellow pro-government Members, if they do not want to hear the comments, speeches, suggestions, to get tired. Thank you. It's time for immediate questioning. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik's representative, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the responding party, or you will ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2018-06-11-90	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2018-06-11-91	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr. Group Leader, which you certainly know is that Mr. Prime Minister must answer your question at the hour of the second immediate question. Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: why does the government stand by and watch the explosion of rent prices, which in many cases makes it impossible for young people to learn and start their lives? Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Mr. Group Director if he accepts the person who is responding. He said he'd take it. Mr. Gergely Farkas has the floor, Mr. Chairman of the Group. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-92	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The issue of housing is an issue that has a major impact on the demographics that threaten our country, on emigration, which has never been so great, on the situation of families, and the problems that have been affected by this issue could still be identified. When we have a problem with this, you usually try to dissuade it by referring to the CSOK, by reason of it and by positive developments, but I would like to stress that I do not want to open a debate on the CSOK, because I do not want to talk about permanent, permanent housing, but about temporary, temporary housing. It is very important to note, and we can all see that in recent years there has been a price explosion in the rental market. In some cities the price of the apartments has been doubled, in Budapest the rent prices have been doubled for the people from a few years ago, and the average rent price is today in Budapest around 130-140 thousand forints. This is particularly serious, for example, for young people, who are often forced to use a sublet because of further education. Because, as we know very well, in Hungary there are few dormitory seats, so it is very often that students, college students, are not admitted to college. At this time, they have no choice but to try to go to the apartment, but many young people do not have the family background to do so. Thus, a factor immediately comes into force, where it is not how talented, hardworking a young person is, but whether his family background allows him to rent a rental. Similarly, a lot of young people do not dare to start borrowing, they do not know where they will settle in the long term, they do not dare to hire the CSOK, they are looking for a sublet, more precisely: they would be looking if their salary allowed the payment of these irresistible amounts. However, in many cases they cannot do so. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what steps the government is taking to help these social groups. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As you said, economic conditions in Hungary have changed. In 2010, unemployment was still 12 percent, and now it is below 4 percent. In 2010, we were still talking about unemployment, and now we are talking about labour shortages in 2018. This is how much the economic environment has changed in Hungary. This has many positive effects, such as the rise in incomes and wages, such as the fact that emigration is significantly smaller, slower, and even the reverse flow has basically started. Unfortunately, this has also shown negative effects, and it is very difficult to meet the need for housing from the point of view of labour mobility. Housing is influenced by the market, demand and supply, so the government has no direct direct influence. Obviously, this has been recognised by the government, so I would like to highlight the following measures. One is that we have increased the amount of tax-free housing allowance, so that the employer can give to his employee to earn rent and pay for it. That's 82,800 forints. The health contribution for renting a flat has been abolished to increase supply. There are further incentives for the establishment and maintenance of working accommodations in terms of corporate tax deduction. For the second time on January 5th, we launched a tender for the construction of working accommodations of HUF 5 billion, and several municipalities applied for it. In 2017, the government was able to support the construction of four working quarters, and if I may, I would like to continue to classify the measures in one minute. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Farkas. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-96	Thank you for the floor. At first, Mr Secretary of State said that the government had no effect, and then you admitted that there was, and started to mention, some measures. At the same time, they have been sweet in the current situation and should be much more and much faster. You also know the very simple economic item that if supply is increased, it will lead to a decrease in prices. Yes, if colleges were to be built faster, it would help young people. For example, it could be a government intervention, as an example of Berlin, to set a ceiling for rent prices. Berlin is the capital of a free market country, and they dared to do so. But to give another example: I am bringing up one of Jobbik's old programming points, which would also help expand supply, building a social housing system would be a great help both for young families who are about to start their lives and for those who move to other cities because of further education. This should have been done by the government a long time ago, and I regret that they have not done so, but I trust that they will do so as soon as possible to help these social groups. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I continue with the fact that there is HUF 3.7 billion in the budget of higher education institutions for the maintenance of colleges, even more HUF 3.8 billion in housing support, and 230 million in support of student homes and colleges not belonging to higher education institutions. Yes, the government is paying attention to increasing the number of dormitory seats in higher education institutions, making it easier for students to be in college. A national strategy for higher education and college development has been completed, resulting in a total capacity increase of 48 018 places. And it must be mentioned, although you forbade the possibility of a CSOK home creation grant, which will lead to a significant expansion, and in the case of students with student loans, the state will take over the repayment, i.e. cancel it under certain conditions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister, without a wallet for managing national assets, an immediate question:. The train is not waiting, but neither is the driver? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. [[For signal:]] I feel that our meta-communication will allow me to say that Congresswoman accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Ildikó Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's so important that we don't wait for the Minister to answer, and I accept that Mr. Secretary of State will give us an answer. Last year they were 3.5 years late in total if we count trains on the Hungarian railway. But it also needs to be made clear that the number of delays in any given delay does not include the number of delays in less than 6 minutes. Anyone who uses railway equipment every day knows very well that the quality of the railway has not improved, no matter how much investment has been made in the past period, but perhaps we passengers will slip into the system because we accept what we get. We can't do anything: we accept that we arrive late on a daily basis, or we count that we leave an hour early, we leave for work on the previous flight, because we accept that trains are delayed. Secretary of State, we have seen many things who travel by train, we have heard many things, but what happened this weekend: the train stopped at Füzesabony, because the driver's working time had expired and the train had to be stopped, so he arrived several hours late for the journey. [[16.00]] I think he's produced something that we could almost only produce in movies. I would add that it is legitimate that when a person's working time expires, he should not endanger people's lives, for example, because he is tired, but Mr. Secretary of State, the XXI. In the 20th century, you will tell me how much improvements have been made in the past and how everything is okay, how can it happen, how can a train stop on an open track, because they cannot provide a workforce, there is no substitute for the driver? I think that such a thing could no longer happen in Hungary today. They will cause this more often than the Hungarian State Railways [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Should we get used to it, Mr. Secretary, or are we just talking about an individual case? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-11-101	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-102	[[No microphones.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Why did this happen? That's because the wire broke. The pipeline breaks down all over the world in this heat; this, where the railway goes, happens. You have been watching the history of the Hungarian railway as a passenger for years, so I am sorry that you are above such bombastic news articles. Here's what happened: the line was broken, the train was late, so we apologize to the passengers from here too. The driver transferred the 560 train to Nyíregyháza, where his 12 hours of work had expired, including the 45-minute inter-work break. According to the Rail Transport Act, 10 hours of possible working time used 9 hours and 46 minutes. As he was told, he reported this to his supervisor, saying that he was tired, that his work hours were over, that he wanted a change. The detachment driver, who was supposed to replace him at Miskolc-Tiszai station in his traffic location, arrived on the opposite train, otherwise IC 517 at 10:16 p.m. The train therefore stood for 22 minutes for this reason, for which I once again thanked the passengers for their patience, and I apologize for that, but the driver and the Hungarian railway have acted as they should in such a situation. They complied with the rules on passenger safety and acted accordingly. By the way, the driver did not leave the locomotive, provided the power supply, and waited for the driver to replace him, so thank you to the drivers, and thank you if you do not sit up for such articles in the future. [[He's showing me a newspaper.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-104	As an experienced passenger, Mr. Secretary of State, well, it's not bombastic news that the overhead line is breaking down on one of the railway lines, it can happen several times a week on the line where I walk, in relation to Budapest-Kaba. Neither is the bombastic news that we are really sitting on flights counting that 15-minute, half-hour, one-hour delay, because if I'm just looking at the journey time, I'm sure I'll never make it exactly where I'm going; we'll count it from the start. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is that we can't even blame the overhead line break when it's hot, because at the Hungarian State Railways, when it's hot, when it's cold, when the wind blows, when it rains, it doesn't matter what weather it is, something happens all the time. I agree that if you are more tired and your working time is over, you know, Mr State Secretary, the biggest problem is that there is a shortage of workers already on State Railways, and they have not been able to deal with this shortage of workers for years. Anyone who travels on the line and talks to the railroads knows very well [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the impossible conditions under which you have to do your job, and you have been doing nothing about it for years, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-11-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr János Fónagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-106	Thank you very much. The remarks made by Congresswoman give me the opportunity to inform the general public here that last year we made more than 30 percent wage development in the framework of a three-year wage agreement at the railway, so the Hungarian Government is doing what can be done. By the way, yes, as you said, a railway line, if it's cold, it's hot, it's dangerous to break down; it's happening all over the world. I continue to say that this happens on a network of 7,600 kilometers and thousands of kilometers of overhead lines. Otherwise, the delay indicators of the Hungarian railway have improved; the fact that it is not perfect is true for you. Since you're always getting on a train that's late, I have to ask you, is it possible it's not the railroad, it's you? Thank you very much. [[Defiance. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I didn't think it was my fault.]]
u2018-06-11-107	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're in the hour of immediate questioning. Ms Ágnes Vadai, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Kaspersky Lab" Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask whether you accept the person who is responding.
u2018-06-11-108	I'll settle with Mr. Secretary of State, but I'll do it whenever it's with the Minister.
u2018-06-11-109	Congresswoman says she'll take it. Then Congresswoman Agnes Vadai will take the floor. Now it's yours.
u2018-06-11-110	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, You may not know the text of this speech either, but perhaps the Russians do, because I have stored the draft and the thoughts on the computer on which the Parliamentary Office installed the Kaspersky Lab virus exterminator. This is the company, you know, Secretary of State, which both American and Israeli intelligence have accused of spying. The Russians aren't in the pantry anymore, they're on our computers, on your computers, on government computers, on the Members of Parliament's computer, and who knows where else. Although Kaspersky doesn't have much choice, Russian law requires cooperation with Russian secret services. This, of course, has their routine, as the company's owner used to work for Russian intelligence. Of course, there are governments that have given a hard answer to the espionage charge and spying activity. As early as last September, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security forbade the U.S. government's computers to use the company's antivirus. Since then, the Dutch Government has also announced that the use of Kaspersky Lab software will be terminated in offices, in the Dutch Government Offices, due to national security risk. We have this national security risk in government contracts. You decided not to want the Russians in the pantry, invited them in and put them in the living room. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: If I remember correctly, he was in Gyurcsány's living room.]] Orbán himself didn't think that the Russkies would go home 30 years ago either! It will mean in his world that the Russians will go home. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State how long we will be tied to the Kremlin and whether it is possible for the government to terminate a contract with Kaspersky Lab, so that the term "national security" should not be a serious and cynical expression due to your activities in Hungary, 2018. Thank you.
u2018-06-11-111	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In order to protect cyberspace, government systems should aim to ensure the reliability, integrity and accessibility of data stored on computers and to ensure that they are not exposed to viruses. This can only be achieved if several antivirals are used independently from each other in the systems concerned, thus avoiding infection even if the programmer himself leaves a loophole. In the central government data centre, servers are protected by a variety of viruses, so there will be no loopholes even for producers, honourable Member. The result of this work is that although several attempts have been made against Hungary, none of them have been successful. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Yes, you can.]] And they've all been averted. The National Cyber Protection Institute and the National Infocommunications Service Ltd. also continuously monitor network communication to prevent possible data loss. [[16.10]] In recent years, no data loss has been detected by the National Cyber Protection Institute. 1139/2013 on Hungary's National Cyber Security Strategy currently in force. According to a government decision, the guarantee of the freedom and security of cyberspace in Hungary is achieved through close cooperation and coordinated activities based on the shared responsibility of government, science, economic and civil sectors. Therefore, a model of cyberspace protection based on cooperation and shared responsibility will be implemented effectively in Hungary, honourable Member. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-113	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder for Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-114	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, There was a slight applause here, and the Russians must have applauded very hard. That's the answer they were looking for. We also thought that this would be the answer, because it would have been the real, fair professional response to you canceling the contract with Kaspersky Lab, but obviously you don't, because Putin and the Russians won't let you do it. You are using them to sell Hungary. Allow me to warn you that what you said about cyber security was very beautiful, but I would like to remind you that there is a ministry that sensed this danger and removed Kaspersky Labe from every computer in the Ministry six months ago, because they understood that there are secret services, and this includes not only the Russian, but also all other secret services, who are not allowed in the pantry, in the living room, in the computers or anywhere, because it is your job to keep these secret services away from Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's not what they're doing right now, leaving the door open, obviously, because it's in their political interest. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-06-11-115	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-116	When I think back to what happened ten years ago, I have to say that you let the Russians into the National Security Service. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true! That's not true!]] You let him in. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true!]] criminal proceedings are also ongoing. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Your lawsuit just failed! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You took government responsibility at the time, I understand you were the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, and that's right, Congresswoman, you let the Russians into the pantry or the house. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Where?]] We locked the door, you know, Congresswoman? ! [[Dr. László György Lukács: After you come in and host them!]] Security is the most important community value, and Hungary is a safe country in all aspects, as well as a safe country in terms of cyber security. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They're attacking a government website, the Ministry of Defence!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council! I'm asking you to listen to me, I've listened to you, I respect you as a woman, but I want you to listen to me. Once again, in Hungary, all Hungarian authorities, secret services and other bodies work in the interest of the Hungarian nation, unlike in your country, when you let the Russians in, you allowed the Russians into the National Security Office. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Who? Where?]] Unfortunately, this happened. We locked the doors. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Madam Member, we represent the interests of Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: A judgment of the law! Dr. László György Lukács: They should have been removed!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Members of László Lóránt Keresztes, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, I think I should ask you, Congressman László Keresztes, whether you will accept the person of the respondents or whether you are personally expecting an answer from Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We'd like to wait for Prime Minister to answer.
u2018-06-11-119	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer the question at the hour of the second immediate question. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:.. How can Zaid Naffa still be an honorary consul in Hungary today? It's an address. Minister of State has appointed Minister Levente Magyar to respond to the urgent public task. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person to whom she is responding, so it is up to Mrs Márta Demeter. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-120	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Zaid Naffa is still an honorary consul of Jordan here in Hungary, and he does this, despite the fact that he was the one who assisted Ghaith Pharaon, an international criminal also wanted to finance terrorism, in cooperation with the Hungarian authorities, so that he can come to Hungary, do business with Viktor Orbán and his family. He is the honorary consul who constantly served in the Prime Minister's neighbourhood, whose family members Zsolt Semjén gave citizenship, and he is constantly showing up with János Áder, so it seems to be extremely important, especially from a business point of view, to Hungarian governmental actors. This honorary consul, Zaid Naffa, was the one who failed the screening of the Counter-Terrorism Center, the CTU did this due diligence in its professional capacity, and, by the way, carried out terrorist risk analysis, thus demonstrating that Zaid Naffa is a national security risk, the one who is Viktor Orbán's favorite Arab businessman. You have mentioned many times that you cannot call him back, you cannot deprive him of his honorary consular post, because you do not have the opportunity to do so. That's a bloody lie. In the beginning, the first Orbán government has requested that Zaid Naffa be an honorary consul in Hungary, and the other is that you can proceed at any time under Article 23 of the Vienna Convention, according to which you can declare Zaid Naffa a persona non-grata, so you can indicate that it is not acceptable for Hungary. Without justification, you could do that at any time. They didn't do that even though, I repeat, Zaid Naffa failed the National Security Review. So my question remains, and I expect a straight answer, Mr Secretary of State - when Zaid Naffa is classified as a persona non-grata, when will you finally tell Jordan that this man is not acceptable to you. They can do this at any time without justification. Thank you.
u2018-06-11-121	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Levente Magyar answers the question. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-122	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Perhaps a year ago, Istova, the dialogue that we have had with the Member on this subject has been taking place, and it has been printed orally and in writing. Therefore, in addition to trying to give a meaningful answer, honourable Member, I hope that our correspondence on this subject will continue. It would be a shame if you got off the agenda, because now it's almost a daily routine, that the same answer we can't really tell you is going to be sent to you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to read a few lines, because I want to be quite precise in order to accurately record the facts. So once again, I would like to say that the procedure for the appointment of honorary consuls accredited to the host country begins by sending the oral list addressed by the sending State to the host country. It is important to clarify this, and it is important to come back to this moment again and again because we are regularly accused by the opposition of initiating the appointment of honorary consuls in Hungary with whom they believe there is a problem. So Hungary does not initiate it, Hungary is the host state, so it approves it. The marking shall be the exclusive right of the external country. This was also the case with the Honorary Consul of Jordan in Hungary, whose nomination was informed on 8 January 2003 by the Embassy of Jordan in Vienna to the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also requested Hungary's consent to his appointment, which was granted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on 5 September 2003. I would like to inform the honourable Member that the institutions responsible for the activities of the Honorary Consul have not yet indicated any risk. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-123	I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-124	Secretary of State, it is now quite clear that they would rather make fools of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and make fools of the Hungarian state, in essence, just to protect the man the TEK has said is a threat to Hungary's security, and do so by hearing from you every day all kinds of communication panels fighting terrorism. Well, we're talking about a man who failed national security clearance in a terrorist-based risk analysis procedure. I don't know why Zaid Naffa is so valuable to you, I'm sure you can do the Hungarian government a lot of favors. You really can't sweep that under the rug now. Tell me if they're moving. I'm sure you're familiar with Article 23 of the Vienna Convention, by the way. By the way, in 2016, TEK gave a very clear opinion, so it doesn't matter that whatever this man did in his honorary consular capacity, or didn't, is a threat to the country's security, he can't fill this post. Question: do you stand up for the country's security, Mr. Secretary? [[16.20]]
u2018-06-11-125	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-126	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You have challenged the activities of a Jordanian honorary consul who has been dead here for over a year. I think, Congresswoman, that this is at least unethical. I would ask you to refrain in the future, along with your fellow opposition Members, from bringing dead people here to the public. I think that we have been over this matter a long time ago, that Hungary has not suffered any damage from this case. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received no indication that there has been a risk of national security in relation to Zaid Naffa's honorary consular activities in Hungary. In this sense, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not intend to take action on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-11-127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Aren't you at least a little ashamed? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you, Congressman, do you accept the person you are responding to or wait for...
u2018-06-11-128	I'm very happy to accept it. Thank you.
u2018-06-11-129	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-130	Dear Parliament, Last week, it has been repeatedly proven that there is no band of thieves in the European Union as large as the Orbán regime. The report by the European Anti-Fraud Office for 2013-2017 shows that 4 percent of the subsidies granted to Hungary should be withdrawn. In comparison, this figure is twice the size of Slovakia's second worst result and is more than nine times the EU average. Let's taste it a little bit: in corruption, the Orbán regime performs at 912 percent. But not only did the Anti-Fraud Office find that the Fidesz and its countryside are stealing money in Hungary. Last year, the European Commission examined the institutional system, and now in their draft report it is said that the national public procurement system for EU-funded projects, in particular with regard to control, has tested almost inadequate. Public money pumps such as the reconstruction of metro line 3, which increased from 69 billion to HUF 60 billion , the development of Szántód-Kőröshegy-Balatonszentgyörgy and the Fonyód-Kaposvár railway, which became 72 billion forints instead of 55, or the Kelenföld-Százhalombatt railway modernisation, which cost 51 billion forints instead of 31. The entire institutional system was graded 3 on the four-stage scale, where 1 is the best grade. This means that, with big mistakes, the system is just working. There have been so many irregularities that a flat-rate 10% repayment obligation has been proposed for each project. In other words, this means that Hungarian taxpayers will be poorer by HUF 100-150 billion because of the system that ensures the smooth operation of fidesz thieves. Each Hungarian citizen pays a penalty of 10-15 thousand forints because you cannot stop stealing. I'll ask the Secretary of State if they're at least a little embarrassed. Thank you.
u2018-06-11-131	I do not thank you, Mr President, for your speech, because if you had said one person in recent times who would have been convicted of theft in Hungary, then all this outburst you are saying would be justified. [[Lajos Korózs: That doesn't mean he's not guilty because he's not convicted!]] Congressman, I didn't ask you. When I give you the floor, you'll have the opportunity to comment, but for now, I'm in charge of the meeting, and I, as the head of the meeting, consider that this was a disenfranchised comment. Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary.
u2018-06-11-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I believe that, based on his recent speeches, who should be ashamed of himself, you, as if you didn't know where he was, sometimes put it that way and expressed it that way. Of course, I would also like to answer your question in substance. In particular, it has put in place a draft report which is still under investigation. But if you wanted to be consistent and didn't come here with a political line of thought, but actually tried to analyze the problem and went back, let's say, to build subway 4, in that case you would have brought it here and asked how the case was... the case that was almost completely proven to have been very serious abuses during the socialist-liberal government at that time. With regard to very serious abuses in cooperation with the then capital leadership, it seems that in the next period the country will have a repayment obligation, precisely because at that time similar events or demonstrable events took place, which you have now expressed as an assumption and suggestion. I believe that the answer to the question in the title is, moreover, that, after the country is developing and we are constantly able to produce results, step by step results, both in terms of investment, unemployment, training and health care, and I therefore reject the suggestion expressed on this issue. I'm asking you to be consistent and talk about the abuses that have already been proven to be abuse, and not to make claims that are not yet under investigation, or in the process of investigation, and that there are only assumptions. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-11-133	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-134	Thank you. I would like to respond at the same time to President and Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-135	Congressman, before you go any further, you have no opportunity to answer me. [[Bence of Tordai: Then only to the Secretary of State.]] If you don't like my driving style, you can use the house rules to prosecute me. Here, do it, but between us, we can't have a separate discussion on your part. Here you go. [[Bence of Turdai: I understand.]] I'd like the clock to be adjusted to the congressman.
u2018-06-11-136	Just because Peter Polt doesn't convict a Fidesz criminal doesn't mean there are no Fidesz criminals in this country. If all international and domestic corruption research organisations find that the level of corruption is unprecedented, that they are stealing the country and that the Fidesz regime is basically building its policy around it, then let me be realistic enough to say it here in Parliament. If I understand the Secretary of State's answer correctly, did you say that since the country is developing, they can steal in peace? That's basically how I'd sum up your answer. I am afraid that we cannot accept this, nor can the Hungarian and European taxpayers, whose money is being stolen. And, yes, I am speaking politically, the aim is not to do this without any reflection, without perfect punishment. We won't let them take hundreds and thousands of billions of dollars from our common register every month and every year. This will still not be acceptable, and, yes, you should be ashamed.
u2018-06-11-137	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't help it if the congressman has a text understanding problem. I didn't say what you said. The problem, Congressman, is that you're taking the law to yourself and to certain organisations, so to speak, instead of the court. Judgments may be given in Hungary, but also in other countries, by the courts empowered to do so. So the fact that you're making up something or something about something is not a judgment, it's just an assumption. The fact that there are assumptions in a drafted report does not mean that it did so. They suspect something, but whether it is in reality, as they have said, is another question. Only recently, a number of questions and wordings have been published from you or from non-governmental agencies, attacking the government, which have been proven to be not in the real world. So I ask you, when you make a question or make a statement, to be aware of the facts and to be based on the facts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-11-139	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How long can the left continue to try to circumvent the law? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. With all due respect, I'm not asking, because I can see your nod to accept your response. Mr László Salacz has the floor. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2018-06-11-140	Dear Secretary of State, As is known, the U.S.P. and its satellite parties are not far from unfair political struggle, i.e. the financing of their parties by illegal means. According to the suspicion, Csaba Czeglédy, MSZP and DK's home cashier, charged with billions of tax fraud in advance, financed the campaign and other party activities of MSZP and DK and certain false independent candidates from the money generated by the crime. In order to gain power, it is not expensive for left-wing parties to shorten young people, pensioners and the Hungarian state itself. Dear Secretary of State, More recently, a document involving the suspicion of new illicit party financing has come to light. The recently resigned president of the MSZP, his current Member of Parliament, member of the MSZP faction, and Gergely Christmas, co-president of the dialogue with party faction, as well as the Liberals signed an agreement on the granting of HUF 60 million for their electoral cooperation to the non-social Anettes of Bősz. Since the current legislation does not allow any organisation to make a financial contribution to a party, the question is raised, not for the first time, whether the MSZP-Palogue intended to make a disguised party financing out of the public money paid by taxpayers. The present case also shows that left-wing parties are not held together by anything else, no noble principle is considered, the only link between them is the hunger for money, the acquisition of power at all costs. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State how much longer the left can try to circumvent the law. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Don't give a final judgment, just an opinion!]] Dear fellow Member, Indeed, the left seems to be crawling with corruption scandals. I would like to remind you of the fact that Csaba Czeglédy and his associates were investigated by the NAV in a criminal organisation, in a commercial manner, for the crime of fiscal fraud, which is particularly detrimental to property, and for the commission of other crimes. According to suspicion, the criminal organisation linked to Csaba Czeglédy, DK and MSZP's domestic lawyer, has caused a financial disadvantage of approximately HUF billions to the state budget. The government and Fidesz also considered it the most important in relation to the Czeglédy case to compensate the victims of the case, given the vulnerable situation of the injured. The Fidesz-KDNP Group submitted a parliamentary resolution proposal asking the Hungarian Government to pay compensation based on fairness. This was accepted on 14 November 2017 and opened the way for the fastest possible settlement of damages for victims, students and pensioners. However, this settlement of claims should not result in compensation being exempted from the payment of compensation. I am very sorry that Congressman Bence Tordai has left the room, because according to an agreement recently leaked by the press, Gyula Molnár and Gábor Fodor have indeed agreed to support the Liberals by HUF 60 million between 2018 and 2022. I note that the agreement was signed by Gergely Christmas. The inconvenience of the case is increased by the fact that the suspicion of illicit party funding may arise again, because the question arises of how the Socialists, together with Gergely Christmas, can make a financial contribution of 60 million without it being considered as prohibited party funding. According to the Act on the Functioning and Management of Parties, a legal person, an entity without legal personality, may not make any financial contribution, the Party may not accept any financial contribution from a legal person or entity without legal personality. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-143	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Salacz has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2018-06-11-144	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. The scandal surrounding the 60 million HUF grant to Liberals is particularly unpleasant for the socialists and Gergely Christmas because it raises strong suspicion of illicit party funding. I am convinced that the voters can see precisely that the left continues to do its work by circumventing the legislation, and that this clan seems to be able to hold further surprises for the country and for us. I wonder how much longer the skeletons left by the socialists will fall out of the closet. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Overall, it can be said, as in the case at hand, in the Czeglédy case, that the shadow of illicit party financing is cast on both the left and Gergely Christmas, because in the other case, which I mentioned, it is also unclear how this was tried to legalize, or how the law on the management of parties would have allowed this to be done in a legal form. If it was a trick, it was also a nice maneuver, of course, so this should also be appreciated politically. [[Defiance.]] I am very sorry to say once again that Congressman Bence Tordai is not in the Chamber, because I think he should also have a talk with the leader of the group, Gregory Christmas. If these questions were clarified, they might have more moral grounds to ask other questions in Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When should we finally estimate a fair remuneration for those who care for sick family members at home? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You'll take it, thank you very much. Congresswoman Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Most of us here in this House are very lucky because we do not have to care for a disabled family member. However, there are 400,000 families in our country who are not so fortunate. I believe that today's speech by my fellow Member Erik Bánki, in which he discussed the performance of the economy, is precisely the basis for the proposal and request we would like to make to the government and, in particular, to the Minister of Human Resources on this issue. The Fundamental Law on Freedom and Responsibility is set out in Annex XV to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In this article, he said that Hungary is protecting people with disabilities. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. Article 1 states that Hungary is seeking to ensure social security for all its citizens. Paragraph 3 provides that the extent of social measures must be determined by the person making use of the social measure in accordance with the activities of the community. These are wonderful principles of the Fundamental Law of Fidesz. If our economy is really this strong, what we have heard today, then it is time for these people who cannot work, because it requires a full man to care for our fellow countryman with disabilities, so that they do not have to take their family members to an institution, it should be that those who have not yet reached the retirement age, but care for their family members in this activity, pay the average wage, and those who have already completed the retirement age and are receiving a pension, the budget should complement this option to the average wage. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, that if our economy is so strong, it is not possible that we will do between HUF 28,000 and HUF 50,000 for our fellow countrymen, who will perform this task of sacrifice. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-149	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-150	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I am pleased that you are so committed, Congresswoman, on this issue. I ask you to convince your fellow Members in the next vote when it is necessary to vote in favour of having the courage to vote in favour of such proposals. When the budget has provided additional resources for this, I am going to explain to you what increases, on any occasion, you have not been supported by your fellow Members, from Jobbik or from any other faction of the opposition pathologist. It was important for the government to have the opportunity to increase the care fee to some extent in the economy, as we know that those who care for their relatives cannot do 8 hours of work, cannot act from home, must be there for their family, most of all, especially for their children. That is why it is important for the care fee to affect as much of the lost wages as possible. Before 2010, you know, the rate of care is stuck, it hasn't increased for years. We have tried to ensure growth in all areas. Therefore, we raised the basic care fee from HUF 28 500 to HUF 32 600 and the increased care fee from HUF 37 050 to HUF 44 250. [[16.40]] We have introduced a new category, which was not previously the priority care fee. This has been introduced in recent years through the rising result of the economy. The sum of this is now HUF 58 680. This means that those who care for a more seriously injured relative will receive HUF 58 680 instead of HUF 37 050. This means that his income has increased by 63 percent in recent years. It is also important that he is entitled to health care during the period of care and these years should be considered as periods of service. I would like to present further progress in the remaining minute. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-06-11-151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will address you to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-152	Dear Secretary of State, If I had been here in this Chamber when we voted on such sums, I would not have voted either, for one reason: I would not have humiliated my fellow countrymen with such sums. What you're talking about is a significant part of one-third or half of the minimum living. In this House, we must talk about the fact that our fellow countrymen, who have sent us here to represent them in full, must be told that wherever they are from, we will be looking for the source that if a family member actually performs these tasks full-time, even 24 hours, the average wage is due. And I'm going to tell you, Mr. Secretary, and I'm going to tell the House that I'm going to talk about this every two weeks if I have to. I know a lot of these families, my heart squeezes on the infinite low standard of living caused by the fact that they don't want to take their sick family members to institutions, because they want them to nurse them and help them rehab. That is why I am speaking, and the performance of the economy provides the basis for this. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-06-11-153	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In the polls, we'll see that indeed, what you're saying is agreed with all the good people. Let's say it's a 63-percent raise that doesn't mean everyone agrees. You say it's not noticeable, it's a 63 percent increase. [[György Szilágyi: 58 thousand HUF!]] [[György Szilágyi: 58 thousand HUF!]] I think this 63 percent is a pretty big raise you can already see. (György Szilágyi: 58 thousand HUF! ) It is natural for the government to want to increase this further. If we had accepted your economic policy proposals since 2010, there would have been no cover for this 63 percent increase. If we had accepted the economic proposals of the other opposition parties, we would also not have an economic opportunity to do so. Now I do. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: the 8th commandment...]] but not only for this, but also for those who have been caring for their own child for twenty years in their own household, they are now receiving a pension supplement of HUF 50,000, precisely because obviously, as they could not do a full job, and therefore their pension would be lower, we would also like to compensate in the pension if someone cared for their own child in their own household. That's 50,000 forints a month. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from Jobbik: There was no applause!]]
u2018-06-11-155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Dr. András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Dr. András Aradski's signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Dr. András Aradski has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-156	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Christian Democratic People's Party stands for any initiative to strengthen and support the smallest unit of social coexistence, the family. 2018 is the year of families, which also means that the government pays more attention to families than ever before. The family support system developed by the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010 consists of several parts, one of the important elements of which is the free feeding of children. Within days, the summer vacation will begin, which will bring an extraordinary joy to some 1.5 million children in primary and secondary school. Thanks to government efforts, for the third year there has been a holiday meal not only during the summer but also during the four school holidays, so parents of children in need can apply for a free meal. Last year, more settlements than ever have been provided in kind during the summer holidays for children's meals throughout the country. Over 130,000 children received warm food daily during the longest school vacation. I am asking how the government's goals in the area of free children's meals have been achieved. Thank you.
u2018-06-11-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's objective was that if a settlement announces its demand that there are children in its settlement whose vacation meals can't be solved by their families during any holiday break, spring, autumn, winter or summer, then we must ensure that all municipalities can carry out this task from the central budget instead of the family. And for years now, we can say that there is no tender, no municipality that goes to the government for support, conditions exist and does not get it. In Hungarian, because of a lack of resources, we have never refused a single application in recent years. This is how we can say that 2333 settlements have now been included in the social food system, and everyone who needs it will receive support, precisely so that children will receive the necessary quantity and quality of food. In fact, we can say here that during the summer break they also received a rather significant increase from 350 forints to 550 forints, precisely in order to be able to buy the right quality raw material, and by increasing the one-day lot, the raw materials should be of the highest quality, so these children can also receive quality food. As you pointed out, a few years ago, let's say, in 2010, it was only during the summer break, but now it is also during inter-annual breaks, spring, autumn and winter. During the summer break last year, a total of 133,000 children were claimed; at spring break, 95 thousand children, at autumn break, after 104 thousand children, and at winter break, after 113 thousand children. The reason why we can provide wider support than ever before is because the budget lines are much more generous than ever before in Hungary. While in 2010 there was HUF 29 billion in the Finance Act, this year there is HUF 79 billion. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-06-11-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr András Aradszki is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. I would like to underline in addition to these figures that today Hungary is spending twice the OECD average on support for families in proportion to its GDP. So in this triple-aid scheme, part of which is free food for children, it is an important element that we are able to do this. Thanks to the economic policy of the last eight years, the Hungarian economy provides the Hungarian budget with the funds that provide children with a more difficult fate. I must add that this system, applied by the Hungarian government, is extremely liberal, so it does not require too much bureaucracy, it does not require a lot of administration, but it is provided in any way to those in actual need, and it is possible to apply for these services on the basis of voluntary registration. Thank you for your reply.
u2018-06-11-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-162	Thank you very much. I think there is a complete consensus among all reasonable people that this is one of the best forms of support, because children get it in nature, families get it in nature, so it must reach and reach those for whom it is intended from the budget. It is also important that more and more people can benefit from this. If you look at how many people eat for free and discount, you can see that this is now 626 777 people in this school year, which means that a wider circle is eligible. We have done this because we believe that this is not only, in fact, a social benefit, but also a part of a family support system, not only for those who are in a very difficult social situation, but also for more and more people who are having children. Especially on the basis of the new system introduced in the kindergarten age group, the top is one, up to two income tenths, for whom it is not due, on the basis of voluntary data, but everyone else is entitled, because we would like every family to expect that the children who have children will not have to be used for children's textbooks or, in the majority of cases, for their meals later, because they will be covered by the state. Thank you very much. [[16.50]]
u2018-06-11-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 50 minutes, which brings us to the end of Question Time. It is now possible to make a point of order. On a case-by-case basis, Congressman Péter Ungár asked for the floor. Congressman, according to the house rules, a minute is a point of order and a minute is a reason for that. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Here, looking at the House Rule of Decision, I have noticed that, without any criticism, you must endeavour to conduct the meeting impartially and to determine whether they are facts or not, you are not entitled to it when Mr Tordai spoke, nor when Mr Salacz spoke. So I would like to ask with deep respect that you continue to respond to this. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-11-165	I'm trying, Congressman. I'm trying. It is my great pleasure that you knew that any criticism of me as the chair of the meeting could be made in the form of a point of order. This has made your speech extremely positive for me. Thank you. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for questions. Member Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior:. It is hot again in Dunaújváros. If there is trouble, can the state help the multitude of people in distress in Dunaújváros? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Pintér has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I wanted to start this cycle with a positive speech, but unfortunately there is a problem again in Dunaújváros. I would like to talk to you about Csaba Pomazi, the fidesz oligarch, who is notorious among the Dunaújváros. They know that they owe it to him that during the winter cold periods, radiators are often cold and there is no hot water in their homes. They also know that in the hope of financial gain, he can blackmail the Dunaújváros for his pleasure. I note quietly that he has so far done this by assisting Lajos Dorkota, Chairman of the Fidesz constituency, Head of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. Now, however, another step in the direction of Dunaújváros and the general meeting has been taken by the company's network to acquire ownership over the six gas engines worth 2.6 billion, saying that it has not notified the sub-owner's municipality. Although this claim was also made today, since they knew about the sale of this since 2013. In addition, these turbines were paid for by the city, which almost bankrupted the municipality, and only debt consolidation saved them from this. In the present situation, the new owner is Energott Kft., where the owner is Csaba Pomázi and the Water, Channel and Heat Provider of Dunaújváros, where management rights are also exercised by Csaba Pomázi through its companies. Of course, they also paid attention to the details: Energet paid HUF 1.3 billion, DVCSH paid HUF 1.3 billion for gas engines, but only on paper, because there was no proven cash flow. These gas engines, on the other hand, should serve families, elderly and children in Dunaújváros, and should not be filling the pockets of an oligarch, but thereby endangering the water and heating supply of Dunaújváros. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether it is normal for a reputable Fidesz State Secretary... or an oligarch to play with public wealth, thereby endangering the water and heating supply of the inhabitants of a county-righted city. If there will be a problem during the winter period, can they help the residents, and if so, how? Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-167	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, He had his first speech, and he still had a little problem in keeping with the time frame, but I naturally allowed him to finish what he had to say. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds.
u2018-06-11-168	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The title of the question is whether the Dunaújváros can count on the government to help if necessary. Of course, you can count on it if it really becomes necessary. The government has supported the municipalities both in operation and in development and in the course of the loan transfer with significant amounts, and we have sought to ensure that the operation of the municipality is stable and secure. During the reductions, the other great effort was to give every Hungarian citizen access to the public services related to his life at the lowest possible cost. This is the case with fixed line services, and so is the case now, when people receiving district heating can receive support in the context of the reduction in winter rents. The Dunaújváros issue you raised. First of all, it was obviously a slip of the tongue, or I don't know what kind of Fidesz Secretary of State he meant about the district heating service in Dunaújváros; the term, by itself, was probably a slip of the tongue, because if he had looked deeper, he would know very well that he was a business partner of your party's buyer. So if you want to look inside the oligarchs, you're gonna have to play around your own house and ask around. Otherwise, the heating problems in Dunaújváros started when the Duna Vasmű was sold, after which the gas-powered heating system was purchased and built. The municipality of Dunaújváros is in more than 50 lawsuits with the gentleman and company you mentioned, and will do everything in its power to ensure district heating and heating in Dunaújváros. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] If this fails, the government will, of course, help. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-169	Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varga, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture what steps are being taken to reduce air pollution? It's an address. Dr. László Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The area around Sajó Valley and Miskolc has been struggling with very serious air pollution problems for a long time. In recent years, this situation has deteriorated significantly, and it is memorable that in February 2017, there were days when, for example, the concentration of particulate matter, PM10 concentrations exceeded the health limit by 700 percent. According to several articles and studies on the subject, the number of diseases due to poor air quality in the region is very high and, unfortunately, deaths can be associated with air quality in many cases. A lot of people in the county are trying to do something about it, but there hasn't been much outside help in recent years. For example, researchers from the University of Miskolc have developed a smogkény, which has already been successfully tested, and there is interest in it from abroad. The latest development on this issue is that the European Commission is bringing six Member States, including Hungary, to the European Court of Justice, through years of infringement proceedings for air pollution. In addition to particulate pollution, nitrogen dioxide pollution in Hungary is particularly worrying. Obviously, the Commission is trying to persuade Hungary to reduce emissions, and the government's actions are primarily expected here in the area of efficient modernisation of residential heating and displacement of the most polluting old diesel vehicles. It is therefore a question of what they intend to do to reduce air pollution in this situation. Secondly, how do you intend to support local innovative initiatives? For example, I referred to a project of researchers at the University of Miskolc. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Third, if billions are spent on various information campaigns, are there serious information campaigns planned on this issue, what action plan is being put in place to reduce air pollution? Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2018-06-11-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, responds to the question expressed by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-172	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! The government's primary objective is to improve the health of the population and to reduce the factors that cause people's diseases to this end. Significant steps have already been taken to reduce the effects of air pollution in recent years and the situation has improved in many areas. [[17.00]] In addition to the tightening environmental regulation, we launched the air quality improvement emission reduction programme in 2011, using HUF 160 billion in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors. One of the largest and best means of reducing emissions of particulate matter in the public sector is to improve the energy efficiency of buildings through thermal insulation and the modernisation of heating systems. As a result of its support system, more than 400 thousand households have invested in reducing emissions since 2010. In addition to the regulatory and support programmes, the government places particular emphasis on information and awareness-raising. Although we have surveyed that a significant number of citizens know the initiative, it seems that Congressman has missed the fact that the "Heating" has already been launched smartly in 2011. A program, a campaign. In addition to presenting the environmental and health impacts of air pollution, we draw the attention of the public to the role of the individual, the importance and efficiency of responsibility. I would like to inform the Member that a new national air load reduction programme is currently being developed to limit emissions of all relevant pollutants. The adoption of the new programme is planned for April 2019. The measures included in this measure are calculated to reduce environmental and health risks by more than 50 percent. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-11-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Why is the Government punishing Hódmezővásárhely? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-174	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is in Hungary's interest to have as many settlements as possible in the municipal elections next year, where democrats run the city, the village, the settlement, and not those who steal people's money, and not those who work only for the benefit of their own pockets. Therefore, particular attention must be paid to all settlements where, let's say, recent changes may have taken place, and also to what Fidesz, the reaction of power, is. Therefore, what happened in Hódmezővásárhely was particularly interesting. Since the victory of Péter Márki-Zay, the sub-notary has made an open political statement against the elected mayor. The deputy notary released by Márki-Zay was immediately appointed by the government to head the district government office, where it will cause many unpleasant moments for the mayor. In addition, the Fidesz majority transferred 900 million forints to the budget for the renovation of inland roads. In the past, while John Lazarus was the mayor there for 16 years, the inland roads were not so important. Then the Fidesz majority of the mayor's office withdrew from Péter Márki-Zay's opportunity to have a HUF 100 million transfer title and to act freely in this matter. I would like to ask whether the Hungarian authorities should expect this, especially with the local elections approaching, because something like this has happened before, that suddenly, let's say, the lights are not on on the streets, and then the trash is not being moved. So will this end in drying out, bleeding out the municipalities where there is an opposition mayor. Should Hungarians prepare for this before the municipal elections, which hopefully will break the current power of Fidesz next year? Thank you. [[In the notary seat Dr. László Varga replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2018-06-11-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs András, State Secretary, will give the answer to the question expressed by the Member. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-176	Mr. President! Dear Parliament, Congressman! Thank you very much for the floor. First, I would like to make it clear that the city of Hódmezővásárhely and the inhabitants of the settlement are the same winners of the government's policy as all Hungarian settlements. The Prime Minister's Office is at the forefront. This is why the State Secretariat responsible for Budapest and agglomeration was born as a separate department, and that is why the program "Modern Cities" was introduced here, and that is why we are launching the program "Modern villages." In the case of Hódmezővásárhely, the successful cooperation between the government, the regional parliamentary representative and the previous city administration meant to the city: 22.5 billion-dollar debt caused by the former municipal financing system, new fixed-track transport between Hódmezővásárhely and Szeged, development of an urban industrial park, expansion of agricultural training, installation of a solar power park, construction of outdoor bicycle roads, establishment of a library and a knowledge centre. In addition, the city's stable budget, the growth of the local economy, the reduction of unemployment and the strengthening of public security are, of course, the result. The government, the representative of Parliament in the region and the previous city administration have thus proven themselves on the basis of objective criteria. The voters have chosen a new city leader, and of course they have every right to do so, and the government is open to cooperation. At the same time, it is quite alarming that the city leader has been working with left-wing city leaders since then, leading an anti-government protest in Budapest, where the legitimacy of the elections has been questioned in an absurd way, and at the moment he is trying to create a national political case for his own good from a local case. In this regard, I must express my conflict with you, and we wish that the city will continue to have successful politicians such as former city leaders and those working for the region. The government wants good work for the mayor. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-11-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Members of the LMP, Ákos Hadházy and Péter Ungár, want to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: When will the government decide on CEU? It's an address. Honourable Members, Honourable Mr Péter Ungár, on behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will answer the question. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-11-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, On 13 April 2018, a multi-member delegation travelled to New York to see that CEU, or its sister institution, Bard College, is actually receiving training. At the time, it was claimed that this would be the basis for deciding what the future fate of the CEU would be. The Minister then said, in contrast, that the involvement of experts is still necessary to determine whether there is real training in the CEU. I asked all the members of the delegation earlier with a written question or request for data to find out what they saw when they were at Bard College. It didn't turn out to be, and it turns out they're gonna tell us about it later. But one thing is certain: from what was said earlier, they are not being observed, it is clear that they are only interested in stalling. We would not be surprised if, in future, even a ministerial commissioner was appointed to study CEU's education. Here is the situation: CEU has fulfilled all the conditions on the basis of a basically unconstitutional law. After all, they said that the CEU must comply with all laws that everyone else, all other higher education institutions, must comply with. On the other hand, you created these restrictive laws only after that, so you had to comply with laws that did not yet exist. Those who were there in New York, when did they report to the Ministry, or if they reported to the competent ministries, why have we not yet learned the result of this visit? My question is how much longer they will be stalling on the CEU, and what final deadline it will be for them to decide what they want to do with Hungary's best and most prestigious educational institution, which I am proud to say is my alma mater. Thank you.
u2018-06-11-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian Higher Education Act clearly states that it applies equally to all schools, so it also applies to the University of György Soros, CEU. The Higher Education Act, once again, is clear: in Hungary, a degree from another country can only be issued by a university that has qualified and registered educational activities in that country. CEU has so far failed to comply with this legal obligation. The Hungarian Higher Education Act does not impose unfulfilled conditions against foreign universities. This is supported by the fact that from the beginning the Malaysian and Chinese partners considered the case a technical issue and sought an agreement. This agreement has been successfully concluded. I would also like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that McDaniel College in Maryland is also in line with the rules, so we also have an agreement with Maryland. And this is a 150-year-old university with 3,000 students in Westminster. It is located in Maryland, and they have about a hundred students in Hungary, so it works in a similar way, as CEU could if it could comply with the legal requirements. [[17.10]] Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we are investigating the extent to which CEU's cooperation with Bard College extends as soon as possible, whether this is a real cooperation, whether CEU training is taking place in the United States; and once again, we are trying to establish this with certainty as soon as possible. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this is a long process, obviously requiring detailed information. This orientation has been partially carried out by the government and is partly ongoing. I can assure the Member that, as soon as we can be sure of the outcome of this information, we will inform not only you but also the public of the country. Please be patient about this. And once again, the CEU does not have to comply with any of those requirements. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which any other international university in a similar situation should not. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-11-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Do you plan to increase the care fee and recognise home care as an employment relationship? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Burány, please.
u2018-06-11-182	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Family members who care for their own family members at home are in a very difficult situation, we can agree on that. It would be essential for those affected to be able to purchase at least the goods necessary for minimum subsistence from the care fee. On the other hand, the amount of the care fee is extremely low. If you add that the premium is 150 per cent of the basic amount and 180 per cent of the primary care fee, this is just over 55 thousand forints per month gross, of which the state even charges 10 per cent health insurance. If you add the family allowance of 23 300 HUF since 2008, then in principle two people would have to make a living of just over 70,000 forints, including the highest allowance. Those who do not have help and are obliged to support their child and herself from such a higher amount of family allowance for a severely disabled child will eventually eventually have to submit their child to a boarding facility to be able to take a job. That can't be a goal. It is outrageous that parents do not decide for themselves the fate of their children in need of care, but the government forces them to be placed in a state institution, although there they spend far more money to care for children than they were willing to give to parents as a care fee. This is quite simply pointless and unfair! Moreover, this practice is contrary to the practices of all civilised countries, including, for example, Romania with a lower economic development than Hungary. In several neighbouring countries, I would just like to point out, Mr Secretary, that the work of nurses is recognised as a pension, paid leave and sickness benefit. We think we need to put an end to that inhuman and cruel situation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What we have to face now. Does the government, Mr Secretary of State, plan to adjust the basic amount of the care fee to the minimum wage and to recognise home care as an employment relationship? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-11-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government has not only set plans in this area, but has also taken action in recent years, precisely so that the work of those who care for their relatives at home 24 hours a day, most often their children, is really recognised. But before I do, allow me to draw your attention to the fact, honourable Member, that you have given this system a variety of indications, but you were the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, former Minister of Employment and Labour. [[Sándor Burány's constant interventions.]] He's a member of the government. If you found something so unfair that it was obviously a system with far smaller amounts, why didn't you make a suggestion then? Whether as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance or as Minister of Employment, why didn't you take action in this case? We have made a move, since we have created a new category in addition to the fund and the increased care fee, with which we have raised the amount of both. We have created a new priority care fee category, precisely so that those who care for their most serious family members can receive a higher amount of HUF 58 680, compared to what was expected in 2010 for those who received the care fee, the HUF 28 500 or the increased care fee of HUF 37 050. The worst-case scenario was thus raised by 63 percent. Of course, we also believe that this needs to be increased further, and we do not argue with anyone in this regard. Only we could make this progress, which meant a 63 percent increase in income for many families. In addition, a nursing family member is entitled to health care during the period of care and should be considered as a period of service. If you care for your own child for more than 20 years or at least 20 years, you will receive a pension supplement of HUF 50,000, also according to an amendment adopted a year ago. We have been able to do these things, and we hope that for a long time we will be able to report many kinds of increases in this area as well. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-11-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: what is the reason why Hungary has become the 15th safest country in the world? It's an address. Congressman Peter Agh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-11-186	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Not long ago, it was discovered that our country was chosen as the 15th safest country in the world during international research. We know well, as Europe, our country, has been under siege by a wave of migration for years, the risks of which were first recognised by the Hungarian government in Europe. There was an immediate need for a well-thought-out and effective migration policy that does not violate the rights of those in actual need of protection, but prevents uncoordinated influx of illegal border crossings. As part of this, in record time, the border seal to ensure the safety of our southern border area has been built, the results of which, after the initial critical sounds, are increasingly recognised. Thanks to the government's objective of becoming one of the safest countries in Europe, infrastructure and personal development has been made. Over the course of a few years, police personnel have increased by 6,500 and the vehicle and equipment parks have also become significantly younger. The work has brought its fruit, since we have been able to protect our southern border area successfully, while internal security has been constantly improving; in 7 years the number of crimes has decreased from 430,000 to 215 thousand. The absence of terrorist threats in Hungary, the existence of a stable and well-trained law enforcement force and the success of our migration policy are both due to the government's determined goal that Hungarian people's safety is the first. Dear Secretary of State, The question arises: how could we reject such large and internationally recognised countries as Germany, France, Sweden or the United Kingdom? And how can we maintain this high ranking, or even improve it, while the European Union's migration policy increases the continent's security risk? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-11-187	Thank you very much. The answer to the question raised by the Member will be Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value, which determines our daily lives, and in 2010 we promised to restore security in Hungary. And we have done so, as you said: we have adopted strict laws here in this House; we have adopted a new criminal code, a new code of offence; we have strengthened the police both in their personnel and in their means, we have almost completely replaced the fleet of vehicles, we have renewed the IT system; we have launched a new career program. And I would very much like to point out that from 1 July 2015 the new Service Act entered into force, which allowed, for example, an average salary increase of 50 per cent for personnel by 2015, and we are now at 45 per cent. As of 1 January 2019, we will meet this promise by another 5 percent. We can say that Hungary is a safe country, but security is the community value for which we need to do more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. [[17.20]] We are determined to maintain this security, because it is a community value that counts primarily for the people living here, the Hungarian people, Hungary, but also for Hungary in the world, taking into account the economic benefits, we are looking at tourism, Lake Balaton and Budapest to see how many tourists there are in our beloved capital or even on the shore of Lake Balaton or in view of the other tourist attractions and destinations and destinations of the country. But again, we need to do more tomorrow, which is why we have put forward an action plan aimed at protecting Hungary, which includes amending the Fundamental Law and adopting the Stop Soros legislative package. I ask all Members of Parliament, all of our fellow Members, to support these proposals, because this will also contribute to Hungary being a safe country in the future. Thank you, and I'm sorry for the delay. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes the questions. [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman, we started at 4:51 p.m., it ended at 5:21 p.m., and besides, we have exceeded 90 minutes in interpellations and immediate questions. Thank you very much. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: MEPs are motivated.]] Thank you very much for your excellent understanding. Dear Parliament, The draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the publication of the Convention on the reciprocal protection of classified information and the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the publication of the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information and the joint general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the publication of the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information until closure. Government referrals T/407, T/408. and T/409. are available on the IT network. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the author of the legislative proposals. It's got a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-06-11-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The conclusion of the proposed conventions will contribute to strengthening cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs and police cooperation and the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. Today, security is the most important Community value in Europe, which will be protected by the government by all possible means. After the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of Classified Data in 2010, professional work was started to ensure the protection of classified information generated and exchanged in cooperation with partner countries. Dear Parliament, The first milestone of the work to achieve this goal was the first bilateral qualified data protection agreement, which came into force in 2012, which our country concluded with the Slovak Republic. Following this, Hungary concluded an agreement with the Republic of Poland, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Latvia, the French Republic, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Albania, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Cyprus, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Russian Federation, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Spain on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. For several countries, negotiations on similar conventions have already been concluded and the final text of the conventions is being established. Dear Parliament, The Conventions aim primarily to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between countries. In this context, they shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties and designate the competent authorities; they shall also provide for the compatibility of each classification level with each other and for the procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The agreements currently under discussion meet Hungary's national interests, serve the right objectives, strengthen cooperation between countries in criminal matters, fight against terrorism, and also serve the security of the countries concerned. In view of this, I ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to discuss and support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Alpár Gyopáros. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It has always been of paramount importance for Hungary to build relations that improve our country's international image, protection and relations and cooperation with other countries. In recent years, we have had several bilateral treaties and agreements with our partners on this issue from the Secretary of State - which have also strengthened the security and protection of the two parties. This is also the case with the bill before us, between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Finland, on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of Classified Information. Unfortunately, the international security situation is such that there is a great need for closer cooperation in this area. This is why it is welcome that the government is active in strengthening cooperation with our international partners, as in this case with our Finnish partners. In many ways, we have an excellent bilateral relationship with Finland, and it is therefore welcome that this is also the case in this regard. The situation with Sweden is similar. The Hungarian-Swedish relationship has already proven that we place great emphasis on cooperation. In recent years, the economic and trade relations between the two countries have brought more big corporate investors to Hungary, resulting in hundreds of new jobs, and we trust that this will continue in the future. The largest Swedish companies, such as Electrolux, Ericsson, Tetra Pak, IKEA, but many other medium and smaller Swedish companies are also present in Hungary. The Swedish companies operating in Hungary are, according to their own declaration, well prosperous with us, to the satisfaction of both parties, as well as a very important relationship and trust link between the two countries in terms of military technical cooperation, referring to the role of Gripen in Hungary. This goes beyond business relations, a security policy cooperation that generates further links between Sweden and Hungary. In this context, it is even more important to point out that Article 21 of the Treaty provides that: Data and information became one of the most important elements of the century. The Parliament adopted the Act on the Protection of classified data in December 2009, and since then, as we have heard, we have concluded agreements with several countries on this matter. In order to fulfil Hungary's international commitments and to ensure closer cooperation on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, it is appropriate to conclude bilateral contracts with other States. The purpose of the Convention is, in particular, to ensure the protection of data exchanged in cooperation between public bodies belonging to the Contracting Parties and economic organisations. I am convinced that the agreement with the Finnish and Swedish partners would make a major contribution to the development of relations between the two countries by providing the necessary and uniform legal framework. Dear House, In order to maintain the effectiveness of Hungarian-Litvan bilateral relations, it is essential to approve an agreement such as the above. Our bilateral relations are not subject to an open question, and our cooperation is constructive and forward-looking, particularly with regard to security, economic and cultural areas. Péter Szijjártó also negotiated with the Lithuanian Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister on his trip to Vilnius last year, with whom there was full agreement on the need to protect the external borders of the EU, and it would be best to decide who is entitled to enter the territory of the European Union outside the territory of the European Union. The two countries also agree that troubled people should be helped in their homes or as close as possible to return home as possible. In order to deepen defence relations, Hungary has made its commitment clear several times and decided to participate in the protection of the Baltic airspace for four months in 2019. In 2017, in cooperation with the Visegrad countries, we had approximately 200 soldiers stationed in the Baltic States for three months. It has already been confirmed at several bilateral negotiations that both countries are committed to diversification of energy sources and supply routes, Lithuania and our country believe that the decision to cover their energy needs is fully part of their national sovereignty. The T/409. It is therefore important not only to fulfil Hungary's international commitments, to ensure closer cooperation with the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, but also to maintain the effectiveness and hope of Hungarian-Littan bilateral relations. On the basis of all these arguments, the Fidesz Group proposes the bill to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17 .30]]
u2018-06-11-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Adam Mirkóczki. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, I will not reveal a great secret by saying that I believe that all opposition parties, but so will Jobbik. It is reasonable that the exchange and protection of classified information within a federal system is explicitly justified in such a security policy situation. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when we expect something within a federal system, we have to give it. In addition to the fact that as a member of the National Security Committee, I am not going to be talking about closed meetings, especially classified information, but what we know is that if I wanted to make a little joke, I could safely say that there is a chain here and there within the federal system and about the exchange of classified information, because it has happened in the last few weeks that a certain report from us has not been accepted by a certain country. I am only saying this because, when we are discussing such proposals, it would be important to look forward to creating a partnership that not only bases these cooperations on paper, but also in reality means that the federal members can count on us and we can count on them. However, it is important to note here, and today we have been talking about a problem which, by the way, fits here by means of our fellow Member Ágnes Vadai. When we talk about the exchange and protection of classified information, I have to bring back the problem that has already been said about the security gap on the laptop of all the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, the same security gap is on all the computers of the Office of Parliament. I'll add that to the computers of the National Security Committee's office. How do we expect the protection of classified information on our part if we face such a fundamental problem? Obviously, as chairman of the National Security Committee, I have formally addressed this in writing to the National Security Services and the Constitutional Protection Office, and I have no doubt what the content of this response will be, since the National Security Service has spoken about this in closed session long before, and has already told me what the problem is. We're talking about this Kaspersky exterminator here, aren't we? In fact, the NSA officially claims and maintains to this day that Russian intelligence obtained a great deal of sensitive data from the NSA through this antivirus. Compared to this, the Hungarian government does not claim that this is intentional, so I would not leave until then, because I think that there is a simple indiscretion here, or rather that there is a financial interest in these exterminators, because they are cheaper than other exterminators who do not work under the auspices of Russian intelligence. So when we are discussing such a proposal, we should talk about the point. Obviously, it is not an open session or a plenary session, but what can be said here must also be said. If we ask whether we are doing our best to ensure that either the parties with a parliamentary faction or any department of the Parliamentary Office can guarantee today that it will not end up outside the federal system, with data distributed through computers, the Parliamentary Office's computers and the Members' laptops? Obviously, we can't guarantee that. Nor can the Secretary of State guarantee this, nor can any other minister guarantee it, and it is no coincidence that there is a ministry that has already destroyed this virus within its own system by fire and iron six months ago. When we get there in a committee meeting that some countries are not the most correct or with the wrong confidence in the Hungarian secret services, or, let's just say, towards the Hungarian governments, we should always examine why. I think, for example, in such a small thing, I say that it is a small thing - that there is a software on every machine that is now known to leak where it can be leaked, then are we wondering whether there is no constructive and mutuality between classified data that has been transmitted back and forth, if any, or cooperation? Because it's a zero step, if you will. My fellow Member has just mentioned the Gripens. It is a very important project, and it is clear that we are not only within a federal system with the Swedes, but also linked by a close economic and political decision with regard to Gripen. But if, as a parallel to the same case, we point out that the Ministry of Defence does not only engage in military technology business with Sweden, but also with Russia, for example, which makes perfect sense to me, that at present the Hungarian Defence Agency's rotating wing machines cannot improve or modernise at all, only Russia, because it is Russian technology, we are once again confronted with a problem of wondering whether cooperation in certain matters does not take place at the level of confidence that we would expect. Of course, the essence of the proposal is perfectly clear, Europe's security is not a nation state issue, just as terrorism has long been beyond all state borders and even continents, and cooperation is necessary. But when we want to expect results from such cooperation in reality, have we properly considered the things that only we can solve? And today, such a problem has already been discussed, and I presume that it will be discussed at the forthcoming committee meetings. All I ask of the Secretary of State is that what is said here on my part should not be taken as a normal opposition-opposed attitude, but rather as a constructive proposal, because in order for such proposals to be effective and fruitful in reality, it must also be that what we have to do is be done without fail, and not look at who has raised it or when it has failed and who has seen the light of day, whether in connection with this antivirus, but how we will be able to solve it. I can now make a promise here that if the answer is received either by the professional service or by the Constitutional Protection Office, I will transmit it accordingly, and I consider it a first step in common that this software problem will be dealt with as a matter of urgency by all parties and in the interests of Parliament, in the interests of the Office of Parliament. Then we can talk about such proposals in substance, but once again, we will support them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, On 14 December 2009, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified data in favour of 333 yes and 17 non-voting votes. Act replacing the Act on State Secrets and Service Secrets and the Act on National Security Supervision. The new legislation in force from 1 April 2010 has fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary. It has created a single legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information and has also complied with its main legal harmonisation obligations. The creation of a new law on the protection of classified data was primarily justified by the need for a comprehensive review of the 1995 Act on State Secrets and Service Secrets. [[17.40]] There has been a lack of legislation on the protection of NATO, EU and national classified information and the adoption of EU standards that have been amended since our accession to the EU and the introduction of the necessary legal institutions such as national personal and site security certificates or national industrial security systems. With the entry into force of the Act on 1 April 2010, the legal basis necessary for the conclusion and application of bilateral confidentiality agreements was established and the closure of the gap in this field could therefore begin. Accordingly, more than one and a half dozen countries have recently signed the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information. Due to the implementation of the Act on the Protection of Classified Data, the fulfilment of Hungary's international commitments, as well as closer cooperation with other States on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, it is appropriate to conclude additional bilateral contracts. As in the case of the three proposals before us, as in the previous bilateral agreements on this subject, it can be pointed out that the Conventions aim to protect classified information exchanged or generated in cooperation between the parties and public bodies under their jurisdiction and other bodies under their jurisdiction, such as economic organisations. On this basis, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports bilateral international agreements, including this bill, based on a law of secrecy adopted by consensus in 2009, allowing the safe handling and exchange of classified information. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-11-197	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for further speeches by Members. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I am now going to ask Mr Károly Kontra, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-198	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the issue of security is the issue behind which every decent organisation, parliamentary party can form a line, and that the conventions, international treaties that facilitate this, can rightly count on the parties, political groups and political groups to support these proposals. First of all, I would like to thank all three speakers, Mr Alpár Gyopáros, on behalf of Fidesz, and Mr Adam Mirkóczki, on behalf of the MSZP, for the statement of support from Member Ildikó Jobbik and Bangóné Borbély. I believe that the adoption of these proposals and these conventions and the adoption of the bill can contribute to Hungary's security. Allow me to respond very briefly to Mr Mirkóczki's opinion, which is not very close to the bill, which Mr President has generously approved, because this is not so relevant. Obviously, it's so hard to talk about what he wanted to say, and he didn't want to say it because, given the rules of the closed session, he didn't want to say what he might have said, quite rightly. Well, I believe that, and I said this in the response to the immediate question hour, that it is only possible to achieve safe protection in the field of cyber security and this is confirmed by a concordant statement of experts - if users are using several antivirals independently of each other. This guarantees that it will be eliminated if the program's creator himself left some loophole in the system. And I also said, and here again I confirm before the Honourable Parliament that the National Cyber Protection Institute, the National Infocommunications Service Ltd. and the service providers are doing everything they can to protect Hungary, which belongs to their competence. Thus, they also make every effort to protect cyberspace and take every step against everyone if they experience an intention that is hostile and violates Hungarian interests. So I would like to say this: our government is a national government, for us there is only one question, there is only one direction on all issues, and therefore on the issue of security, what is Hungary's national interest on this issue. This is what Hungarian services, the Hungarian organisations who have a role to play in this. But to go back to the bill, because it is appropriate to do so, thank you once again for the statement of support, and I also ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal when voting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Szilágyi: That's why it can't be installed, everything is disabled. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-11-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When are we going to honor those who care for sick family members at home with a decent remuneration? Mr Varga-Damm Andrea, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-11-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'm basically just continuing what we say I stopped about an hour and a half ago, because it's kind of hard to explain in two minutes and in a one-minute answer. I would like to further explain the idea that the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, has said these incredibly generous increases of remuneration here, and the only thing he has forgotten to add is that if the disabled person is forced to be placed in an institution, the Hungarian State will provide the institute with a normative support of more than 250 thousand forints for the care, support and housing of a disabled person. What makes a gross difference is that the citizen takes care of his family members at the cost of his own infrastructure, his own home, in his own environment, and I consider that if a state is so generous to his organizational system, then it is particularly generous to those people who undertake to care for their disabled family members themselves and not to leave them to the institutional burden of the state. Not to mention that we all know that with a very, very bad heart, any family member with disabilities is placed in an institution, and usually this happens only if there is no family member who can care for him or if the family is in such a bad financial situation that it endangers their own livelihood if they have to care for a disabled family member. This question, however, deserves to be mentioned in one other aspect, which we can talk about on very few occasions, and although I am very sorry that there are so few Members in this House, we hope to be able to bring this issue to the attention of citizens through social media. When a disabled person is cared for in a family, the family's dynamism, the ability to care for the family, also makes use of all the rehabilitation opportunities that can be used to develop the disabled. When a disabled person is in an institution, the inability of an institution always prevents a disabled person from getting the development opportunities that can improve his or her condition by starting to create self-preservation. Of course, we know that we have a lot of people with multiple disabilities who have no chance of ever getting back into society, but as long as there is hope, and as long as the condition is such that it can be done, it is possible to try, there is a much greater chance for a disabled person in a family to ever need this kind of support if his development can be achieved. [[17.50]] In the institutional system, the number of social workers is decreasing. In general, the number of people with disabilities does not change, but the number of caregivers is significantly low. I've been talking about their wages for the past week, and in Switzerland, they can work five or six times as much. And the fact is that people with disabilities in the institutions have a stable number, but the number of social workers is falling, they are burned out, they are tired, and the few wages are extremely frustrating for them. We have just proposed that the average wage should be paid to a family member who is willing to care for a disabled family member, because this, if we do the math, creates a much more favourable budget expenditure at the end, and what is very important is that it is always the conclusion of professionals on all issues such as education of children, health care institutions and rehabilitation centres that the worst position is when it comes to providing such problems to an institution. If the family, friendly communities, micro-communities provide care, education, support, it always means a higher level of service to the individual with such an ugly word, and it takes a much greater burden off the state than it had previously. On behalf of the government, only Secretary of State Károly Kontrat is here [[Károly Kontra: Only?]] But he is likely to attend government meetings, and he can say that our proposal to the budget can only be favourable in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-201	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In the tourism sector, a lack of work has also been asked to speak after the agenda from the Jobbik Group, Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Thus, at the beginning of the summer tourist season, in the preseason, I think you have been informed of a number of newscasts, and you have even personally experienced an increasing shortage of workers in the field of tourism. The reason why I decided to give my so-called virginal speech on this subject is that there have been two conflicting statements in the last week. One was done by the president of the Balaton Tourism Association, Mr. Henrik Hoffmann, who said that the shortage of labour can be managed and well organised. In recent years, I have observed President Henrik Hoffmann's speeches, following his statements, that, indeed, when government critical voices appear in the press, he always reveals and defends positions. But when you said you were trained, retrained and student workers could solve the labour shortage that is currently emerging during the summer tourist season, I think that this is a very big problem. After all, he knows that only qualified workers can provide quality tourism at Lake Balaton, because this is what the demand is for, not only domestic, but also foreign tourists. In contrast, Rezső Kertész, the co-chairman of the Somogy County representative of commercial and catering entrepreneurs, expressed the opposite. He said that the shortage of workers is a very big problem, that more and more people decide not to open up because they cannot find skilled workers, they cannot fill those posts. I remember it, because I walked on the shore of Lake Balaton last week, that I was about to meet more stop signs, where they don't advertise products and services, but they say they're looking for a waiter, a cook, a kitchen helper. So what I see now is that the shortage of labour not only on the shore of Lake Balaton, but also on the whole country is causing a huge problem in the tourism sector. And I would like to draw attention to one more aspect. President Henrik Hoffmann has already said that wages in the tourism sector have approached the Western wage level. I did a very small research on the website of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, and for the Balaton and Somogy county, I looked up data from Somogy county, compared to national data. I found data in the first quarter of 2018, according to which the average net earnings in the area of catering in Somogy County were 118 thousand forints, 128,000 forints nationwide, and 127 thousand forints for hotel services in Somogy County and 158 thousand forints nationwide. Today the euro exchange rate is nearly 320 forints. I have counted it over, and in the area of catering this means a net wage of EUR 361 and EUR 388 in the case of accommodation services. Net wages in these sectors are less than €400 in these areas. And then we are talking about 200,000 forints of wages in those articles. It is true that it was not written that it was net or gross, and there have been cases in which even members of the government could not distinguish between net and gross wages in the body of representatives of Siófok. I thought he was probably talking about net wages when he wrote that he said it was 200,000 forints for housewives. I can only hope that they will not strengthen the grey economy, the grey employment, because we admit that if a housewife made 200 thousand forints net, then these average earnings would certainly be higher than the accommodation service of 400 euros. We see it, and everyone watches it at the end of the month when the money slips in the envelope; these circumstances are terrible, and this needs to be changed. The Jobbik Hungary Movement has raised the issue of the Wages Union more than two years ago, and we are pleased that the European Commission will examine this issue in the context of a global pan-European consultation. One more thing: the social contribution tax, which has already been mentioned today, will decrease in the coming years, is still limited. There are currently 15 types of tax relief, of which only one is a bound FEOR number. It is recommended that other FEOR numbers for catering and accommodation services are included in the scope of social contribution tax incentives. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ovádi applied for a speech after the Fidesz Group on the theme of the festival between Veszprém and its region. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-204	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Nowadays, there is often a spotlight on the identity of a country or region. There are places in Europe where these centuries or millennia of values are now basically shaking. And there are countries, such as the Carpathian Basin, where the 21st century Despite the dusty atmosphere of the century, peace and tranquillity prevail. And this condition allows us to complete our centuries of culture and our need for culture. I am proud to represent Veszprém and its region in the Hungarian Parliament, as I am convinced that this region, besides its centuries-old history, was a shaper and writer of Hungarian history, the XXI. He is also a major player in Hungarian and international culture and a special melting pot. Identity can be said not only in the case of peoples and nations, but also in smaller units, settlements and rural areas. One of the key identities of Veszprém is its well-known culture. Historical values in this accelerated world are no longer competitive in themselves. This was recognized by Veszprém and recognized by the programme organizers in the area, bringing to life festivals that attract music lovers not only from the area but also from the country or beyond to the Danube. Without the need for completeness, some of these are. Veszprémfest has had a right to mark the premium festival for years. The international pop music comes to us year after year, who can fill stadiums anywhere on earth during their concerts. Joss Stone or Amy Macdonald's name must be familiar with the most demanding pop music lovers. They are just two performers of this year's Veszprémfest, whose mood and atmosphere are raised not only by the performers, but also by the venue of the concerts. The joy of community music is presented by the street music festival, which takes place every year, where the downtown of our county seat turns into a bustling festival venue, where representatives of all trends turn on stage through world music and classical music to alternative music, and children, families and older people can have the same fun in the audience's ranks. [[18.00]] Staying on demand, the violin festival, marked by the name of Lipót Auer, has more successful opportunities in August, but I could mention the operat gala called this year by Petőfi Theatre, serving the entertainment needs of more people. The Kabóciadé family festival has been offering entertainment to the youngest for 25 years, and the dance festival has been held for 20 years for lovers of motion culture. The Veszprém Beer Festival or the Veszprém Spring Festival has been an attractive program for many years, and every two years the Veszprém University Days are held. What keeps these events alive year after year, and even fills them with new content, is the enthusiasm of the people who live here, and their desire to do so by laying down lasting experiences and values for posterity. Ladies and gentlemen, You have certainly seen how a successful regional centre can have a positive impact on its surroundings, whether from a social, economic, or cultural point of view. In and around Veszprém, we are in such a fortunate position that the region is full of settlements where the care of cultural monuments is not only considered a duty for the people living there, but also an opportunity for entertainment that fulfills their everyday lives. Perhaps you have never heard of a few settlements in Bakony, where such rich cultural values are counted. Also without the need for completeness, Bakonynánad has a dumpling festival, Nemesvámos has a lens and loop festival, a potato and harvest festival in Italy, or I could mention the walnut and pear jamboree in Bakonynád, the rosemary festival in Körösvám and the royal saintistván lake festival. These, although in their theme they differ from the festivals of the county seat, in their mission they have the same quality content to fill the free time of the people and visitors. I welcome and invite everyone to the summer programs of Veszprém and surrounding settlements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-11-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. In front of NAT, NAT after me, or Minister Kásler's case of education from Jobbik's group, Member Brenner Koloman came forward after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to continue on a subject that was already on the table before this House today. I think that whatever Secretary of State Retvári said, Minister Miklós Kásler's words cannot be taken out of context. I quote: The National Basic Training Plan is excellent, the problem is with the implementation. The transfer of knowledge could be faster. This cannot be taken out of the context, honourable Members. These sentences mean that the Minister has not been able to detect the signals and incredible tension on the issue of education, which, for years, have become apparent to everyone, both from the teaching profession, from the school-age children's educators and from the educational politicians, except for the fidesz educators, because this has not been at Fidesz since actually Zoltán Pokorni, I believe. This is also demonstrated by the test surveys on the problem-solving ability of Hungarian students, the teacher-student relationship, the failures to overcome social differences. Somewhere the previous government responded, for they appointed Valeria Csépe as government commissioner, and a job began, as we have heard, and then there is a profound silence about the result. I think that the solution can be clearly launched towards a more structured, more clearly focused curriculum and a reduction in the unprecedented and unjustified overload of students and teachers. The Minister's opinion on a faster transfer of knowledge would further deepen the existing problems, and according to some professional circles, he would fail the teacher's exam if he said so. According to all theory of education research, the transfer of knowledge should be slowed down, as Fidesz's government commissioner Valeria Csépe said, in order to refer to him, as they may believe him. More effectively than previously, it is necessary to incorporate the proposals of the profession, its comments, and obviously we should finally get to the 21st century. 1st century, the 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century in Hungarian public education and in the education system in general. We would like to ask the Minister's opinion on a number of professional issues, such as whether NAT is properly building on the integration of digital tools and results. How does NAT ensure the development of basic skills? How do you see it guaranteed to improve the quality of vocational training and textbooks? Is the foreign language knowledge of those coming out of Hungarian public education sufficient? We know that the situation is tragic in the EU average as well. Speaking of vocational training, the situation of vocational training is absolutely desperate, thanks to the Fidesz policy. After all, according to all surveys, students in vocational training do not have the basic skills, I mean: writing, reading and counting. I would like to point out that, in the new governance structure, Vocational Training has been transferred to Minister Palkovics, so that this extremely tragic sector of education remains under the authority of the well-known educational politician, colleague Parragh. Finally, I would like to say that I do not think that we have solved the issue by what you said here in one of Mr Secretary's rejoinders, that we will review NAT every five years, because these are burning problems that require an immediate response from the leaders of education policy. There's nothing to see here, comrades, but mentality, I think we should move on. I am not talking about the fact that the EMMI, in the structure of the new government, maintains the fundamental social policy of Fidesz that all sectors that the Prime Minister does not care about are brought together in such a fantastic ministry, so that the tragic situation of education, health and the social sphere does not happen to reach the government. Jobbik would spend at least 6 per cent of its GDP on education compared to this and address these issues with an independent Ministry of Education. I think we have urgent work to do on this matter together. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, What's going on? Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked to speak after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The question in the title relates to what I think we all learned two weeks ago in shock. Ceglédbercel may have had one of the most serious accidents in recent years, which was not only in the unusual outcome of the death route, compared to the 4 but also in the whole country. As is known, nine people lost their lives in the otherwise Romanian-marked minibus in which there were migrant workers from Slovenia and other Western European countries. The horror of the accident itself drew attention to a number of things that must be dealt with. I am particularly pleased that, on the part of the Ministry of Interior, there is a State Secretary who may be able to answer the questions raised by the public on the spot, and it is also important for the legislators to resolve them. Looking at the accident statistics and data, seeing how transit traffic goes through Hungary, the Western European transit enters essentially on the M1 motorway, then the Budapest bypass, using the M0 on the M5, finally moving in the direction of M3 or 4 or continuing on the 5 motorway. We often face those who do not choose the train as their means of travel, as their means of travelling, that there are a lot of foreign cars on the roads, mainly vans, and on these roads the road, highway 4 or highway M5 is almost filled with these cars. So we can safely conclude that such an accident is very common. By the way, the day after the accident, there was a similar accident with minor injuries at the time, on the M5 highway. But we can see that this problem is with us, we can safely say, and we are not exaggerating that hundreds of thousands of people are crossing Hungary in this form of travel and going through our roads through transit traffic. We can also see that the M1 motorway is one of the busiest Hungarian motorways, then following M0 is also one of the busiest motorways, and the 4 highway on which the accident took place is one of the busiest, in fact the busiest highway. We also see that in the accident statistics these roads are at the forefront, most accidents occur on the M1 motorway, by number more than a hundred. For this, data from 2014 and 16 were available, and 14 fatal accidents occurred on the road. The same sequence, even slightly higher, applies to Route 4. [[18.10]] So it is clear that we are talking about a very dangerous road, and we can see that on these roads, regardless of irresponsible drivers or faulty drivers, because, remember, traffic, driving is a dangerous factory, unfortunately accidents happen, but we can see that it is coded into traffic flows that a great tragedy can happen at any time. In addition, in this individual case, which was just now, or in this accident, there were individual reasons, since, as it turned out, neither the technical condition was adequate for this van, and the driver's driver's driver's license had previously been taken away for similar offences or violations. So it is clear that a similar accident could be detected with official control, since this vehicle could not go any further, on the one hand not being able to drive at such a high speed and not being driven by a driver who is banned from driving. So here comes the responsibility of the legislators, here comes the responsibility of the enforcement workers, so those who are working on the enforcement of the law, and the Ministry of the Interior, and the question arises whether we can do something about it. As far as I'm concerned, we can and we can, and the police have control here. It would be particularly important, and I think it is vitally important to have targeted actions and controls that control companies and buses in transit, not large passenger transport, but up to 9 passengers, precisely so as to meet the basic requirements that are technical, which are elements of public safety, which are related to the participation of the vehicle in transport, so that all these rules are complied with and enforced, because on the one hand, these accidents could be prevented. So I think it is important for the police, the Ministry of the Interior, to take decisive action when such an accident, such a tragedy has already occurred, and it is important that not only on regular speed marathons or routine speed measurements, but also with priority actions to control traffic in transit, we prevent not only foreign transit traffic, but also our countrymen from being endangered on our roads. I would remind everyone once again that the most dangerous sections of roads are used by these vehicles in transit, so it is vital and vital that the police will act decisively, well and effectively in this area. We look forward to what the government will do and how it will try to solve this problem. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the title of his speech was also addressed to the group of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-11-210	Mr President, Dear House, As of today, Hungarians have already been talking about housing difficulties and life difficulties in Hungary. This, on the one hand, amplifies the emigration spiral and, on the other hand, makes it difficult to deal with the demographic disaster, but I must say, as an introduction, that I consider the behaviour of the government to be very harsh and inadequate and pathetic in this area. I now give my regards to the Secretary of State. [[Károly Kontra: Good afternoon!]] The fact that a secretary of state is at least here may answer the question, but the conduct of three or four of their representatives in the Chamber, not three or four of them, from a government with a two-thirds mandate, is outrageous, but the fact that their only secretary of state is not able to place him here for the time of the speeches after the agenda and, where appropriate, to answer any questions that arise. I think that this is our workplace, and I find it outrageous that not every point of substance is given a meaningful answer. I hope that in this case we will see an exception. I would like to say that, while we are examining why housing difficulties have developed in Hungary, housing poverty has deepened so much, why so many people are migrating out of the country, XXI. We should take a 20th century view and see that when we look at the behaviour of the government in relation to the sharing economy, Uber, Airbnb and similar achievements, this government is stuck in the 19th century. In the century. The inadequacy of Uber and its economic intervention has proved that it is very difficult for the government to handle them, but when we talk about the rent market in Budapest, it costs 130-150 thousand forints for an average size apartment, let's say, downtown, just the rent and the rent, and then they wonder that Hungarian young people are unable to start their lives at home, then the air stops, the time stops for a moment, because it is as if you do not understand the reasons. After all, if the government had intervened only with regard to Airbnb, as many governments have intervened in many countries around the world, we would have something to talk about, since we should understand that if, say, based on the investigation between 2014 and 2017, New York had only taken out between 7000 and 13 500 real estates from the market, Airbnb and thus blew up the rents, then don't be surprised if the same happens in Budapest, that they also take out thousands of apartments from the market, and, indeed, due to a supply shortage, there is a continuous increase in rent prices. We can also see that V., VI. and VII. This is clearly typical of the district, but by June 2017, Mr Secretary, after I warned you of the seriousness of the problem for the fifth time, by June 2017, the airbnb offer in Pest had almost reached the capacity of the hotels, so far thousands of Hungarian properties have been rented from the supply side of the rent market. So it was perfectly logical that rent prices would go away. And what did you do? He didn't burn a damn thing. This is when we suggested that you sit down with the relevant market players, choose from the many options. One is, say, a flat-rate form of taxation, where the affected person can register properly, pay a flat-rate fee per room per year, then leave everyone alone, the authority does not pay, yet contributes to public burdens, the system is clarified, and, where appropriate, the supply side can be reclaimed a little, so in the long term, we do not have to count on rents, and in the medium term, the negative consequences of this are already to be dealt with with with the negative consequences of the current high prices. But we can also see that, while I say it once again, the number of airbnb seats has increased to 42.5 thousand, so it is approaching its 45,000 hotel capacity, a government that takes itself seriously cannot afford to take any action in this area. You can't just tell people who have a financial background to do so to pick up the CSOK. If Mr. Secretary of State is working in a bank, talking to people who are active and otherwise conclude contracts like this, he will realize that during a salary of 400,000, they are driving customers away with this kind of thing. So if an average Hungarian youth wants to start his life, he needs a flat, he needs to deal with such market anomalies, so that they can't get high prices, but mostly predictable, communication, and that this government is serious about it, and the Hungarian politician is serious about wanting to keep young people at home. This is what I expect of you, the 1 million 300 thousand voters behind Jobbik, expect from the current government of Hungary. I'm asking you to finally act accordingly. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Is there a future for the Csepel Workers' Home from the MSZP Group? Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke after the agenda. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-11-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps I could say that there is a future for the Csepel Workers' Home, 1 and this is a huge cry, because I will continue to save together the last such terminal in Hungary after the next agenda. On March 14, 1920, the Csepel Workers' Home was inaugurated. This famous cultural house was created by public will in Csepel, as the Csepel population, factory Weiss Manfréd, the Vasas Trade Union Association, helped to cover the costs of the construction, as well as the organization of the Social Democratic Party in Csepel. For the past 98 years, the Csepel Workers' Home has always been a cultural centre in Csepel's life and served no other purpose. Since 2000, the institution has been operating in the maintenance of the Csepel Workers' Home Foundation, perhaps only in the country, which is also the owner of the 5400 sq m property. The Csepel Workers' Home Foundation operates in the spirit of its founding document, its primary and general objective is to cultivate the existing cultural, community values and assets of Csepel, to make it more widely known, to create the values of Hungarian culture and to convey them to the local population. They took part in the maintenance, preservation, transfer of traditions, as well as in enriching the specific local culture. [[18.20]] The institution is an important area of local community culture, by which it strengthens local identity awareness in the users of forms of culture. During the life of the institution, there was a constant home for communities who wanted to cultivate, as well as people who were receptive to arts. At present, their primary goal is to find a program on cultural palettes that you are happy to visit in the working home, which conveys values to you and where you can contribute to the formation of local society. The revenue side of their farming was at the beginning four stable levels, such as own income, state aid, municipal support and other applications, donations. From this today, in 2018, unfortunately, they have remained a strong source of income, which is their own revenue. There's no municipal revenue, there's no tender revenue, and there's no state aid. In addition, you can't dream of other opportunities, maybe what's left of them is the donations. In an interesting way, the municipal aid was abolished by the new Fidesz city administration from 2011 and the state aid has not been paid to them since 2016 for such reasons, or the Fidesz government may even allow itself to do so without justification. The Csepel Workers' Home Foundation is a founding member of the Association of Territorial Cultural Institutions, which receives operating grants through annual applications submitted through the organization. In 2016, however, in consultation with Mr.Péter Hoppál, State Secretary, instead of HUF 21 million approved by the TEMIE expert group, the Presidency of the TEMIE authorised only half of this, with HUF 10 million and HUF 136 thousand operating aid to the Foundation, of course with a transfer at the end of the year. The decision was then not justified by anything unacceptable to them. In the meantime, we reached 2018, and before the elections it was found that they were still not receiving state aid to maintain the Csepel Workers' Home. I think it is right to say that we are talking about Hungary's last cultural institution, and we can rightly ask the government to stop punishing this institution now. If he cares about the preservation of the heritage, the protection of the culture that we are constantly hearing here in Parliament and in his communication, then I can only ask him to stop punishing the Csepel Workers' Home and the Foundation as operators and to override the support that has now been rejected and finally help this institution to save. I'll continue the next time, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-11-213	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. What will be the fate of the extension of the M9 motorway in Bács-Kiskun County? Mr Gergely Farkas, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-214	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to continue the practice that I have already done in the previous term, that I would like to bring to the House the problems of my constituency, the Kiskunhalas-centred and 22 other settlements that belong to this town, to lobby to solve the problems, to represent the inhabitants. I would like to raise one of these today. However, before I get to the specific issue, I would like to share a few thoughts about my constituency in general, as this constituency is having very serious problems, with migrations of more than the national average, the ageing of villages, the lack of jobs, or in some cases, when there is work, these businesses and companies are unable to pay so competitively that they can keep people at home. It is no coincidence that Jobbik has long raised the issue of the Wages Union, which would ensure an increased wage catch-up, so that we will not only catch up to Western Europe in prices but also in wages. Many factors could boost the problems of my region, the combined impact of many factors, but one of them is the development of the road network, as it would also involve job creation and attract entrepreneurs that unfortunately are now avoiding our region, and these major businesses are moving to other areas with a better road network. The additional point of my speech today is that a few days ago it was published in the Hungarian Gazette that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán instructed László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, to review the previously planned motorway investments. Indeed, this review gives us hope, including those living in the region, that decisions might be made that would benefit us. In particular, our area is currently not affected by a single motorway; the M9 is the motorway, a section of which has been completed, but its extension awaits itself. More specifically, since 2003, it has been 15 years, and the construction of the M9 has not progressed a centimeter, although a lot of people have lobbied for it, and a lot of politicians, organisations and mayors in the region have indicated how important this would be for the development of the region. For example, our county assembly has repeatedly formulated its demand for this. But, for example, to quote only the mayor of Kiskunhalas, which is the centre of my constituency, he also began in 2014 by saying how important it would be for the M9 to reach road 53, since many businesses have not settled down in Kiskunhalas because of this lack, and the city certainly feels the consequences. From the integrated urban development strategy of the town of Kiskunhalas, how many people have said how important it would be to extend this motorway section, because it is very little that now all the M6 on the left side of the Danube and the 51 main road are connected by the small section that includes the Danube bridge. It would be more important to connect the M6 with the M5. Through our region, this could bring prosperity to Kiskunhalas, Jánoshalma, Kecel, Boatsman and many other settlements. Unfortunately, however, we do not see any progress, despite the importance of this in any way, in any timetable. This is not the first time I have raised this issue in the Parliament as early as 2016 and 2017. Last year, it was as if with János Fónagy, who answered the question, we would have talked side by side, because he said that there was no plan to extend the M9, but he tried to reassure me that the Szeged-Debrecen phase would be renewed in return. That's very good, but it doesn't affect Uncle County at all. I don't know why this was meant for me, the Csongrád and Hajdú county people and the Békés county people must be happy about this, the Bács-Kiskun county people will not be reassured by this, nor will they be filled with enthusiasm. I would like to ask the government's current secretary of state to reflect on what the Bács-Kiskun County people can expect, specifically Kiskunhalas and its region, on the extension of the M9 motorway. It would be very important to achieve this as soon as possible in order to boost the region. I trust this will not keep you waiting long, but it will happen as soon as possible. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda with the title of the extra profit of the luxury parasite for the government and the reality of the decaying side roads. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-11-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For those who pursue the science of lynology and biology, there is a very interesting species of fish, this type of fish is the fish with the sloppy mouth, which lives around the hippos' asses, swims in the water, cleans it, and floats out of the dropout. If we compare the fidesz system of national cooperation to such a large hippopotamus, then I must say that this hippo, NER, has its own scruffy-mouthed fish. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Who clean up nicely and fatten themselves out of billions of dollars from the state. These public projects, which are provided to them, are typically investment in infrastructure, making a hundred billion extra profit, and from this they can build a media empire that can purify, silence the truth, or disguise all the filth produced by their bread-paying farmers, which would certainly be very uncomfortable for the ruling party. [[18.30]] The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that the amazingly growing, incredibly talented Lőrinc Társaság, as well as his friend László Szíy, and his interests, will receive an investment of about HUF 1000 billion by the end of the term. If we look at the ability of these companies to generate profits, we must be amazed at this, because the profitability of the companies of these gentlemen has been around 20-30 percent over the last few years. This is many times the number of companies and construction companies that are forced to thrive under market and non-dude conditions, where this is only 1-2 percent. If we compare this thousand billion forints and this 20-30 percent profit rate, then we have to say that in four years these gentlemen will increase themselves by another 250 billion forints and continue to fatten their bank accounts, from which they can then start new investments, enter the banking sector and classify them to infinity. But the point is, from this point of view, they can continue to build the fidesz media portfolio to spread these lies. So what we see is, on the one hand, there's money for a lot of things, but there's nothing else. And we say here in the benches of Jobbik that this is not right. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, It is not right that on these projects, on these public investments, they make tens and hundreds of billions, while dozens of small settlements, if I can only look at my own county, Somogyország, they feel buried alive, because about a quarter of the settlements here are sacks, cut off from the world, and would be very happy if the world opened up to them. But that would take money. Their dying in these settlements, I think they'll be in the final stage soon, if everything goes on like this, but there's money for medicine, you just have to declare that this money will be stolen. They have repeatedly called out from the pro-government lines themselves that the opposition is accusing them of quasi-theft; then I must reiterate that overpricing is also stealing, even if it is legitimized. But it is not the case, my fellow Members, that the side roads rot in many places, that there is no money to build these connecting roads or to improve very important main roads, on which huge transit traffic has been pouring, while these people are taking a terrible extra profit every year. Unfortunately, there is no individual elected government representative of the inner and southern Somogy region, but I would like to invite you to the half-track road closure that the Danic citizens will use on Wednesday morning, because the settlement has become almost completely unlivable because of the huge truck traffic on Route 6, which is seen as the death route by the driver.hu and all transport specialised portals, or one of the most dangerous roads in Hungary. I'm asking you to pay attention to these things, pay attention to the voice of people living on peripherals, such as the periphery of South Somogy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-11-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Imre László applied for a speech from the DK Group entitled The Healing Power of the Ten Commandments. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-11-218	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As is known, the recently elected new head of EMMI spoke of 70-80 percent of fatal diseases being avoided by keeping the Ten Commandments. Allow me, as a doctor, to say that 70-80 percent of deadly diseases today's medicine cannot prevent even in the most advanced countries. Such statements will certainly not serve the expected and expected progress of health care departments in their activities. I could give you a number: 32 thousand. This is awfully empty, but if I say that today 32 thousand people die in Hungary every year, not fatal, but curable, avoidable, preventable diseases, then this number sounds very different. Every year, the government renounces a Szekszárd or a town the size of Gyöngyös, who could still be among the living, of course, if Fidesz does not destroy Hungarian health care. Before we learn the term fake news from Viktor Orbán, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we know this data from research coordinated by the State Healthcare Services Center. The country lost 32,000 grandmothers, grandfathers, fathers, mothers, and children every year. I think in this situation, there will be little of the Ten Commandments, because that means that you have destroyed for eight years instead of building. Dear House, Week after week, we hear new big health plans, like Fidesz hasn't been on the government for eight years. Last time, the Minister of EMMI said that national programmes are now being prepared to reduce population diseases in three weeks. The Orbán government has been 138 times three weeks in the last eight years, so we should be in the middle or at the end of a major health reform by now. In comparison, three doctors and two nurses have been abroad every day for the past eight years; in these eight years, almost every day, a general practitioner who decided that he could no longer work in this healthcare system has been able to work; in these eight years, we have been able to hear every year that hospitals have accumulated 60-70 billion or even 80 billion debts. Before coming in the last eight years before the last eight years, please note an important figure: according to the international survey of the French-based Health Consumer Centre, in 2017 he performed better than the Hungarian health care industry in Albania and Macedonia. In 2008, the health of the Gyurcsány government in the same composition also preceded Italy, Spain and Ireland. In the last eight years, Hungarian healthcare has fallen 16 places under the government of Fidesz. We have long gone beyond making enough promises, and we would like to see such promises and actions about national programmes! In your opposition, you have crossed the first step of the left-wing health reform with the cry that health cannot be a business, but health has become the best business ever since. Year after year, the number of people who reach deep into their pockets to provide them with private health care when they are not getting adequate care in the state. There are 95 percent of Hungarians, however, who do not have money for private clinics and private hospitals. The government left them, 95 percent of the Hungarians without proper health care. I am therefore curious to ask the government what it will do to Hungarian health over the next four years, after the eight years that have been destroyed. What will Miklós Kásler do that Zoltán Balog didn't do or couldn't do? How will the government avoid preventable, I stress, not the deadly, but the preventable deaths, 70-80% of them, so that a secsard of people don't die every year? I could also ask what we will do with the Ten Commandments where prayer is slowly no longer helping. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-11-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a speech after the agenda titled Renewal in the Ormanship. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[18.40]]
u2018-06-11-220	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that he is the only one of the 64 ministers of state in the government, and I trust that, after my speech, we can get some answer from the Secretary of State, although I do not have so many illusions about this, listening to the speech of my fellow opposition Members. I would like to talk about a matter on which we can see the government's ability to deceive even the poorest people in the poorest regions and to abandon the people living in the smallest settlements, the most backward settlements. The Ormany is in the title of my speech after the agenda. This is a beautiful, but extremely poor area of Hungary, an area that is, you can say, one of the poorest in the country, typically a small village area, a peripheral area where the settlement structure is made up of small settlements. We have heard from various fellow Members about the typical problems these settlements face. I believe that, in such a situation, the conduct of abandoning and deceiving the population of these settlements is particularly cynical and reprehensible. Let's see what happened specifically. Before the elections, János Lázár hacked around the media as a minister, saying that the reduction in winter rents is due to everyone, and that they will also be able to enforce a kind of compensation, a compensation of HUF 12 thousand, who do not heat gas, so in whose account this kind of reduction cannot be enforced. So the promise was made that households who fired in other ways would also receive this HUF 12,000 credit. Typically, we're talking about poorer households here. At the same time, this measure did not go well, as the government made a decision to take into account the inhabitants of the municipalities where the gas supply was not actually physically introduced. We know that there are very few such settlements, so one percent of the settlements are involved in where the gas supply is not yet introduced, but the population of those settlements has been forgotten by the government and forgotten the promise, the propaganda, where the gas supply is physically connected, so it is in principle available, but the population cannot tie it in and use it in the worst financial conditions. Tens of thousands of households or even hundreds of thousands of households have been abandoned in this way by the government, i.e. these households, referring to the fact that the gas supply is in the settlements, the gas pipeline is in, there is no such compensation. The most shocking thing is that they were not even given any information or even answers to their questions from the authorities. I am a representative of Baranya County, I was approached by the mayor of several settlements from the Ormany, and it was the mayor of a small village of Ormans, Besence, who first drew attention to this problem in the national press. This issue has already been discussed here in the House during this term, but I thought it important to bring it up again and to speak again on this issue, because no government action has taken place since then, and this is shocking to me, these settlements or mayors have not received an answer from government authorities. I would like to ask the government's current official, and I would like to call on the government to take immediate action to resolve this problem, to give clear answers and information to the leaders of the affected areas, not only to the Ormany, but also to the leaders of the affected regions and settlements nationwide, in what way and when the government keeps this promise, that all households will receive this support of HUF 12,000. I would like this kind of information to be provided as quickly as possible to the mayors of the settlements concerned, so that the mayors can, of course, respond to very legitimate residential requests and questions in the region and in the settlements. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether it is the government's intention to remedy this serious omission as soon as possible. When can the inhabitants of the affected regions expect this? And when will the mayors be informed of this so that they can pass this information on to the population of the settlements? Thank you very much.
u2018-06-11-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your full day's work. We will resume our work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good, good night, a safe home.
