u2018-06-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear House, Today is June 4th. 98 years ago, by signing the Trianon peace treaty, two thirds of our country's historical territory and one third of its Hungarian population were under the jurisdiction of foreign powers. Eight years ago, the National Assembly declared 4 June to be the day of national cohesion by adopting the Act on Witnessing for National Inclusion. 98 years ago, the European great powers of our time condemned our state to inability to live and our nation to alienate itself. On June 4th, 1920, István Rakovszky, Speaker of Parliament, said, among other things, I quote that under the influence of the pressure, we will sign this so-called peace covenant. But no one can be forced to do the impossible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. CHAPTER XX The Hungarians survived the tragic inequities of the 20th century, and this was the only way our nation could preserve its state and its spiritual unity. The source of this retention force, honourable Members, is the consciousness of our national solidarity. Eight years ago, we declared June 4 a day of national solidarity because we are convinced that neither the guilt that others feed on us nor the injury consciousness that is powerful on ourselves is the 21st. You can't build a future in the century. We are convinced that the ideals of the state serving its nation and the consciousness of national belongings ensuring the spiritual unity of Hungarians are not only a valuable and suffering legacy of the past, but also an essential guarantee of our future. The past and the future are closely linked. In Trianon, three million Hungarians were deprived of their right to decide who they wanted to live with in their homeland, without asking them, overstepping national borders and pushing them into minority ranks that still limit their human dignity. Today, there are those who want to deprive all nations of their right to choose who they want to live with in their homeland. Some people want to transform the European area by means of illegal migration without consulting European nations. In Trianon, the Hungarian state was wanted by the winners, but today there are those who want to put all European states away, including those of former winners. In the times ahead, national integration can be an essential resource not only for Hungarians, but also for all European nations, and therefore also for the European Union based on the cooperation of equal European national states. Europe can survive in world power not by eliminating national interests and values, but only by harmonising them. After 98 years, we Hungarians, the greatest losers of the First World War, wish the same for the former winners as ourselves: a nation with a common sense of national consciousness and an active state open to international cooperation. On behalf of the National Assembly on this day we owe thanks, recognition and thanks to all our fellow countrymen who, in the past century, have sacrificed their lives in the Carpathian Basin or in the world, or have dedicated the work of their lives to preserving and strengthening Hungarian national cohesion. God save Hungary and all Hungarian people in their homeland! Dear House, Once again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament that Ernő Rozgonyi died in the 85th year of our former colleague's life. During the political career of Ernő Rozgonyi, born in Budapest, for the first time between 1998 and 2002, he became the party's parliamentary representative and vice-president on the MIÉP national list. After that, he worked as an independent representative in the Hungarian Parliament between 2010 and 2012 in the colours of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, then from 2012 to 2014. During his time in the Parliament, he has been involved in the work of several committees, including as Vice-President of the Court of Auditors and the Budget Committee, as Chairman of his sub-committee for control and as a member of the Economic and IT, Sustainable Development, Territorial Development and Employment and Labour Committee. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mrs Bősz Anett quit the Parliamentary Group of the Dialogue for Hungary on 18 May 2018. It shall continue its work as an independent representative. I would like to inform you that the Head of the Parliamentary Group of the Dialogue for Hungary, Ms Timea Szabó, announced on May 20, 2018 that Mr Tamás Mellar is the House Rule 5. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, he joined the Group of the Hungarian Party of Dialogue. The number of the faction thus reaches the house rule 2. The minimum number specified in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of Article 2 shall not be exceeded, and therefore the political group shall not cease to exist. I would also like to announce that on 28 May, Member Gergely New Year's Eve, Mr Gémesi, and on 30 May, Mr György, have informed me that his representatives are giving up their seats. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 197. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has excluded Mrs Dóra Dúró from the group. It shall continue its work as an independent representative. I declare that on 22 May 2018, Mr Erik Fülöp informed me that he had removed the cause of conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise his rights as a result of his mandate and be entitled to remuneration. I would like to inform you that on 30 May 2018, MEP László Hajdu announced that he would remove the conflict of interest against him with effect from 7 June, so that he can exercise his rights arising from the mandate of his representatives from this point on and be entitled to his remuneration from that date. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the two groups of the same number of members are on the order of the speech in the order of 1/2018-2022. The IÜB agreed on the criteria set out in its ad hoc position. In view of this, from 4 July 2018 until 8 April 2020 the representative of the Democratic Coalition Group, from 9 April 2020 until the end of the term, may be the first representative of the political group to take the floor - in relation to each other. Dear Parliament, On 4 June, István Hiller, on behalf of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-04-1	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! In European history and modern times, in all history, peace plays its role when it brings peace between individuals, people, relationships between people and communities, and relations between states. The Trianon peace agreement signed 98 years ago, and then with clock accuracy - because it had to be signed at 16:23 p.m. - did not, in our view, play that role. For us Hungarians, for all of us, it is a national tragedy, whether we live in the motherland or anywhere in the world, living pain, as a historian I can say: an unjust peace. However, if we try to step out of the subjective circle and ask whether, if we do not look at it from our own perspective, this peace will change, will it change its assessment, the Trianon peace process, honourable Members and Members, if we look at long processes, it has given rise to centuries of European tradition. The European tradition is the practice of centuries and centuries ago; those who consciously thought, wanted, wrote, and then put into practice the creation of modern Europe - it is no coincidence that one of the central halls in the centre of the European Union bears the name of one of these great thinkers, Justus Lipsius, or even the father of international law, Hugo Grotius, who first described how it is worth and how to make lasting peace - drew attention to a different kind of practice. [[13.20]] There are two ways to make peace in Europe. One is the vae victis-based peace, when the winner humiliates the defeated, symbolically and in substance; not only does he exercise his right to win, but in the long term he also separates the defeated from the whole system he has created. And there's another one - the 17th. This is what the founders suggested in the creation of modern Europe in the century when the winner tries not to humiliate the loser. They said to make it part of the system, give it space, make it interested in maintaining peace and strengthening peace. The fact of the matter is that Article 17 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: When the great conflict called World War I was closed for three decades, it was first used and lasting. About a century before Trianon, another great European world burn, the Napoleonic wars, were similarly closed, the loser not humiliated, but integrated into the system. After a century, Trianon has broken this tradition, so it must be said, regardless of whether someone sees it as a result of a historical process or not, it is a bad and ill-quality peace. At the same time, it must be understood and understood that, in our view, the idea and content of Hungarians and Europeans are connected. We can move the country and the nation forward if we want to shape, shape, but in any case we want to form and shape Europe and the community that we call the European Union today. Therefore, 98 years after Trianon, after an unfair and ill-quality peace, it is worth thinking together as a proud Hungarian and proud European about the future. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-06-04-2	State Secretary Potápi has applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, On the afternoon of June 4, 1920, the Trianon Peace Dictate was signed. On the Hungarian side, Ágos Benárd, Head of Delegation, Alfréd Drasche-Lázár, signed the peace treaty, which came before Parliament in November 1920, and was then put into law. There was no representative in the Hungarian National Assembly who did not feel the peace treaty to be deeply unfair. The speakers explained why it is impossible to accept the conditions imposed by the great powers on Hungary, why it is unimaginable to accept that two thirds of the country's territory and three fifths of its population and one third of the Hungarian nation will be transferred to neighbouring states. In response to bitter voices, Prime Minister Paul Teleki said: "I don't think we should stand here hopelessly. . This nation has vitality. This nation wants to live (...). I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We Hungarians have learned during the stormy centuries of history that our survival depends not on the circumstances, but on how much power we have, how much life force we have. Sándor Reményik's lines tell and describe: å They left behind a small country, we have nothing here. We have nothing left but to think about them sometimes. However, eight years ago, we thought that we should look not only at the losses but also at the existing resources, from which we can re-energise, from which we can be renewed, and from which we can build, from which we can grow. Therefore, the law on witnessing for national cohesion was submitted to Parliament eight years ago by two fellow Members, László Kövér and Zsolt Semjén, and adopted by Parliament on 31 May. Fidesz, KDNP and Jobbik's faction supported it, 55 of the MSZP did not press the button, and 12 of the LMP were staying. Thank you very much, Mr President, but I must note that Mr President did not accept this bill, nor did he vote on the Double Citizenship Act. I believe that the change of government in 2010 was not a simple change of government, but a radical change in national policy. Between 2010 and 2014, we have established a framework that still operates as a framework for national policy. The framework consists primarily of laws of symbolic importance, whether it is the day of national integration, whether it is about dual citizenship, our new constitution, the Fundamental Law, or the fact that it has been granted to Hungarians beyond the borders to be able to give a full voice to the Hungarian political life, as it has the right to vote. Based on this national policy, we have been able to start a policy of support over the last four years, which, thanks to support policy, has started helping to thrive in the Carpathian Basin. We have gained tenfold of our support, cultural, educational and religious support in recent years, as the last year of the MSZP spent HUF 9.1 billion on this, and we have been able to spend about 100 billion in the last year; and in addition, economic development programmes that have raised support for national policy to a much higher level have been launched. I think that both we Hungarians and Hungarian communities across the border can be proud of the Hungarian government, be proud of Hungary, and we can all be proud of our successes in recent years. The opposition, please. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that, when it comes to national policy over the next four years, they will always support common, united desires. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-4	Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader, DK, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2018-06-04-5	Dear Parliament, As opposition politician, leader of a party that still thinks that the election of about two months ago was neither free nor fair, obviously either you or our constituents ask, "Well, okay, then we will do wonders in such a parliament." There is no doubt that about what I think about this election - you know it pretty much, or you know what I think about it - there is no doubt that about 2.5 million people voted for the governing parties. That's a lot. [[13.30]] This is not little, even if a little more people voted that it or this government should not continue its work; if you will, they wished this government to hell. From Jobbik to Dialogue, the voters behind them, obviously including the voters of the Democratic Coalition, must be represented at the same time. It must be said that they are thinking in a different kind of Hungary. We with these people behind our backs - that is the most important thing I would like to say to you now - do not wish to participate in the war that your government and your prime minister have been conducting over the years, on which you have tied your entire policy. This is his war, not our war. I think this war is unfounded, full of lies, misdirection, in a sense a national wraith. Make no mistake, not because I do not think that one of the biggest challenges of the past period is the flood of refugees we have encountered in recent years. Yes, you can. It's a challenge. But I do know that what the war logic is based on is not true. I do not know any significant Hungarian politician who would like to welcome everyone in Hungary. I can't! I do not know of an international institution that would oblige Hungary to install crowds. I don't know you! And I definitely don't know anyone who wants to take away the right from Hungary to decide for themselves who to give a new home to and to whom not - because it is the truth. But there's something more important than that. It is clear that this war consumes the country's energy to talk about what stands before the country. I don't know how you see this world, and in many ways I see a series of unpredictable changes, from robotics to genetic engineering, which will fundamentally change our lives and our children's lives, and we won't talk about it with each other. War logic dominates the Hungarian public speech, and this war logic consumes the power of the nation instead of being intelligent, intelligent, ad-absurdum, with scientific basis, preparing for what will happen to this country in this new world, because it will not be like it was yesterday. The energy of this government is tied to the present and the past, and from tomorrow, it's like it doesn't understand anything. And, well, what is denial, as a representative of a party that has historically believed and supported the idea of the European United States, I am appalled by the fact that today's leaders of Hungary do not want to respond to such a challenge together with the leaders or nations of the other nations of Europe, and even risk endangering the historical achievement that we have achieved in becoming part of the European community. If I want to fight and DK wants to fight, there's plenty to fight here. I'm not arguing, but I'm saying that there's a miserable line of people living in, that talented children are such a shame! They can't go to college today as they did 30-40 years ago; it was easier to get to ad absurdum for today's Prime Minister or for me. If we lived now, whether he or I, I don't think we could go to college. That it is not possible to heal with honor, that it is not enough to pay, that it is necessary to rub against those in power if you want to succeed - so this is another Hungary! I suggest to ourselves - we will represent this - that we build a fair policy building the future instead of war logic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-04-6	Member István Szávay also applied for a speech before the agenda... [[For signal:]] The government wants to respond. Who wants to respond? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-06-04-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not quite sure if I need to check in or not. I made the mistake of not checking in, but obviously not a big mistake, because I don't know what Ferenc Gyurcsány was trying to say. But what is surprising is that your commemoration of the opposition and the government after the almost monotonous commemoration of the unity of the nation on 4 June, the 98th anniversary, and, if you will, eight years ago on the day of national integration, is that of the former Prime Minister who, in November 2004, terminated the Hungarian Permanent Conference on Vengeance, and then a week later, many of us sat here in Parliament, when the Hungarian representative's organization from the last Hungarian Permanent Conference across the 13 borders came here and told them why dual citizenship is important to them, and why I would like to ask Parliament why we should not take this issue out on the street in the form of a referendum. Then the Hungarian Prime Minister, sitting behind me and speaking earlier, and his name was Ferenc Gyurcsány, said that he did not. In fact, it's symbolic from the point of view, and it shows his attitude, which seems funny, but if we look to the bottom of things, I don't think it's funny, because after several years, the idea that he didn't mention the bones in Parliament, he didn't mention the scrambled pounds. I think it clearly defines his thinking and his party's thinking. It is a sign of the thinking that you have projected now, because you confessed and said it, and now you have spoken on behalf of the entire opposition, if you listen well, because Ferenc Gyurcsány said it through Jobbik to Dialogue, DK: they want to serve foreign interests here in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] Instead of Hungarian families, they want to represent the perceived or real rights of illegal immigrants against the decision of the Hungarian people. I think that this is absolutely insane for the Hungarian Parliament, but not only for the Hungarian Parliament, but also for the Hungarian people, who clearly told Ferenc Gyurcsány and his team where it belongs. After all, a month and a half ago, Fidesz-KDNP was given a two-thirds mandate to pursue the national, civic, Christian policy that we represented in the previous eight years. So I would like to suggest to Ferenc Gyurcsány that he try to taste this idea, try to understand that Hungary is the first for the government and the Parliament's horseshoe. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-8	I now give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, a member of the Jobbik faction, who was not yet Hungarian, does not know what pain is. to be submitted before the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I chose the lines of Jenő Dsida as the title of my speech, because Jobbik sees it as one of the most tragic and painful dates in Hungarian history on 4 June 1920. On that day, after the losing world war with huge blood sacrifices, our insatiable neighbours, the short-sighted great powers, and who knows what kind of backsliding forces have crushed historic Hungary. Contrary to public opinion, not two thirds of our territory, but exactly 72 percent of our territory were taken from us, 3.3 million Hungarians and one third of our nation were placed under foreign rule. Indeed, we Hungarians have concrete experience of the consequences of the mass introduction of foreign peoples, who have suffered an unprecedented loss of blood as a protective shield of Christianity, but in many cases, because of the narrowness of our own political and economic elites, have come to our country to claim the land where their grandfathers fleeing from Turkey settled and received protection. Many ask why this is to be addressed, since it was almost a century ago. Because many people still tend to forget that the consequences of Trianon still live with us today and determine our fate, because every fourth to fifth Hungarian child is still their parents in our torn areas. It must therefore be remembered and reminded. That is why it was an important step to adopt a day of national solidarity, even if we, the bettermen, believe that it would not be a day to celebrate, but rather to remember. [[13.40]] This is why, today, my fellow Member Gergely Farkas and I are resubmiting our proposal for a decision to begin preparations for the wild celebration of the neighbouring countries as we approach the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Trianon peace dictatorship, and to confront our truth with their lies here at home and at international level. Unfortunately, our proposal was swept down by the pro-government majority by the fact that they came up with a proposal of their own last October, but it has not happened since then. Once again, we would like to draw attention to the importance of this case, since it is only a few months away, and we will arrive at the 100th anniversary of the first stages of the events leading to Trianon, such as the establishment of a government of Mihály Károlyi, a government minister of war, who did not want to see more soldiers when all our neighbours were about to use weapons to break as much of the powerless body of Hungary as possible. But soon there is also the centenary of National Assemblys declaring separation, St. Martin, Novi Sad and Gyulafehérvár. Ladies and gentlemen, A very important milestone in the fight for the rights of Hungarian national communities is one and a quarter million European signatures collected for the Minority Safe Pack. However, this in itself is not an important step towards autonomy, but an extension of rights and guaranteeing certain linguistic and ethnic rights. The sublime principle of the people's right to self-determination, to which the great powers have dismembered our historic country, is in fact one of the greatest lies of international law. In 1920 we Hungarians did not have the right to self-determination, and to this day it does not. There are no international guarantees for this, and in many cases there is no intention. We will have to fight autonomy ourselves so that well-functioning models such as South Tyrol or the autonomy of the Åland Islands can bring peace among the peoples living together in Central Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the change of regime, all governments have had failures in this area, including post-2010. Jobbik's position on autonomy, since it was founded, is that blocks have territorial autonomy and sporadics have cultural autonomy. That's what the Fidesz says anyway, but mostly they only do it at home. We believe that, to this end, every stone must be moved and not only communicated inwards in Hungary in this matter. The statement by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén should have been taken out and even taken to the bilateral and international scene. What's due to others is due to us, and we totally agree with that. Let us therefore continue to fight for freedom in the EU, for example for the sake of autonomy of the Szekler. We know what party preferences are like, what party preferences are there for Hungarians abroad, but this has never been a party political issue for us. Jobbik believes that a stronger consensus is needed to support autonomy struggles, but also in general the issues of Hungarians living in our torn areas. It's not up to us, Mr. Secretary, I promise. There is a need for a stronger consensus not only to express this, but there are obviously no fundamental debates among the people sitting here, apart from Ferenc Gyurcsány's hating and anti-Hungarian party. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] As opponents, we wish to be constructive leaders of Hungarian national policy in the next term. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-06-04-10	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As the Member pointed out, today we are celebrating the day of national solidarity, which was otherwise enshrined in the law of the Parliament in 2010. This day draws our attention to the fact that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. This principle is already enshrined in the Fundamental Law and was the basis for many government measures. For example, our fellow nations across the border can participate in our most important decisions, and their high participation in the April election also proves that they are using this option, regardless of whether Ferenc Gyurcsány has taken that right away from them. The amount of subsidies granted to Hungarians abroad, you did not mention this, you increased tenfold compared to 2010, and this now includes targeted economic development aid. The Unlimited! programme has also been running for some time, which is a targeted support for students and students living in Hungary who want to organize a class trip across the border. On December 5, 2004, that night, many of us could remember that day, we didn't think that the time would come, that the day could come when more than 1 million Hungarians from abroad took the oath of citizenship, and it was a great pride that this was achieved by December last year. So we have a chance to reunite what XX does. I've been torn apart by the company. You have a strange feeling when you listen to the previous speeches. We feel like there's some kind of agreement on national integration. But the thing is, the actions over the past few years have shown something else. It is not good to say this on the day of national cohesion, but it is the case that the opposition has not been able to count on much in national politics in recent years. And I am not only thinking of what I have already referred to here, that Ferenc Gyurcsány would have withdrawn the right to vote from the Hungarians from abroad even during the last election campaign, thus continuing the anti-Hungarian policy, but also that Jobbik has been caught up in many cases with this policy, due to all kinds of internal political considerations. For example, Gábor Vona did not vote in favour of the Double Citizenship Act, and if we recall it correctly, neither did their current group leader. He mentioned the minority protection initiative, although he mentioned the English name, Jobbik did not organizely join the collection of signatures, regardless of whether it was signed individually. But he did not provide organizational assistance of a nature that many otherwise did. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] They could have. And what's even more scandalous... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And even more scandalous, there was no consequence within the Jobbik when one of their leaders compared Hungarians across the border to North American Indians, who could be bought with a handful of glass beads. [[György Balla: That's right.]] That's what he said, and it didn't have any consequences. And that's not the only example that Jobbik has been off the national road lately. However, many would expect a national-based politicalization from the party that defined itself as a right-wing, conservative and national party when it was founded. But it's been spectacularly severed lately. In 2003, many of you may remember that, yet you are determined to be a force that takes on the national idea and strong right-wingness. In contrast, in many cases in recent times we have felt that they are closer to the SZDSZ than to this idea. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] The fact that they have strayed from the road is also clear, because there is a price to pay for not being in favour of national affairs at defining moments. So the government didn't support...
u2018-06-04-12	The excitement, gentlemen, is unreasonable.
u2018-06-04-13	And it is no coincidence that, in these days, as a result, the good news is about exclusions, divisions, and tense conventions. And allow me to bring one thing up here. Yet it is a qualifying circumstance that Gábor Vona, who has brought all this together for you, has resigned, does not take responsibility and tries to push it on you, with all its financial, moral and legal consequences. You probably have the same opinion when the cameras are off. Allow me to say that there is a way out of this situation, and that is to re-examine the interests of the country. At a time when you will have every opportunity to do so, I would like to respond to what you have said. Because we need every Member, every political party that puts the country's security, the protection of sovereignty and, in this context, the country's continued growth on its flag. For such a policy, it also needs to be independent, because it is not yet guaranteed at this time. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So it is up to you to choose the national path - the option is given. We wish that they have the power to renew, and we also wish that this does not happen on the left. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-14	I would like to draw the attention of representatives of both sides, at the beginning of the cycle, to put themselves in the position of the other. Imagine how patient you must listen to your own speech on the other side. I ask you to accept each other's positions and to listen to the Secretary of State's reply with the same patience that we have listened to yours. And he also wishes to make a request for the future, and here I am not going to comment on the unparalleled yelling that would simply be disrespectful to any of the Members; indeed, in any bar they would be, let alone in Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, Then I give the floor to Szabó Timea, who will talk about current affairs on behalf of his PM faction. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the day of national integration, we are talking about another very important aspect of national cohesion, namely the number of drastically decreasing births, the fact that fewer Hungarians live in Hungary. [[13.50]] Maybe I'm not surprised that the demographic situation is affecting me right now, to be exact, let's say. two weeks from now, hopefully, but me and many millions of other Hungarian women will approach this whole issue in a very different way than you do. As long as we see what lies behind non-births, unfortunately you or the cabaret level approach this issue - for example, the full - parenting sentences of Szilárd Németh or the unconventional thoughts of Mr. Speaker of the House - or you are making unspeakable statements about women and childbearing. Let's take a look at what we're talking about for a second, by the way. According to KSH, the number of live births decreased by 5.3 percent in March this year compared to the previous year, and deaths increased by 12 percent. The number of births remains below the pre-crisis level in 2008. How is that possible? How is it possible that, after eight years of government where you and Viktor Orbán are constantly saying how much they have done for families, the situation is so disastrous? The failure of your governance in this area is quite clear, and Viktor Orbán himself acknowledged this when he suddenly decided to agree with us. The only problem is that you and Viktor Orbán have no idea how to deal with women; women and men, by the way, because birth and childbirth are the only decisions of the woman in the rarest case. It's usually at least two people's decisions. Of course, we know about Viktor Orbán that he should not look at what he says, but what he is doing. And what did you do, for example, three days ago? At the plenary session of the European Parliament, a report on ensuring the physical and psychological health of women, economic and social rights and the promotion of women's participation was discussed. While Fidesz, you and the government are talking about childbearing, their representatives in Europe have voted against this proposal for the sixth time in the European Parliament. But it also appeared last week that, at any moment, a mother in Tiszaújváros, who lost her hand on the job because of a bad machine, could not pay her credit and would be evicted. Unfortunately, his case is not unique. Every day, we hear about cases where single mothers with multiple children are evicted because you do not help them. Every day, we hear cases where mothers at home with their babies are fired from their jobs - their supposedly protected jobs - not because they say they don't need you, but because they somehow lose that job at work. But you don't want to make a living, you don't want to solve housing, you want to create a family-policy research facility, or you want to cut the mortgage debt from the third child. From the third child, when no second child is born in this country! You know, fellow Members, there are children born, children born in the country where it is good to live. [[Interview from Fidesz: Western Europe?]] Where it is not good to live, children are not born; unfortunately - it is possible to rattle, but the numbers show this. The decreasing birth rate shows this, and this is also shown by the extensive emigration data. 600 thousand people, 600,000 adults of childbearing age, have left Hungary abroad because they do not see the possibilities of having children or the means of living at home. Do you know where children are now born in Europe? Where's the birth rate rising? Indeed, as has been said here: Sweden, France, Ireland, Denmark - where it is good to live. So what, Mr. Secretary? The thing is, those governments know what to do, and you don't. Today is the day of national inclusion, my fellow Members, which also means that we will finally make Hungary a liveable place to have a good child; a place where a 40-year-old couple will finally raise the family allowance frozen for 10 years, where, not even after 20 years, a post-board credit wiper is to be moaned, where social and nursery workers will not bring home 100,000 forints, where a mother, who has taken her injured child alone, will not starve to death from 60,000 forints, but appreciate the fact that she will sacrifice her life for her child, where women can actually work part-time, or where you will finally ratify the international agreement on violence against women. For the last eight years, your family policy has failed. Show me that you really care about national solidarity, the birth of children. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-16	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-17	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, I wish you and your baby good health, and I trust that you will be able to have a happy family life for a long time. But let me not agree with what you said about the government's family policy. And it's not just me, it's the voters' choice. We know that it is quite difficult for you to process the results of the election, the failure of your election, but the government has always - from 1998 to 2002 and since 2010 - the most important issue is the issue of Hungarian families, the promotion of childbearing. And indeed, in the previous elections, this kind of policy, the results of which, all of its assets have been confirmed by the entrepreneurs... the voters. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: National Entrepreneurs.]] Entrepreneurs too, honourable Members and gentlemen, because through the action plan for the protection of jobs - you are smiling nicely at this - we have been able to give tens of thousands of mothers their jobs back by giving entrepreneurs a huge allowance if they re-employ the mother who is raising a child. This is why the employment rate in Hungary is record high, because it is in the interests of entrepreneurs to employ mothers as well, and by the way - back to my main idea - the Hungarian electorate also decided that they would like this direction to continue in Hungarian demographics and in Hungarian family politics. And that is very slowly, but it brings its results, as you know, Madam honourable Member, that the so-called fertility rate, which is what science calls it, is more likely to say that the proportion of children per child of one child's age or couple after the low point in 2010, when it was around 1.1, is now 1.5. It rises nicely up, because families feel that they can now have children more safely than they could have done before 2010. We have seen during all left-wing governments, either during the Horn government or during the later Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai Cabinet, that if it had to be pressed, families were the first to be squeezed during left-wing governments or during Balliberal governments. If money had to be taken from somewhere, then the third year child was taken or the family tax relief was taken even after the first and second children, and the amount of aid was still to be classified. And we have tried to use every surplus in Hungary for the benefit of families. For this reason, it is not HUF 1000 billion that can be used as a subsidy and a discount for families in the budget this year, but HUF 2000 billion, as we have doubled the support of families within the budget. And today, when there's a family home discount, a family is much more realistic about creating their own family home than when it wasn't, or the parties you supported, with whom they started on a list and campaigned together, even took away the Socpol. Family-type tax relief strengthens the family community and has also turned it into an economic community. Thus, if people have an average income in Hungary and raise three children, they pay neither taxes nor contributions. The news is not about what tax increases are, as before, but about the fact that net and gross wages are the same in these cases. With regard to the assistance of children in difficulty, honourable Member, if you would pay attention, I would be honoured, the number of children's welfare centres has been quadrupled at national level. Families, parents, can now turn to four times as many children's welfare centers if the child needs any help. You talked about safe houses and stuff. You know, honourable Member, we use EU funds to help mothers or help parents and children in distress. It could have been spent on this before 2010, only then on metro 4 so that it could be lured away or stolen as much as possible. We are already using this for socially beneficial purposes. But I could also mention the Women's 40, which was not supported by any opposition representatives, and no one supported it. You talk about women's opportunities, women's dignity, women's rights. There would have been a vote right at the beginning of the term when opposition representatives could have voted for women - they did not. The small, small party logic [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Don't talk about petty behavior.]] completely override your commitment to women with quotes, and if you had to choose to vote against the government or against women, then it was always more important to the government than to vote in favour of women. In addition, in recent years, the government has raised family allowances from 29 to 79 billion forints, either by extending school meals or by extending them from 29 to 79 billion forints, or by making school textbook packages free for more than one million students, it has raised family allowances to the family support area, so not only for children in need, but for everyone who is having children in Hungary, there is now much more support. [[14.00]] We want to pursue this policy, as has been the case so far, every year we want to increase support for families. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] you will also see this in the budget law; we hope you will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-18	Bernadett Szél, the leader of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:.Renewed Hungary is surely the most livable country in the European Union. It's an address. She's the head of the show. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today, I think it is particularly important to say in this House that belonging to the nation cannot be taken from anyone for political reasons. I highly recommend this to the honourable government parties. The opposition and opposition parties, opposition voters, cannot be denied the right to belong to the nation. Please respect that, even if your political temper tells you the opposite. We are at the beginning of the 2018-2022 cycle, and this is most likely to be known by the fact that at this time the prime ministers tend to outline different broad concepts, pre-order 20-30 years of time, priorities and targets, so that as this date approaches, they can forget what they have promised the voters what they promised Hungary. I would like to point out that, outside the walls of Parliament, people are not usually planning for four years. The students are there, they usually plan until the end of their studies. There are the workers who plan until the end of the probation period, the workers, but there are the households that can plan very often until the end of the month, and there are the families who, if they have children, make a life-long decision. I think that there are some decisions that need to be made under good conditions, and that you, in the next four years, should be most concerned about how these conditions can be produced. I have little optimism about what you're up to. However, I would like to say that we, the Greens, are very different from the old politicians that you belong to, we are not set up for four years of change management, we are not prioritising, we are not making decisions like this. For the past eight years, we have said the same thing as I am saying now, and we will continue to say it, because the world is going in exactly the same direction that ecopolitics predicted and predicted in the 1960s and 1970s. CHAPTER XXI The challenges of the century are right in front of us, and we need to solve them. CHAPTER XX However, these can only be exacerbated and mistreated by the instruments of the 20th century. You have used words like innovation and sustainability because you have learned those words. I'm sure they think it's something chic or cool, but apparently they can't fill it with content. One of the proofs of this is that they are able to put the words "Paks II." and "Clean Energy" in the same sentence, even though everyone who is aware of sustainability is the 21st. In the century, he knows that nuclear energy has a long beginning, a long end, and what happens between it, we are all in God's hands. We also know that Putin's influence in this country is neither desirable nor XXI. It's from the century. Show me another country outside China, where nuclear power is XXI. They think it's a hundredth-century solution! And I will show you the Hungarian people who are already installing solar panels in their own house, despite the fact that you are doing everything you can to make things difficult for these people. There is the high added value, and there is the high wage you like to talk about, while doing the opposite, beating up Hungarian education, practically managing public education from the Industry Chamber for eight years. They drive away one of Hungary's best universities, CEU, and apparently they take away everything from children that they need to have a good education. Last week's news is that of all the applicants, Hungarian students were admitted to Cambridge in the highest proportion, most students - one in two - now want to go abroad, because they see Hungary as unlivable for their future. The fact is that your economic policy is a complete dead end, it is not embedded in the line of companies you have created in the Hungarian economy. Where's the Ganz? Where is the Hungarian bus production? Where's the electric industry? But where is the Hungarian electric car production? - I could ask you. Your oligarchs are not competitive at all, they are the contributions hunters who hang on to the trinkets of the Hungarian state, they are the ones who will be supported by taxpayers' money, and they are the ones who do not stand in any competitive ranking. This brings us to the most serious problem, demography, i.e. emigration. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fact is that more and more women of childbearing potential live abroad in Hungary, and that is where the children who should have their place at home were born. It is clear that these children born abroad will come home to Hungary in a very small proportion. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If your past eight years had been successful, all these children would have been born in Hungary. We build a country, we want a country, we work for a country where the state gives enough to many, and it doesn't give a lot to a few. Hungary will be strong, Hungary will be successful, Hungary will be a community of fate when all members of the Hungarian nation are able to help each other in all areas, and you will not dig trenches, and on the day of national integration, for example, will not deny the opposition's membership of the nation, and not their old voting behaviour. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They are being revolved, but we say that we are all proud Hungarians, across borders and borders. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-20	Once again, Rétvári Bence has the responsibility to answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, In fact, I could say four words that contradict each of them from your first word to your last word, these four words: "Roby!" Robbie! Robbie! Robbie! Because I believe that all the beautiful visions that you have painted, what a beautiful picture the LMP has about the future, and what the LMP's everyday policy is, I think these four words describe it well. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We'd be the happiest of all, obviously, if everyone in the nation felt part of it. As you have seen, Congressman Hiller was applauded on the pro-government side because he had a speech that was worthy of this day of the nation. But, for example, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] For example, in their own campaign, you signed the Ron Werbert, whose name is associated with the 23 million Romanians rejecting the cross-border campaign. Not to mention that one of your congressmen says he gave you advice for free, the other says it's for money; a leaked document says it's for money, but you didn't pay for it, so it could be a lawsuit between LMP and Ron Werber. What you can see is that when you talk about national cohesion and you rely on Ron Werber's advice, these two don't work. These two are incompatible, since, to say the least, he did not serve the unity of the nation. But the fact that the LMP has strayed from the path with which it entered Parliament is not my say, is enough to quote the then president, the then faction leader, Andras Schiffer, who himself left the LMP, because he believes that the LMP has abandoned all the values for which he created the LMP. He said, "Some things aren't for sale." This slogan has since disappeared into oblivion in the LMP. Ladies and Gentlemen, Your predecessor holds a mirror like that, and he's exiting the LMP faction in a demonstrative way. He says, and here, with your enthusiastic support, that the LMP can no longer be distinguished from the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK. [[Noise, clarity.]] They're also leaving LMP because he and others are leaving LMP, because I haven't discovered a vision in the direction that the current LMP represents. You talked about long-term plans and responsibility, and your predecessor says that you can't see any vision from the LMP program, but your former colleague, Róbert Sallai Benedek - nicknamed. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] - and all he said was that the LMP may only be held together by existential interests in the same direction at the moment, not the principles, not the goals, just the momentary existential situation. So planning for the longer term, I think, in this respect, is not really an advantage of the LMP, at least consistency. That is just a foam on the cake, which you have been working with our fellow Member, Ákos Hadházy - not yet, but perhaps again from this evening, who has simply communicated you, said that a decision will be taken that has a communist spirit, and therefore he will also bring an appeal to the party in contrast. But we could list the well-known people, the people who have been listed in the scientific field, who are leaving the LMP. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Does he read the whole Bors?]] For example, Péter Róna said about you: the intellectual content is empty of the May Other from Politics, the party has become completely shallow, the former base Democratic Party has been the victim of a concentration of power, and there is nothing more about party life than the proceedings against party members. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and So this is the situation, the position from which you ask the government for long-term plans. [[Márta Demeter: How will the government be?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Here we have tried to create a stable and safe environment for all Hungarians in recent years. You mentioned family policy. The most spurious measures on families have therefore been laid down in a two-thirds law, precisely so that every family, when thinking about its future, should not be exposed to the different winds of power that vary every four years, as this, let us say, during the Medgyessy government, unfortunately felt on the skin of families, but should be a stable, long-term legal environment that guarantees the future of Hungarian families. [[14.10]] That is how we are with the Hungarian industry, honourable Member, because we strive to have as much of them assembled in Hungary as possible if we buy ambulances. We are all trying to get Hungarian bus production and Hungarian railway production back on their feet. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: You just played it for the Russians!]] Not as you mentioned in a few words, but with real measures. [[Gergely Harvesto: Make steam also!]] That's why I'm sure it's really a sustainable... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: 12 more seconds!]] I see what I'm saying hurts you, Your Honour. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I want to clap my hands!]] Obviously, your own fellow parties were most painful, honourable Member, but we will still have time in Parliament for the next four years to discuss these issues a lot. Thank you very much. [[Márta Demeter: We expect even more performance from ourselves! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2018-06-04-22	On behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, its leader, Mr.Péter Harrach, asked for the opportunity to comment before the agenda: what is the essence of Christian democracy? It's an address. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-06-04-23	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, I also remember the painful Trianon peace dictate. This commemoration is linked to the sentence that has already been said here in Parliament today. This nation wants to live, and this connection is the day of national integration. So this day is not only a day of painful commemoration, but also a day of celebration of belonging togetherness. Allow me to add one more thought: let me congratulate Szabó Timea, not so much on her speech, but on her condition. I wish you a healthy child and a happy family life. [[Szabó Timea: Thank you. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] All parties in the Hungarian Parliament are committed to democracy. This commitment can feed on three directions: the approach to liberal democracy, Christian democracy and social democracy. We see that the approach called liberal democracy is in crisis. This crisis is of an anthropological nature in the first place, so it is a world-view problem, but it also has social policy implications. Since the government envisages the next period in a Christian Democratic view, perhaps it is worth saying a few words about what Christian democracy means. We are primarily based on the image of Christian people and society, and, if I may, I would like to draw attention to two important pillars, which these remaining three minutes allow. One is that we look at the whole human being, and not only are we taking out certain aspects of human rights, and we are absoluteizing it, because that is what is characteristic of the representatives of liberal democracy today. We look at human rights with responsibility, or, if you will, with duties. This is how our image of man becomes complete, and if there is something to be drawn from it now, let me mention the government's intention to mention the work-based economy and the work-based society. For work is not only an opportunity, but also a responsibility for man, in this sense our rights and obligations are linked to our responsibility. Therefore, we can safely build our future on a work-based society and economy. [[László Varju: Szarvashiba!]] The next pillar of this Christian Democratic interpretation is what follows from our image of man, and this is the humanity of a social being. When people are social, communities are important. These communities are the other pillar of our understanding of democracy, which, of course, begins with the family we are talking about today as the smallest community, continues with the church and civil communities, of course I am thinking of the real civil communities, and continues with the community of the nation as a whole, which is getting a special topicality today. And why this Christian Democratic interpretation is needed in Hungary today is obvious: for the crisis we see in Western Europe. As I said, this crisis is rooted in anthropology, i.e. the misinterpretation and absoluteization of human rights, and it contains phenomena that can be avoided here. If I may, I would like to quote a few of these points on what this crisis in the Western world means today. First of all, it means that this image of man is distorted, that is to say, an attempt contrary to human nature that is contrary to normal human relations, marriage and family image. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they don't correspond to human nature. It could be classified for a long time. We'll get another chance. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-24	Once again, I give the floor to Benedict of Retirement. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Indeed, when we have to look again at the foundations of European civilisation, because because of the immigration crisis, Europe must rediscover or discover its own identity, and it will be original to return to the original, or disappear, as many other civilizations in history, it is important to clarify exactly what liberals, left-wing or Christian democrats, national-minded people think about it. We can see that, in recent generations, liberalism has largely devoured the left in Europe and that the values of social democrats have been dominated or driven out by liberal values. For this reason, it is a balliberal or ultraliberal thinking, which is facing national and Christian democratic thinking not only in Hungary, but in all countries of Europe. From choice to choice - most recently in the Italian elections - how people in more and more countries in Europe want to kick the old Balliberian elites in the butt and instead implement a national, Christian-democratic policy in more and more countries in Europe. But we can also see that this will not happen overnight and not as clearly as it has happened in Hungary in recent years. But Hungary has a government that stands up for national interests, which dares to defy the elite possessing power, even if it is not visible, even if it exists only as a phantom, and it can only be seen from the various signs in which it operates. Hungary has opposed it, so every week, different infringement, monitoring or similar procedures are launched against Hungary to try to deter all other similar national parties in Europe before the elections to the European Parliament, so that it does not dare to take the Hungarian path, because it receives the same procedures from Brussels. So, if we look at the Christian Democratic foundations, we stand on the basis of a Christian Democrat, and we look at what is against it on the Balliberal side, then, while the idea of open society is the one that dominates Western European thinking most, we have a kind of social idea. Our community society sees a connection between identity and the country of origin, nationality, religion, cultural community. We all see this as a connecting link, while liberal followers of the idea of open society see only the basis for discrimination, that it is therefore possible to discriminate. They view the individual as having a continuous struggle with the world, having a continuous struggle with power and other people, because for liberal philosophers of open society, everyone is a potential infringer. They all think he's interested in violating someone's right to discriminate against them. On the other hand, we included the term freedom and responsibility in the Fundamental Law, not because we thought so, but because, in the national consultation, more than 90 percent of the overwhelming majority of people said that they did not want an old liberal basic law, which speaks only of rights, but of a more conservative, Christian Democratic fundamental law, which speaks of the balance of rights and obligations, which is why our Fundamental Law is also about freedom and responsibility. Therefore, we do not see a potential infringer in other people, but a part of a community. Liberals and Balliberians only believe in state redistribution, which is also seen in various international statements, while we believe in the activation of people. This is also seen from our achievements, because many more people, now 750,000 more people are working, and so we have managed to combat poverty, not only with the means of redistribution, but also with the instruments of the Christian Democratic Activation. The followers of open society view national culture as a consumer product as a replaceable product. [[14.20]] And we, Christian Democrats, believe that in community society culture is indeed a spiritual root, a link in which we grow up, which determines our lives, which makes us who we are. Without it, if it was lost, we'd be lost ourselves. That is why mother tongue, motherland and national culture are important to us. The followers of open society, the liberals, deny common morality, do not believe that there can be a common moral standard, that everyone can only judge themselves. We believe that there are community values in community society. Therefore, we believe not only in institutions but also in common morality. Followers of open society, liberals and left-wingers believe that if there is a social problem, they will create an institution to solve the problem. And we believe that, together with the common morals of society, we must solve these problems by means of state resources. They don't believe in statesmen, they believe in celebrities who can be done, measured and replaced, and consumed like everything else in consumer society. We also believe in individuals and the moral authority of persons. We think the man and the woman are complementary, they think one wants to suppress the other. They see a dictatorship in order, we see a hierarchy in order, which can guarantee people's freedom. They believe that consumption is the only way to create a community, but it's a dead end, because those who don't have enough money will be left behind in consumption in this case. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That is why we believe in the Christian Democratic vision, because it is the 21st century. One of the biggest problems of the century, the loneliness of people and the denial of national values, can be prevented by Christian democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-26	Dear House, The last among the speeches before the agenda will be Mr Máté Kocsis, leader of the Group, on the part of Fidesz, on current matters. He'll say what he has to say with a title. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, It is good to see, in principle, that a national policy has received majority support in the third parliamentary elections, which does not devalue this spirit, this concept, but strengthens it. Moreover, it is good to see that many left-wing politicians are increasingly enjoying it; it is a pity that we had to govern it, and when they governed it, it was not such an important issue. But let us be glad that on this day the commemorations are not merely pro-government, and we express our hope that this day will also give us the opportunity to reach as much agreement as possible on other important national issues. The day of national solidarity and the anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, and remembering it, is not only a memory, but also an obligation for us to work on a daily basis, so although I have submitted my intention to speak before the agenda with the title of our current affairs, I could also immediately rename it to the title of our current obligations. Our current obligation, just learning from what happened 98 years ago, is to use all means for the protection of our country, for our national sovereignty, for our constitutional identity, to use all our resources to protect our country, to protect our future, to protect our security, to protect our Christian culture. That is why, my fellow Members, after listening to the final results of the elections from Ferenc Gyurcsány today, although he has debated this for several weeks, but he has already acknowledged it, I would add with so much clarification that not two and a half million people supported the governing parties, but 2.8 million people. It is true that these supporting votes include those who are indeed Hungarians across the border, and perhaps today is the day to thank them for holding on for nearly a hundred years, and we thank them for participating in the affairs of our common nation, if not by expressing their vote. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is the case, even if the debate before us is going to take place in the walls of Parliament and in the media space, but it is necessary to draw attention, fellow Members, to the fact that when we are talking about the culture and security of our country, our nation, we are thinking not only of the culture and security of our country within today's Hungarian borders, but also of the world around us. Let us consider this so much that it is not for the first time that we are emphasising that national cohesion is not merely a spiritual expression or expression of what we think of our Hungarian brothers across borders, but also of joint cooperation in many areas of life, in economy, culture, sport. Turning to the 2.8 million people and the 3.4 million people participating in the 2016 referendum who expressed their will in one direction, it is our duty - today, as I said - to give a special opportunity to stress this - to stand up for what these people stood for in such a large number. There has never been such a cooperation with a national cause in Hungary as it was in 2016, and there has never been such support after a political, harsh political campaign, after a sharp political debate, no one has been given such support as the ruling parties have now. That is why I believe that, in the debate on the legislative proposals on immigration, illegal immigration, the opposition will also need to consider the aspect that it stresses on its own day of national integration. By the way, without going into the content of the constitutional amendment and the Stop Soros legislative package, I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to the fact that, after today, we hope that the House will decide to put this on the agenda and we will begin its debate tomorrow, they will have the opportunity - I still trust in it, though many want to talk it out of it, but I always trust they will have the opportunity - to make the right decision in order to protect our national sovereignty and constitutional identity. It will be possible for those who threaten all of this, who, by the way, violate the sovereignty of the country, violate the safe future of Hungary and violate the Christian culture, at least endanger it, to act against it with rigour of the law. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That is why the government has submitted the tightened Stop Soros Act package, and I trust that it will benefit from support from the other side beyond the pro-government factions. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-28	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Group leader, you referred to the outcome of the elections in your speech. Allow me to say, in a slightly broader context, that if we look at the European elections, we see that it is almost everywhere the issue of national identity and security that dominates the agenda, and there is a reason for that. The Hungarian election was no exception. The Hungarians sent a clear message, sent a message that they expected the political forces at hand to protect national culture and strengthen Hungary's security. This requirement obliges the government, so while the opposition was occupied with itself, partly with its infighting, the government worked on two drafts, and you referred to this: one was the amendment of the Fundamental Law, and the second was the Stop Soros legislative package. The most important point of the constitutional amendment is to prohibit the introduction of a foreign population. It is therefore an amendment that would provide effective protection against resettlement quotas, and the actuality of this is that they want to finalise these plans now. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the end of last week, the European Parliament's main responsibility has also stated that a majority decision should be taken to push this plan forward, not with unanimity. So they want to make a decision above our heads, above the heads of the Visegrád countries and above the heads of Hungary. We're not gonna let that happen. That is why, among other things, the Fundamental Law needs to be amended. The importance of the other package of laws is that it would make the organisation of illegal immigration punishable, so it will be punishable if someone organises illegal migration and encourages circumvention of Hungarian law. Persons organising illegal immigration could therefore be kept away from the border. If you're wondering why an infamous speculator is the name giver of this package of laws, read your latest statement. It clearly states that legal immigration routes must be established for Europe. He would otherwise spend EUR 30 billion on this; and here is the point, and he opposes the Hungarian Prime Minister himself, and he resents the fact that the Hungarian Prime Minister stands up as a defender of Christian Europe for the interests of the country. And it is also irrelevant that it designates the EU institutions and political activists as the main political player, so it would override the national state framework. So the positions are clear, there are two totally opposite world views. Dear House, Hungary is not the only one fighting foreign intervention attempts and illegal immigration support groups, there are similar debates in Greece, Spain and Italy. So when we're fighting for transparency, for our safety, we need to know that we're not alone. [[14.30]] Not even because if we look at the European elections, there will be forces that reject the policy of open doors. So there are more and more people who believe that Europe is not a gateway, and if it is up to us, neither will Hungary. Dear House, Security as a key government goal is not only a physical but also a material goal, so we can all be proud that the Hungarian economy continues to perform well. Economic growth is around four percent, creating the basis for further job creation, tax reductions and additional wage increases. These objectives will also be reflected in the draft budget to be submitted. And it is no secret that our priority in the future is to strengthen support for families. The government is wondering how to further broaden the existing family support system. I too congratulate Mrs Timea Szabó, her child is born in a good place, not in a beautiful country, where we have to fight for a better life every day, there is much to do, but we have every opportunity to maintain our safety, and this is accompanied by ever-increasing prosperity. But once again, there is much more to be done. In the election campaign, we summarized what we have to say and our policy by saying that Hungary is our first, and this is not just an election slogan, but a principle that defines government policy in the long term. This principle will lead to future government decisions. Dear House, Europe is going through a tense, controversial period, and it is also possible that in the near future, economic crisis signs will be lined up in addition to the current migration crisis, and if that is the case, then all political forces are needed to stand up for the country's interests and the security of Hungary. Regardless of any internal political debate, we want all parliamentary parties to do this with a lot of strength, insight and good work. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-30	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2018-06-04-31	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; Márta Demeter, LMP; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Ágnes Vadai, DK; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; Bence Tordai, PM; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Csaba Hende, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Sándor Székely, DK; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik.
u2018-06-04-32	Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of State Secretarys to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2018-06-04-33	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. Mr Sándor Farkas, dr. Márton Örsöt Bitay, dr. Zsolt Feldman, Zsolt Kis Miklós, dr. András Rácz, Róbert Zsigó with effect from 22 May 2018 as State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Károly and Tibor Pogácsás with effect from 22 May 2018 as State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Dr. Bencét Rétvári, Péter Fekete, Attilát Fülöp, Dr. Anikó Nagy, Dr. Anikó, Dr. Pacsay-Tomassich Orsolyat, Dr. István Szabó, Katalin Éva Veresné Novák, Dr. Tamás Tamás Tamás Tamás Tamás Tamás Tamás Tamás Tamás Tömör and Jószter Bódsszter with effect from 22 May 2018, with effect from 1 July 2018 to the State of the State of the Ministry of Human Resources. Budapest, 7 May 2018 Sincerely: János Áder
u2018-06-04-34	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and the ladies and gentlemen, and wish you every success in your work. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits shall be decided on a proposal from the House Committee. Dear Parliament, First, we decide on proposals for a derogation from house rules. In derogation from the house rules, the House Committee initiates the Parliament to act as H/359 on the establishment of the Hungarian National Group of Interparlamental Union. In the course of the trial of the number one submission, it shall depart from the house rule in such a way that the proposal for a resolution is passed on to the parliamentary series without a separate decision; Paragraph 1 does not have to apply; the proposal amending the proposal for a decision and the Commission report should not be possible; the proposal for a decision should be adopted without discussion and on 4 June 2018. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/359/1. You can get to know him on the website. The vote will now take place. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has unanimously contributed 170 votes in favour to the departure from the house rules. Dear Parliament, The House Committee initiates the Parliament to adopt a derogation from house rules when negotiating legislative proposals and proposals for decisions by means of the Parliamentary Informatics System of Legislative Law-making - abridged by ParLex. The proposal for a derogation from the house rules was made by H/371. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has unanimously contributed, with 171 votes in favour, to a derogation from the house rules. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. [[For signal:]] Ms Bernadett Wind's plane gives me a point of order, so please, you have one minute for the congresswoman. [[14.40]]
u2018-06-04-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have the following question: there are vows on the agenda for today's sitting, the oaths of Krisztina Hohn and Olivio Cake. I'd like to ask you why these vows fail. Why couldn't the immunity committee ensure that their term of office was justified, and as it is on the agenda, the oaths can now take place here? On the other hand, I would like to ask whether we can expect a similar action in connection with the oath of Ákos Hadházy, or whether it will be kept in order at the scheduled time. My third question and my request is to clarify these issues in the House Committee. The congressmen would like to swear. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-36	Please, let's clear the questions on the House Committee. Dear Parliament, Coming up on the formation of the Hungarian National Group of Interparlamental Union... [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is not a procedure!]] The House Committee meeting will take place in accordance with the house rules, and then I will convene the House Committee, certainly not during the meeting. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Mr. President, please respond.]] You will have an explanation for your question, Congresswoman. You said we'd clear that up on the House Committee. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Is that okay with you?]] I gave in to your request, we'll clear it up on the House Committee. We can get back to work, if you'll excuse me. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett: I don't think it's okay!]] It is therefore up to the resolution of the proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union. Presentation by representatives from the Balla Mihály fideszes, Mónika Bartos fideszes, Zita Gurmai MSZP, János Latorcai KDNP, Ádám Steinmetz Jobbikos, Ágnes Vadai DK, Erzsébet Schmuck LMP, Timea Szabó Dialogue Group H/359. Available on the website. Deviation from the adopted house rules means that the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/359 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal for a resolution was adopted by 169 votes to none, with one abstention. The election of the notary of the Parliament follows, ladies and gentlemen. During the seven-party negotiations to prepare for the inaugural meeting, it was agreed that the KDNP Group would propose to fill this notary. At the initiative of Mr. Péter Harrach, the Speaker of the House - that's me, I'm sorry. [[Defiance.]] - S/419. He proposed that the Parliament elect István Simicskó as notary of the Parliament. An amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official without debate. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect István Simicskó as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Mr István Simicskó with 172 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear Parliament, The election of Commission officials and members will follow. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/418. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House unanimously adopted the personal proposal by 168 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now, at 2:44 p.m., we move on to interpellations, immediate questions, questions. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 121. István Hiller and Bertalan Tóth, Mr K/222. I rejected your written question No. 1 because the motion is not in the government's remit. Dear House, Peter Jakab, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister, saying: "The stolen money comes back, doesn't it? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance with responsibility and competence will respond to the interpellation. Congressman's got the floor.
u2018-06-04-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honestly, I'm a little freaked out, not because it's my first speech to Parliament, but because, God forbid, in front of so many criminals, I've never spoken in my life... [[Grumbles and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties: Ouch! It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-06-04-38	Congressman! Compared to your first comment, you've shown a striking lack of manners and stupidity, so either you moderate yourself...
u2018-06-04-39	[[The congressman's mic won't say. Pointing to the left:]] It is noticeable that such individuals... [[Moraj and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties, among other things: You have shown good...]]
u2018-06-04-40	Notice your microphone's not ringing.
u2018-06-04-41	[[The congressman's mic won't say.]] ...I think you thought that this was my problem...
u2018-06-04-42	Congressman! So I'd like to... [[Peter James shows time with his hand, as he says, "The Earth is spinning, time stands...]] Listen to me, Congressman. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Look the other way! Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Thank you. I would therefore like to draw your attention at your first speech to the fact that this is a parliament, a Parliament. After you are an elected Member, you must respect not only the dignity of the voters who sent you here - they certainly did not do this by mistake, but also the dignity of those Members and their voters who have also been sent to this Parliament with the same right as you. So please choose your words, because you're not in the pub with your good friends, but with your fellow Members, and you have to honor them and the voters behind them, okay? Otherwise, I'll cut you off just so you know what to expect. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches, your mic's gone! Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-43	Thank you very much for your lecture to Comrade Fat. Of course, if you don't have a shirt, don't take it personally. [[Moraj and interventions from the benches of the governing parties, including László Szászfalvi: Tell me what you want!]] Now, of course, you may think that this is my problem, that I have to speak in front of you, in front of people like you, but this is the country's problem, because it is precisely the immeasurable corruption, which is why there is no money for wages in this country today, there is no money for those who do quality work to get a high-quality salary, and don't have to think about paying the bills in the middle of the snow or paying the food. Of course, not everyone has such penniless problems, we know very well. Lőrinc Mészáros, who is only known by many as the trustee of Viktor Orbán, became richer by HUF 160 billion last year. This means that this man, the sharp one, made 440 million forints a day. If this continues, Lőrinc Mészáros will be the richest man in the world by 2024; the Hungarian is the poorest, because he works in vain, making Hungarian nights a day, if the Mészáros people put their money in their pockets if they take their money. They take it when they build roads at multiple prices. They lose it when they move their assets to offshore companies so they don't even have to pay taxes. They take people's money when they destroy competing small and medium-sized enterprises, just because they are not good friends of Viktor Orbán. And most of all, they take people's money when they're being worked for food. Do you know how much money a person who, for example, works in Borsodi health care has to make? Do you know how much he has to make a living on? Ninety thousand forints net, 90 a month. Lőrinc Mészáros earns this money in 18 seconds, to say the least, takes this money in 18 seconds from those who actually worked for this money. Do you think that's okay? Do you think that's fair? Do you think it's fair that Lőrinc Mészáros's 18 seconds of bouncing up the road at a boring game is equivalent to the hard work of a Borsodian medical worker for a month? Because I don't think that's bloody fair! Since 2010, Fidesz has taken 1 million HUF out of every Hungarian worker's pocket only through overpriced public procurements, according to conservative estimates: 1 million was taken out of the pockets of the teacher, nurse, cleaner, driver, mason and many others. My question is very simple: when will they return it? When are they gonna give people back the money they stole from them? 'Cause stolen money comes back, right? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-04-44	Secretary of State András Tállai, please.
u2018-06-04-45	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me two good advice if you accept me, who has been elected Parliamentary Representative six times directly [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] while you've never had one. My first advice is that the text of the described interpellation must be given in Parliament according to house rules, not what comes to mind. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: You can go without paper!]] So my first advice is to keep the house rules. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] [[14.50]] My second advice is political: I suggest that when you talk about corruption, about crime, you first contact your former party president, Gábor Vona, and ask him what Jobbik did in the last election campaign. Ask him about his contract with Lajos Simicska in order [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] to give your party political benefits during the campaign, how they got there [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Great answer!]] that the State Audit Office has found prohibited party funding for your party, which will be a significant burden, since the state register has been drained, and this money, as you say, will come back, and Jobbik will have to pay it back to the state register. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Stolen money! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] But your speech also highlights a lot of things in Jobbik. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] For example, your policy has not changed, your policy is about accusations, slander, while you do not account for it in public. Jobbik is about to make a failed policy - because your policy has failed, they no longer have a party president, and they have a new one, they've already chosen a new one, they're talking about how Jobbik will split up. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Worry about yourselves!]] - so they've been looking for people like you to do Jobbik's politics, who can take on fallen politics. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] But if you could face the corruption of your own party, for example, you would face the case of Béla Kovács [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Who you might be dissatisfied with, but... the Central Investigator's Attorney General has filed charges, suspected of bribery, budget fraud, espionage, and the accumulation of false private documents. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: How much does petrol cost in Mezőkövesd?]] But let's also look at what their former vice-president Csanád Szegedi said about you, who said that Jobbik has money for Iranian, Turkish and Russian businessmen. But we can continue, also a former vice-president - the news of today - László Toroczkai says that your party also wanted to support the end of the Party financially. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you also read UFO magazine? Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I think that first you have to account for yourself, and if you can't deal with your failed policies, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There are still good articles in the Revealer, read them.]] then the Parliament or the voters will recite their opinion on you. It is shocking that, in their first speech, they have proved that they have no other way of politicalising but by slandering and accusing others of corruption without any facts - while you are. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-46	Once again, I give the floor to Peter James.
u2018-06-04-47	Thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, that answer was unworthy of you, too. He basically didn't answer. [[Interview from Fidesz: You didn't ask!]] So you did not answer when you wished to return the money that Lőrinc Mészáros or Viktor Orbán's stroman had cut back to the people from whom this money was taken. András Lánczi, one of the leaders of your spiritual lunar station, said not so long ago that what is called corruption is the main policy of Fidesz. So it seems very much that they do not want to stray from this political path in the future. Your answer, or no answer, says that in Hungary, it is still not up to you, who is talented, who is diligent, but who will prosper, who is well placed at Mészáros, Rogán, Shemjén, and the other Fidesz leechers who use the people's money to helicopter, urinate, hunt, while the people are miserable. Your boss, Viktor Orbán, said that he would build a new Christian democracy, with stolen money what kind of Christian democracy that pleases God they want to build, because that can't be done. So I cannot accept your answer, and I hope that my fellow Members will not accept that you think [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] Members, you can take away people's money. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-48	I ask the House whether it accepts the answer. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 113 votes to 39, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-04-49	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the Ormany, Baranya county, people living in more than 40 settlements did not receive the so-called reduction of 12 thousand forints. There are many settlements in the Ormania where gas was introduced years ago, but people were unable to connect and connect to the gas introduced through their poverty. I would like to mention the village of Besence, where the gas service was introduced 14 years ago, but the only resident of the village did not think that it had to be connected to this, all the more so because the fire with the tree was significantly cheaper. At the same time, a government decision was reached. There were two decisions to which I would like to refer, and I do so because the State Secretary or Minister I am interpelling was responsible for his implementation. One of these measures was 1072/2018. a government decision on the measures necessary to extend the winter overhead reduction and, in the case of municipalities without a built-up gas network, a government decision extending the winter overhead reduction, which provided that the state aid of HUF 12,000 would also be granted to wood-fueled households in these municipalities. As a result, Mr Secretary of State, I think it is necessary to ask the following questions: why is the government punishing people living in nearly 40 settlements who have been left out of the winter rent reduction? My second question is whether it has been assessed how many people have been left out of this winter reduction. Third, I ask Mr. Secretary of State when they will be given the $12,000 grant they will receive. I would also like to ask why the government is punishing people living in nearly 40 settlements who have missed the winter reduction. I look forward to your reply.
u2018-06-04-50	In response, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government and previous governments considered it very important, and we still consider it important to limit people's cost of living, we considered it very important and we consider that all the public burdens that affect every household, every Hungarian family, should burden the family budget as little as possible. That is why the government decided at the time to examine the price of all public services that belong to life's everyday life, to normal life, and to limit the price of all public services that can be paid to residents, to people with housing, real estate, and to people living in rented homes. For this reason, in connection with fixed-line utilities and waste transport, both in the context of ownership restructuring and in the framework of price regulation, the government sought, according to Parliament's decision, to reduce, maintain, while maintaining these services and to maintain the functionality of the services. There is no question that there are public services that do not reach every household. This can be forced or can be an elected process, and indeed there are real estate and there are settlements that are settlements of public services, specifically fixed gas, for example, did not reach. The remarkable and truly important sign is that if there is a settlement where a network is otherwise built with various grants, but the residents do not use it, should such improvements be carried out, or this money should be spent on other intelligent improvements. But in any case, there is a particular situation that needs to be dealt with. The government decision on the reduction of the winter gas was to credit 12 thousand forints in the accounts for those with fixed gas and those with district heating, and the government decided to increase the social fuel budget by one billion forints. [[15.00]] The increase in the social fuel framework and its use, as we do every time we work with social fuel and social fuel support, we do so in cooperation with the local governments, and so the municipalities have the opportunity to use this money by the end of the next heating season, so the deadline is long enough for the municipalities to do so. So, according to the government's decision, the Ministry of Interior made this HUF 1 billion available to municipalities. Of course, the government will continue to address the effects of the reduction in the winter regime and its circumstances, which is why a decision was taken not so long ago, stating that the 279 settlements, where there is no fixed gas network at all in the settlement, with the help of the municipalities, will be able to provide the necessary resources for the reduction of electricity, which will need to be delivered to the population by 30 September, and at the moment, the way in which the reduction of the winter gas can be further expanded in households where it is not necessarily clear what fuel is heated or how winter heating will be resolved. Our goal is to ensure that everyone is satisfied with the cost reduction. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-52	I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2018-06-04-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I can't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary, I may not have made myself clear. The problem is that the gas was connected to the village, but it didn't get to the houses, because people are so poor that they assessed their situation and said that they prefer to heat with wood rather than with expensive gas. So, on the one hand, they cannot receive support because the gas is introduced into their village and, on the other hand, they cannot receive support because they are heated with wood. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So we should have found a solution to this problem, but the Secretary of State only replied that a new government decision was being prepared, but it did not show that these people - a problem affecting 40 villages - would be paid out of state aid or would not be paid out of state aid. I took it out of their mouth that they would forget, they wouldn't get anything at all. Mr President, I do not accept the answer. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-54	Good afternoon. Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Order you to vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the reply by 109 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title: "The Cleanness of Elections." On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Justice Dr László Trócsányi's State Secretary, Mr Pál Völner, who is competent and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. First, Congressman Arato shall have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, This year's parliamentary election was deemed unfair by the election observers of the Organisation for Security Cooperation in their preliminary report. It's not a coincidence. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true! You're lying!]] In this interpellation, in the written text, I summarized the most important problems in 15 points, but time does not allow me to explain them all, so I would highlight only the most important ones. This election was held on the basis of a law which was unilaterally adopted by the pro-government majority of Parliament and which provided advantages to the governing parties on several points. They created a one-sided and lying public media and bought most of the electronic and printed media on the market through their stooges and spread their electoral lies. The law provides ample opportunities for the opposition-sharing fake parties, who, in some news and apparently, have received the active support of Fidesz to collect the recommendations needed to start. The adverts of the opposition have been limited by law, while the government has spent many tens of billions of forints in recent years scheming the Fidesz electoral promises in its lying advertisements. In determining the rules for voting letters, a number of loopholes have been left, which, in the case of the letter vote, offer several possibilities for electoral fraud and abuse of electoral rights. At the same time, however, it was limited, administratively impossible or difficult to exercise the voting rights of Hungarians working abroad or even Hungarians voting away from their place of residence. In the meantime, they have not even been able to operate the IT system on parliamentary elections. Although it was evident that this system did not correspond to the load, they were still in a position of operation, thereby achieving that a significant part of the day could not be followed up by the election or appeal, a significant part of the data required for the appeal was not available. All in all, I must say that there are many signs that make this election unfair, not fair. I ask Mr Secretary of State if you would accept the outcome of this vote. I would also like to ask - because I see that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán did not take responsibility, because he did not want to respond to the interpellation - whether you take responsibility for the scandalous conduct of this election. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-04-56	Thank you, Congressman. Secretary Völner, please.
u2018-06-04-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, We all remember that we were here in Parliament to adopt both the Act on Election Procedure and the Act on the Election of Members of Parliament, where the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had a special subcommittee on electoral reform. The positions represented there were indeed different, so not all parties voted in favour of the adoption, but the majority of governments voted in favour of these election rules. But for more than six months, the Parliament discussed it, so that this was a hasty and unamended adoption, it would not hold its ground. In 2005, the Constitutional Court concluded in a resolution that the electoral district limits should be amended, with a deadline until June 2007. This was missed by the social-liberal government at the time, so the majority of the government complied with a decision of the Constitutional Court when they were also addressed and regulated by law. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Hungary also acknowledges that the Government has complied with the demands of the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court, so the electoral law itself will also stand the international test. As far as the fake parties are concerned, I remember a television recording where you and János Zuschlag expressed your views on the Holocaust in public. [[Gergely Arató: You're lying, Secretary of State.]] You didn't explain it, only János Zuschlag, I'll clarify, but there's no doubt that you can see it together, so you know János Zuschlag. According to press information, János Zuschlag and his six associates are being investigated by NAV's South-Alföld Crime Directorate for illicit data acquisition, because in the autumn of 2017 data were extracted from the database of a financial consulting firm to collect recommendations for possible fake parties for elections. So I would recommend that you activate your previous contacts if you want to acquire in-depth knowledge in this area, because there is a source of information in the person of the practitioner. As regards the further questions that you have raised: I note, by the way, that since they were not entirely professional in nature, I cannot fully provide answers to them of a professional nature, for which I apologise to the majority in Parliament. So from the electoral register, the law is 267. Pursuant to paragraph (a) of the Act, voters who have established a Hungarian address at the latest on the seventh day before the day of the election must be removed from the register of voters. Perhaps you have missed this regulation, Congressman. So, conceptually, there's no way someone can vote in two forms in an election. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The president of the National Election Office specifically mentioned this in his report at the Parliament's inaugural meeting. Mr President, Mr President, you have not been involved in this, and we cannot do so, of course, but I can suggest that you do not have to rely only on my presentation to fill in the gap. [[15.10]] However, in relation to the election, a serious error of law must not be passed. According to the Constitutional Court, the Curia has unlawfully annulled thousands of votes across borders, so a parliamentary mandate was lost by the Fidesz-KDNP party association and its voters. Perhaps this too has escaped the attention of Congressman during the debates over the past few weeks. So, overall, I can say that the law on electoral proceedings and all the legislation are in line with European standards, and that the election result that the will of the vast majority of voters created here in Parliament can be accepted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-58	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Arato if he will accept the answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You have contested what the OSCE report found. It has been found that the atmosphere of intimidation, xenophobic rhetoric, media bias and opaque campaign funding have limited the importance of real political debates. It is difficult to interpret this in a different way than that it is not a fair choice. As far as your only specific answer is concerned, since you have discussed most of the questions, it was concerned that, although the law does require that a Hungarian voter who has established a Hungarian address in Hungary should be removed from the register of cross-border voters, only because this register is not public, so no one can verify it. We should believe you that you're not cheating in elections, but that's hard for me. I regret that the Secretary of State did not take responsibility, but I cannot accept his reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-04-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the answer, and now you can vote on how you feel about it. Here. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the reply by 110 votes to one, 32 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How does the government protect Hungarian families from eviction? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I am asking you this question, and I am very sorry that Minister is not in and you cannot answer that question. It is symbolic and also very sad that, here in the newly formed Parliament, I must ask my first interpellation in relation to a cynical decision such as the decision to set the eviction moratorium only until 30 April, because it was only until the elections that it was important for you what would happen to people. Now you don't care what happens to the nearly 100,000 people you can put on the street and there's nothing to protect them. It is our job in Parliament to bring the people concerned here and speak in Parliament in their voice. This is what we will use this platform in the walls of Parliament in the coming years to tell you what the Hungarian reality is that most people face every day. It seems very clear from government action that you are not faced with this. Uncertainty and fear now appear everywhere, and we would like them to respond here and now in Parliament to the people who are about to be evicted, what they are doing to save them. We can only hope that they will not make a similar cynical decision. In Bihari Street in Kőbánya he condemned a building to be demolished by the Fidesz management, which had been renovated by 700 million forints before, and the residents, moreover, spent all their savings to keep this social housing block in good condition, always paying their bill on time. Believe me, I've been there a lot myself, we've met them a lot, and they've organised awareness-raising actions themselves, civil society organisations and us, and we're talking about decent people against all propaganda, families with small children and sick people who are about to be evicted. After the 700 million renovation, the Fidesz municipality found that the house was life-threatening. Since then, this has been averted, the building is currently awaiting renovation, so they want to evict the residents without accommodation. We also submitted a proposal for a resolution to the municipality itself, but of course, there the whole thing went deaf. The municipality did not undertake to provide these people with a replacement apartment. But they didn't make any mistakes, they only tried to use their housing rights, otherwise, what you didn't put into the Fundamental Law as a fundamental right. So I'm waiting for your answer to see if you can assure the residents of Bihari Street that they won't lose their housing. Can you take responsibility for suspending the evictions that have already been launched? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And can you give them an answer as to whether they will have the government's will to provide proper accommodation for these people? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-04-62	Thank you very much. Instead of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Mr Pál Völner will answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congresswoman was specifically interested in the issue of Bihari Street residents, but the evictions they are talking about obviously fall within the scope of the implementation procedures as a whole. Technically, we have managed to extend until 30 April the earlier eviction moratorium, the implementation moratorium, which existed for a shorter period of time. However, I would also like to say for information that you use the concepts of implementation and eviction in a very similar way, even though there is virtually no direct correlation between the number of cases of execution and the number of evictions. The number of evictions is minimal compared to the whole enforcement case. After all, there are times when the debtor voluntarily performs, sometimes when he has other properties, and only in exceptional cases is it necessary to evacuate a property using official assistance. What we can say about the period since 2010 is that, on the one hand, we have managed to bring hundreds of thousands of people out of this situation in terms of foreign exchange creditors, which has put their housing at risk. We have managed to create the National Asset Manager, which has already saved 35,000 apartments for debtors so that their housing remains resolved. In the enforcement procedures, 100% of the value on which a property can be executed was determined. However, in the case of real estate owned by local governments and social tenements, I would also like to inform you that the 1993 LXXVIII on certain arrangements for renting and disposing of apartments and premises in Bihari Street in Kőbánya. The so-called Housing Act regulates the legal consequences of the termination of fixed and indefinite lease contracts. The new Ptk. However, these rules may be applied only on 15 March 2014 or in subsequent leases. The termination of the building due to the breakdown of the building may also arise on the basis of the decision of the municipality's housing management or the construction authority, both falling within the category of ordinary termination. In order to protect the housing of tenants, the Housing Act is set at 26. § 7 states that the termination of the rental contract for a municipal dwelling rented for an indefinite period on the basis of a social situation is limited even in the case of the offer of an adequate replacement dwelling. The parties may request the court to establish the legality of the termination or, in the absence of voluntary performance, to order the enforcement of the legal consequences of the termination. In this case, the municipality initiates the implementation of its decision on housing, it must take account of the moratorium on eviction, unless it initiates the evacuation of a self-occupied apartment. The debtors concerned shall have the opportunity to seek legal advice from the legally competent territorial assistance service if they comply with the conditions laid down in the law. Contacting the relevant family and child welfare services may also be justified, as they can help either with care or with food. I hope that I have managed to explore the legislative environment in this matter, and I hope that you will be able to make use of the assistance offered by these services. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-64	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2018-06-04-65	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept the answer. We don't need cheap lawyers here. I can read the law. [[György Balla: You have to understand.]] By the way, the residents have also read the legislation. What we are talking about here is that if they do not provide adequate guarantees, then they must be changed. It depends on nothing more than government will and government will. That's what I wanted to know if I had it. [[15.20]] We have tabled several amendments to the law and a complex package of laws, which has been swept twice by the government. The City Everyone Group has also formulated the amendments that, if implemented, could be given more guarantee elements so that certain municipalities would not otherwise be able to play the rules by accident or refer to any loopholes. A lot of people are being played out, with a lot of people even knowingly concluding a fixed-term contract just to get rid of them. Secretary of State, think about it. These are families with small children, sick people who may be on the street. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] No one deserves this, and I must add that anyone can be in this situation at any time, either because of sickness or because of the loss of their job.
u2018-06-04-66	Please, just stop.
u2018-06-04-67	Take action on this case.
u2018-06-04-68	The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the answer by 109 votes in favour, 32 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Dr. Tamás Mellar [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Now, independent!]] , a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Why is the government clouding? Why do they refuse to abolish the loss-making settlement bond scheme? It's an address. Congressman Mellar has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As you know, the former Chancellor János Lázár spoke for the first time at the government info held on 27 October 2016 about the withdrawal of the system of settlement bonds by the government. A few months later, in January 2017, the State Debt Management Centre announced in a press release that the ÁKK would close the settlement bonds issue. Although the sale of bonds did indeed pause in the year before the election, contrary to the earlier words of János Lázár, there was no real withdrawal, since the legislative change did not take place. In the last few days, the Government Debt Management Center has released to the G7 web portal all the series of documents issued over four years, which revealed exactly how much the Hungarian State won or failed. According to expert calculations, the data show that Fidesz's special immigration policy costed HUF 17.5 billion to the Hungarian population, i.e. HUF 1800 to all Hungarian citizens. On the other hand, offshore companies designated by the Parliament's Economic Commission, selling bonds, gained a profit of HUF 156 billion. The current situation is therefore that the Act on the Entry and Residence of Third-country Nationals 35/A. §2 of the Act contains the detailed rules of the construction to this day, so the government did nothing but ice this construction for the election period, so that at some point, after an appropriate election result, this kind of construction would continue. On the basis of what has been said so far, I think that the questions are quite obvious and I would like to address these questions to the Secretary of State. The first question is why the government allowed the loss-making programme to run for years, while there was much more favourable resources available to finance public debt on the markets. The second question is why the government refuses to amend the law and legally terminate the programme. The third question is whether offshore companies selling bonds are planned to be screened, whether or not they are considering introducing a special tax on these companies. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-04-70	Thank you very much. The Member's question will be answered by the Secretary of State of Tállai. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You claim two things in your interpellation: one is that the possibility to subscribe to the settlement policy has not ceased, and my answer will be relatively simple; the other is that this settlement policy was not worth it to the Hungarian State, so you say that it was loss-making. Now, let's go over these two topics. One of them. I'm asking you, if you'd like to register a settlement policy right now, or if you're not, say, a foreign acquaintance of yours, you'd be able to make a note of it. The answer is that you can't memorize me. The reason you couldn't make a note is because a Ministry of National Economy decree, legislation, doesn't allow that to happen, it probably missed you. It's not a law, it's a ministerial decree, but it's the same decree: it forbids and doesn't allow it. To date, such an application could not be submitted after 31 March 2017, there is no possibility to subscribe to a Hungarian residency policy today. I think that question is not a question. The other question, which you say was whether it was loss-making for the Hungarian State, is also claiming sums. It is very interesting to refer to an economic portal, referring to the calculations of the economic portal. By the way, if we observe this economic portal, what I read from them, about the government, about the government's actions, they haven't written a good one. So I'm not accusing them of where they stand politically and what their purpose is, but I couldn't find a paper that actually did what the Fidesz government has done in the last eight years, and it would've been admitted once. You refer to this portal to calculate this. By the way, if you look at it professionally as a well-known economist professor, you should have noticed that these professional calculations refer to the fact that a two-year bond yield is similar to a five-year bond yield in Hungarian: the apple resembles the pear. Such calculations cannot be invoked, and I am sorry, and in particular no reference can be made to the former President of the Statistical Office. If you had done your official work under the Fidesz administration in such a way as to make the calculations and estimates of the economic portal official, I think your work would have been uncredited. Finally, allow me to make a political comment. Of course, you, now as an opposition representative, can say anything about the bond coming back at this time, so you predict that. But I ask you, are you an opposition representative or an independent representative? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What does that have to do with anything?]] Before the election, an independent representative, after the election, an opposition representative, an opposition representative, joins a faction. [[Szabó Timea: Why? Is the independent non-opposed?]] Obviously, I have to say that this decision was profitable for you. So what we're talking about here is that you think the settlement policy is a loss, and I've proven it's not; in my opinion, you're entering the faction is profitable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-72	Thank you very much. Before giving the Member the opportunity or the opportunity to respond, I would like to say that the interpellation is just a genre that the questioner asks the government and not the government asks the questioner, that is just the way it is. So now, on the other hand, Congressman Mellar will be given the opportunity to say in a moment how he feels about this and whether he will accept the answer. [[Szabó Timea's intervention.]]
u2018-06-04-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, what kind of Member I am, I think, is probably not affected by the nature of the question; otherwise, I still think that I am an opposition representative and I consider myself even when I have joined a faction. These two don't contradict each other. [[Mr. Moraj, there's a crack in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. János Latorcai: Freudi comment! The president's ringing the bell.]] I think it would have been a reassuring solution on the part of the government if this whole settlement bond issue had been dealt with legally, because a law was passed at the time when this construction started. This should not be dealt with in a lower legal order, but in law, so I would be more relaxed if this were legally withdrawn. And the fact that I collected the basic data from the G7 portal is undoubtedly true, but this does not affect the fact that in this construction there is a guarantee that this bond arrangement will provide a minimum 2 percent return anyway. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] if resources can be obtained from the market at a lower cost. In fact, this has happened in recent years, and the loss comes from here. Thank you very much. [[15.30]]
u2018-06-04-74	Congressman, do you accept...
u2018-06-04-75	I don't accept...
u2018-06-04-76	That's what I thought, but you still ask. [[Defiance.]] Now, we could go further logically, but that requires your decision, so vote now. Here you go. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the answer by 110 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Dr. István Vitányi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Whose interests influence the judgment of the courts in Hungary? It's an address. It's for the congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, If you can hear what I'm saying in that noise, it'll be fine. Judicial independence is one of the pillars of the rule of law, which is also declared constitutionally by the Fundamental Law and the Law on the status and remuneration of judges. Therefore, if a person or organisation endangers judicial independence, its conduct is seriously contrary to the rule of law, we can also say that it is completely insensitive to the fundamental values of democracy. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear Secretary of State, As recently revealed, the Helsinki Committee, one of the most active lobbying organisations on the Soros network, has held so-called sensitizing trainings for hundreds of judges and judicial staff in recent years. As is known, the Helsinki Committee, linked to György Soros, is one of the largest supporters of migration in Hungary, and accordingly, during their legal and expert lectures, the judges wanted to be sensitive to the use of positive discrimination against immigrants. Trainings were considered by lawyers linked to the organisation and by persons they call experts, whose aim is to give the migrant person a positive assessment in criminal matters. In particular, judicial independence is violated by the fact that in the courtroom, in specific criminal matters, the judge involved in the sensitization meets with the lawyer holding the training. It has become clear, therefore, that the Soros network is helping migrants to migrate to Europe not only through legal aid, but also by influencing judges, and this goes against the will of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government and threatens the independence of the judiciary and national security. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the Hungarian Government can do to prevent similar initiatives and thus preserve the independence of the judiciary. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-78	Thank you very much. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I promise that I will judge the matters entrusted to me in a fair procedure, impartially, conscientiously, only in accordance with the law, and in the pursuit of my profession the principle of justice and fairness - the text of the oath of judges in Hungary today. The law on the administration of justice and its retention must ensure that judges can make their decisions on the basis of their best professional convictions and consciences, as set out in their judicial oaths. The functioning of the judiciary in the state of law is subject to the application of all constitutional principles. Among these principles, there is a high priority for judicial independence, but the other principles are equally important, such as the principle of judicial monopoly of the judiciary, the unity of justice, the right to appeal or the presumption of innocence. Judicial independence is ensured when judges can decide on individual cases without any influence, without bias. In the case at hand, the judge is also independent, provided by the legal guarantees under which the judge of the case cannot be removed by dismissal, removal or transfer. In the theory of law, the purpose of ensuring judicial independence is defined in such a way that other branches of power, in particular the executive power, do not have the opportunity to intervene in the processes of justice. At the same time, independence must be ensured from all sides. The judge cannot be influenced by the parties' relatives in the court corridor, by the pressure from the press, by the interests of the farmer or civil society organisations, or, as is apparent in this case, by attempts to influence networks that want to influence the thinking of judges, not in a specific case, not in a specific procedure, but in a particular group of cases. The task of the government and the Parliament is to provide legal guarantees in order to achieve this, so that judges cannot be influenced from other sides and ensure the legal functioning of the judiciary, that is to say, that independent judges have a high standard and timely judgment. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The press release of the National Court of Justice on 28 May also pointed out that, in recent years, some organisations have undertaken to train judges in the European Union's applications they have received without consulting the National Court of Justice in advance. These so-called sensitizing trainings organised by various organisations calling themselves civilians may pose a serious risk to the preservation of judicial independence, since what they call knowledge sharing is in fact a serious attempt to influence. Justice integrity is at risk. It is of particular importance for society that both the court and the executive authority regulate and defend their integrity. It is therefore comforting for the court organisation to seek to learn lessons and, in the future, to ensure that its training events do not give rise to integrity risk manifestations, especially those organisations that, in contrast to the legislative process, are constantly seeking to regulate migration, for example, on the basis of other interests. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-81	Thank you very much, I ask the Secretary of State's reply accepted. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] that the judicial government should do everything in its power to ensure that judicial independence is not undermined. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-82	Thank you very much. The Member has accepted the answer, so we do not have to vote, as appropriate. Thus, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, who submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister, is going to be followed by: who is going to stop the social disaster? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Dr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, who is competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. It's for the congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-83	Mr President, Dear House, The representatives of Jobbik receive dozens of alarms about recent eviction events, the end of an implementation process that almost always results in a family losing their home. The Secretary of State may be tired of this subject, shaking his head, I can see it, but even if he is... [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Luckily, you're not bored. I think it is important that we discuss the relevant consequences, because I believe that in a normal country, in addition to party policy adjustments, a common national minimum should be established in order to preserve at least the remaining social safety net. And the climate that the Fidesz-KDNP has created over the last eight years allows for the ignominious consequences for those with foreign currency credit, since now it is no longer - in quotes - that we receive alarms only from individual players and families in difficulty, but, for example, from an entrepreneur who, in addition to the dubious claim, has offered to give 150 thousand forints per month plus the total return of his business to the financial institution concerned, only to let him live, work, not to throw away his property, his job and the property he works in, and for this offer - this more generous offer cannot be imagined, since someone in addition to self-preservation offers all his income to the institution concerned - but they said no, but they suggested that he should borrow money from somewhere else, and that he would not be able to make any more reasonable or probable claim here. It is therefore quite clear that what Fidesz-KNDP allowed is also against the interests of the Hungarian national economy. [[15.40]] After all, the interests of the Hungarian national economy dictate that these entrepreneurs, these people of the productive sphere, can work and pay taxes, and at least here, when there is a willingness to repay, they can at least stay on their feet. It should not be the end of an auction event, during which a narrow circle of friends will obtain this property at a price that is printed within the legal framework of Fidesz-KDNP. I suppose that's true in most cases, but, Mr. Secretary of State, if not so, do you have in your hands a systematic statement of how much Hungarian property is in danger due to auctions, others, similar events? Do you have a record of how many Hungarian families are in danger and how many Hungarian families and how many can be saved? And one last question, Mr. Secretary: if you do not have such a statement in your hand, are you capable of dealing with this problem? Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-84	Thank you very much. Secretary Völner is responding. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Between the walls of this House, I believe that this dialogue has been held many times between us, where I may have been able to give a thorough account of what the government has done since 2010 to improve the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers and to make their problems bearable or even eliminate within the framework of the legislative framework, EU standards. We remember very well the end-payment, the price barrier, where hundreds of thousands of families were excluded from these negative effects. We remember the forinting, where we practically managed to exempt these loans from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We all know that, for example, the Swiss franc is still at a much higher rate than the one on which the forinting took place, and that the interest rate environment is significantly more favourable than in the previous years when this problem occurred. I have also said many times that the decisions themselves have been made along the lines of the laws, the decisions of the Curia, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the framework established by the decisions of the Court of Luxembourg, because without them the state would have brought hundreds of billions of dollars of lawsuits and damages lawsuits against banks, which should have been paid by all taxpayers. We also know that for the most deprived, for example, we have created the asset management institution; it has started in a more modest way, but the possibility of family bankruptcy protection, which also provides opportunities for many families. The accounting process was also affected by 3.6 million consumer contracts, during which banks reimbursed HUF 750 billion of consumer claims to those entitled to it. Calling it that we left anyone on the side of the road is a big exaggeration. And I must reject those comments that the ruling party has any interest in the outcome of these implementations. Without forintification, significant financial stability risks would have emerged, while debtors would have increased their repayments by 20 percent. I mentioned the exchange rate issue, and we know that there have also been changes in enforcement procedures, where, for example, residential property cannot be sold below a hundred percent. We know that the eviction moratorium was extended during the winter period. They have all changed within the legislation to how to alleviate the situation of these people. If, of course, the government could - there would be European precedents that would in practice allow room for manoeuvre - obviously they would be followed in legislation. It is interesting, however, that Jobbik has not previously been so interested in saving foreign exchange creditors, many politicians, including Gábor Vona, have not voted in favour of bank settlement or forinting. Jobbik and the Socialists would have left hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange families on the side of the road. Since 2010, Fidesz-KDNP has taken these measures into account, resulting in a 25-30 percent decrease in payments, with a reduction in the overall burden of families by HUF 1000 billion. We ended the era of foreign exchange loans and launched the home creation programme. Of course, the debts that are constantly generated in economic life are constantly with us and require separate treatment, not the transformation of the entire legal system. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-86	Thank you very much. Congressman, I'm asking you to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2018-06-04-87	Minister of State, on this day of mourning - because it is a national day of mourning - we have lived the moment that you were telling the truth: indeed, Jobbik did not support Fidesz' market-based forinting, we did not support the vile assassination that if someone took up their so-called loan at 165 HUF, then you and your good friends decided that this should be converted at a market rate of 256 HUF. If we were to be ashamed of that, we would, but we can be proud of ourselves for not being involved in this betrayal. And, Mr. Secretary, are you referring to family bankruptcy? Were fewer than a thousand clients able to help in any way? Are you suggesting that the framework has assigned you the exchange rate that could be interfered with? That's not true. The Curia didn't say anything about any exchange rate. That's your decision. They take responsibility for it in a man's way. They haven't done that yet. He did not respond to the solution they would offer to the entrepreneurial family that I set out in the specific example. And we also see that although, Mr. Secretary, you said that I claimed that you had some interest in the real estate business, I didn't say that. For some reason, you took it upon yourself, the problem of your own conscience, why you took it upon yourself, but I cannot accept your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-88	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament what its decision is. Now vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 108 yes, 34 no against and without abstention, the State Secretary's reply was accepted by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The time frame for interpellation has run out, but since the house rules allow at least one interpellation to be told by every parliamentary faction, we now have Congressman Péter Harrach, representative of KDNP. [[Noise.]] - I'm glad that you're happy - :, What changes do 2018 bring about in the lives of families? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-89	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about family policy related to the number one national fate, the demographic situation. In 2010, the civilian government found that the situation was rather deplorable, that there was a low level of family and childbearing, that there was a high number of abortions, and that the government, as a result, focused on families. It was also about the family as a core value-bearing and value-creating unit in Hungary's new Fundamental Law:. Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between men and women, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. A new family support system has been introduced and strengthened. Family tax relief was the pillar of this, and from 18 onwards, families with two children could save HUF 35 thousand a month, while three children saved HUF 99 thousand. The government restored the three-year-old child, and also introduced your diplomat. In 18, the government already spent nearly HUF 2000 billion on family support. One of the most important elements of family policy is the reconciliation of work and family. For example, the Gyed extra, the job protection action plan, helped families to increase the number of nursery and kindergarten seats. We have introduced and confirmed free children's meals and free school textbooks. The introduction of the CSOK, which affected 75,000 families, was a big step. I will ask the Secretary of State what measures will be taken by the new government for families, and what results have been shown so far in the actions launched in the framework of the year of families. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2018-06-04-90	Thank you very much. Ms Katalin Novák, State Secretary, will answer the question of the Member. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, much has already been said about demographic issues, demographic challenges and the results achieved and the challenges ahead. It may therefore be worth looking back at the legacy we received and the consequences of the bad decisions that led to the demographic situation that we inherited in 2010. Let us remind you that on 1 January 2006 the regular child protection allowance ceased, the tax relief for families with one and two children ceased. The tax relief of three children and several children has also been reduced, so think about the fact that today a family with three children can save a hundred thousand forints a month in the form of a tax reduction, and let us not forget that this was four thousand forints a month, so this amount is not really a tax reduction either. The third year child was abolished, which, for example, would not allow even a Member of Parliament to stay away for up to three years and focus on his child, which is now safe for every mother in Hungary to do, as she can also choose to work in addition to raising her child from the age of six months. In some cases, the duration of the child was reduced to even two years, and even the Socpol was abolished, so all decisions were made in the period before 2010 against families and the family support was destroyed. Compared to this, in 2010, we announced a family-friendly turnaround, and since 2010, all our decisions have been in the interests of families. This is also shown by the fact that the budget for support for families increased from 3.5 per cent in GDP to 4.7 per cent, but if I were to put it in nominal terms, we were able to increase the support for families from HUF 1000 billion to HUF 2000 billion, thus doubling it. We have restored the child's third year, restored the family tax allowance, even raised it, introduced the ged extra, so today we can work for up to 8 hours in addition to having children, fresh graduates or university students can have children and go to school. We have also introduced a job protection action, the tax relief of the first married couple, and a free meal for the children. Two and a half times as many people eat free today as before. The free textbook has been extended to the first nine years. This affects more than a million children in Hungary, and we have also developed the nursery system, which has led to the fact that there have never been as many crèches as there are in Hungary. 2018 is the year of families. The year of families means that more attention is paid to families, more support and a lot of programs that are specifically about bringing generations together, from small children to grandparents, to the whole family. This year's result is that we have repeatedly increased the family tax relief for two children, and now they can save 35,000 forints a month. Next year, this will rise to HUF 40,000 again, and in the case of student loans, we have made it possible for the mother to have student loans to be suspended in the event of a child's child's waiting, to partially or completely waive the repayment of student loans. The same is true of mortgage loans. In the event of the arrival of a third child, the mortgage loans will be released by 1 to 1 million HUF per child at the large families. We have also expanded the home creation programme, and now the home creation programme is available to even more people. The conditions have also been simplified or highlighted today, on the day of national integration, is an important element, the cord programme, which is about giving birth support to children who are born outside our borders and baby bonds. We will continue this in the second half of 2018 and in 2019 as well. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Our goal is to create a family-friendly country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-92	Thank you very much. I ask the Member if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2018-06-04-93	Madam State Secretary's response reassured me that family policy is in good hands and that the process that has been going on for eight years will continue, and the situation of Hungarian families will continue to improve for the next four years. Therefore, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-94	Thank you very much. Congressman accepted the answer, so there is no need for a vote. Dear Parliament, Now, at 3:54 p.m., we're moving on to discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I will ask Mr Gyöngyösi, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-06-04-95	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, I will wait for Prime Minister.
u2018-06-04-96	I see. In this case, I would like to ask the representative of the Jobbik, Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm, who wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "All protection is due to our children too! It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-06-04-97	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-06-04-98	There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-04-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always longed for the first time to speak in Parliament, the first time to be a child's case or a child's defence. However, I did not want to be accompanied by an extremely serious, serious crime. I didn't want to have to make the first speech after the murder of a child. The reason for my speech, as stated in the title, is that our children should also benefit from all that is due to children in other countries, to the protection of children's rights. Why do I think we have to deal with this murder? Of course, we hear many times that we want to turn a tragedy like this into political capital, but the person who sits in this House, who is a member of Parliament, cannot capitalise on political capital, because this is the institution where and as we can create the legislative environment and institutions. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary between 2010 and 2016 has submitted numerous proposals to make sure that, in acts where the uncontrollable nature of pedophilia or even overheated sexual desires is detected as a disease, pharmaceutical treatment should also appear as a mandatory element of the law. We have asked many times for us to keep a record of the possibility of making a public record of those convicted of pedophilia, so that such a person should never be entitled to custody of children. I ask honourable Members of Parliament and the Government to put these issues back on the agenda, and, as we say and everyone says, only the most beautiful and the best for children is good enough. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary Völner, two minutes.
u2018-06-04-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, Since 2010, the Criminal Code has been tightened up on several occasions with regard to offences against children. For example, since 21 December 2014, Btk has been regarded as a non-exaggerating crime. Article XIX on crimes against gender freedom and gender morality Any criminal offence as defined in Chapter I of the Code which is more punishable than five years of imprisonment if the victim of the offence was not 18 years of age at the time of the offence. Since 1 December 2017, in view of the weight of the offence against the freedom of sex and sexual morality of a person under 18 years of age, the perpetrator of those offences must be permanently prohibited from exercising any occupation or any other activity in which he carries out the education, supervision, care, treatment of children or is otherwise in a position of power or influence vis-à-vis such a person. These rules provide significantly greater protection than the rules of the previous period, we have tried to go to the limit of criminal law, following European practice, to see what is the strictest regulation that can be applied. These include tightening up drug-related crimes against children and the fact that those involved cannot be employed where they can be in contact with children. In addition, since 1 January 2018, the regulation of sexual acts against persons under the age of 12 has been further tightened and structured. Accordingly, he is punishable by imprisonment from 5 to 10 years of age, who is engaged in sexual activity with a person under the age of 12. Thank you. [[16.00]]
u2018-06-04-102	One minute rejoinder to the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-103	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer, but that is not what we were talking about. It can be seen that in the last eight years, this prevention, which was intended to be carried out, has not been implemented. Rather, it is painful for a future criminal to receive, in addition to the punishment, medication or a public register capable of preventing such a person from going to a children's community. In fact, such judgments are in vain that he cannot enter a children's community if no one knows who cannot enter a children's community. I ask one thing: if Swiss, British, German and Polish children are entitled to full legal protection from those in society who have ever committed such acts, then the Hungarian children are also entitled to it. Children did not ask for life, the children who were born in our country today did not want to be born here, and it is our duty to give children the greatest possible legal protection by all means. That's why I can't accept the answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-04-104	Mr. Secretary's rejoinder in one minute.
u2018-06-04-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The whole society is always shaken by these flagrant crimes, which we have recently encountered in this case as well. I think it is our duty to ensure that the most rigorous penalties and the greatest prevention are in all cases. At the same time, we also need to see the framework where excessive criminal tightening would be a violation of other rights. I think that this is a professional debate, and it is not that virtually anyone would not want to tighten up, would not want to give the highest level of regulation for the protection of children. I think that these issues need to be debated and discussed, but they need to be kept professionally, and, of course, if there is a possibility, there is always another means of fighting with weapons from criminal instruments. But I think, in particular, that we are also looking forward to the proposal of the congresswoman, and then we will give an appropriate answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-106	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on in the EMMI? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept her identity. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I accept.]] Yeah. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, More than 2,000 people were rewarded by Zoltán Balog as Minister of Human Resources before the elections. On average, the bonus was HUF 2 million each. About 4.2 billion forints were paid to the employees. The official name of the target application was that the Ministry fulfilled the number of the payment plan provided for in the Government Decision. I would like to address a single EU programme. This programme is an operational programme to support deprived persons, which has supported disadvantaged persons. We have seen that in recent years this program has only been accompanied by scandal. We are talking about a 32 billion HUF EU programme, where very poor, disadvantaged mothers, children under 3 years of age, homeless people were targeted by this programme and poor pensioners. Well, see, this program was almost launched before the election, Mr. Secretary. I would like to turn to this programme because in this context almost HUF 1 billion has been paid, I understand, a minimum of HUF 32 billion was paid before the elections. Employees were paid this high, almost HUF 2 million per person to speed up the payment and delivery of EU programmes. I would add that this programme started with almost a two-year delay. Mr State Secretary, we have seen several times on the news, and I have also seen during the elections that Fidesz, KDNP MEPs, distributed these food packages to families during the campaign without saying that they were from the Union, but from the Hungarian government. Mr. Secretary, how much has been paid? How much of this programme, 32 billion forints, has reached the families concerned, and will the program continue because the elections are over? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-04-108	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You said this program started before the elections. The programme was launched in December 2016 and the elections were held in spring 2018. Four programme elements have been launched in a row, and I am happy to tell you how this has been accomplished and what groups have been able to deliver. For the first time in the program for the homeless, we can provide a regular hot meal for 4,000 people every day. It has a budget of HUF 4 billion. Here we work with the Homeless Public Foundation. So far, until March 31st, we were able to distribute 1.2 million hot meals. The largest part is HUF 19 billion, of which 1 billion is a start-up program, and then HUF 18 billion is the big program. In this we can give long-term foods to families with children aged 0-3 years and are entitled to regular child protection benefits. Here in the summer months, this will be extended, in July and August, for families of 7-14 years of age who also have a difficult fate to receive a durable food package from this programme. So far, 200,000 packages have been distributed. All allocations have been made with image elements as required by the European Union. It also started for HUF 2 billion for pregnant mothers and parents with small children with durable consumer goods, to care for young children, with other products that are important to the child, such as toys and others, a program in which 26 thousand families can be divided once a year into a package of long-term consumer goods of greater value. From a budget of HUF 10 billion every three months, we can distribute a package of 10 kilos to older people with 53,000 low incomes, mainly long-lasting foods, rice, flour, sugar, jam, oil, dry pasta and canned food. 20,000 packages have already been allocated. This is how the programme was going, and it will continue in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-110	Congresswoman's rejoinder in one minute.
u2018-06-04-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State was very careful not to say that this programme was implemented through EU support. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I told you, I also told you about the image elements!]] By the way, since the Second World War, Hungary has not received such support to help poor people, especially people with very difficult fates and disadvantages. Mr. Secretary, I've asked you a number of questions. My question also concerned whether these packages follow seasonal periods, whether these packages are distributed in such a way that they take into account that it is spring, it is autumn, it is summer, or it is not taken into account. Secretary of State, we have also seen since the purchase price is a multiple of food packages, basic food packages, canned food, pasta, like, say, going to the store and buying it. Mr. Secretary, we also saw during the campaign that you used this for campaign purposes. They were very careful not to face the fact that it was EU support, but to give it to those in need as government support, Fidesz-KDNP support. You've finished this, haven't you, Secretary of State, and in the next period...
u2018-06-04-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-04-113	...the only way people get it is how they deserve it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-04-114	Secretary of State, one minute.
u2018-06-04-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I repeat, because he was having a conversation when I answered that question. In all cases, conditions are provided for the allocation of packages according to the European Union's image manual. So there is no irregularity in this, honourable Member. I refuse to charge you with multiple prices. The price also includes logistics costs. This is what is extra service for these, because here every month, every three months or every year, these packages must be delivered to the settlements, obviously there are places for only one or two persons. But we provide these everywhere. With regard to seasonality, honourable Member, we are talking here about basic foods, as I have said, such as rice, flour, sugar, jam, oil or children's toiletries, diapers, which are necessary for families at all seasons, regardless of seasonality. We have tried to select products - and feedback from stakeholders is constant here, they are always incorporated into new orders - on which there is the greatest demand, and this is generally independent of the season, since basic foods are the same every season. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2018-06-04-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question, "Where is the money?" It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-06-04-117	I will pay close attention to Mr. Secretary of State's response. Yeah.
u2018-06-04-118	I understand the first part of the sentence, but thank you for helping me with the interpretation. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2018-06-04-119	Thank you so much for your help. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few days, the press has been loud with headlines and titles that can come with cuts, because the government is overspended, Hungary is violating the rules on the medium-term deficit target, again Hungary is Brussels, corrective action is needed. These sentences are about the fact that you have essentially created an election budget in the last year and have put Hungary's operation in a risky situation which, I think, is unacceptable. Now, on the basis of the official opinion of the Commission of the European Union, you must take corrective action. It didn't get worse with a couple of corporals. You've made it twice as much worse than it was supposed to be. We have been listening for years to what reforms you have implemented, and while the European Union's resources are pouring into Hungary, you have created a much worse situation. Of course, on this subject, we cannot expect you to advertise on a billboard what is the truth, we cannot expect you to draw people's attention in consultation to what you need to save, we cannot expect you to tell us that in health care, education, where you will spend less, but, instead, there will be answers that we will hear from you. In 2010, Fidesz was given a historic opportunity. After the global economic crisis, Hungary had the opportunity to make real progress. What are you going to do about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-06-04-120	Thank you. Secretary of State Tallai will respond in two minutes.
u2018-06-04-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Yes, this Council recommendation is not about what you said. [[Intercoms: We can't hear you!]] It's not about what you said. [[He's adjusting his microphone.]] It does indeed draw the country's attention, and several other countries, to pay attention to their budgetary processes and to make recommendations to the country, to which the Government will then respond on 15 October 2018 on how the recommendations of a particular professional nature have been implemented. We also know that this is not the first attack or awareness of the European Union's action against Hungary - how shall I put it? Somehow this is what Hungary has come up with, that the processes that take place in Hungary must always be protected against the European Union. What are these processes? Among other things, the lack of a budget is decreasing year by year as compared to GDP. Or the process of reducing public debt year after year. Unlike in your time, since you, Member, have recently been politicalised in the MSZP: I remember that these processes had the opposite effect at the time. Obviously, he is now a great advocate for putting these processes into place. They will also be put in place, as, in principle, several countries with the European Union have a professional debate on the EU methodology. The result of this debate is this recommendation now, and I think that there is no need to make any special changes in the budgetary management of our country, because the trend, the expectation that the budget deficit will be reduced, is basically satisfactory for many years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-122	Thank you. Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2018-06-04-123	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You know that the answer you are saying is unacceptable, because all that we have learned from the Commission of the European Union about how you manage it, you refused to talk to the Hungarian people. We are talking about the need to save HUF 570 000 million in order to put you in some position. This is twice as much as the total budget for higher education today. That's what you should be saving. How are they gonna figure this out? If you are doing so, so dynamically, how do you think, for example, how do you respond to the idea or the question of how much this might affect the tax on the construction of the apartments, and to what extent the Hungarian economy might be affected by your irresponsible farming. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2018-06-04-124	Thank you very much. Secretary of State's rejoinder in a minute.
u2018-06-04-125	The result of the management you consider irresponsible is that revenues are constantly increasing in Hungary. For example, [[László Varju: Benzinár above 400 HUF! Of course, of course.]] In 2017, revenues increased by HUF 600 billion, by 4.8 percent. This is the result that economic growth is constantly measurable and is constantly above the average of the European Union in Hungary. You consider farming to be irresponsible, which means that the number of unemployed people is constantly falling in Hungary; now it is only 3.8 percent and the number of jobs is constantly increasing. I seem to recall that this was not the case at your time, since there was a 12 percent unemployment rate. I accept that you are now clinging to the recommendation of the Council of the European Union [[Gergely Arató: Commission!]] and politically attacking the government, but the reality is what we feel in Hungary. And it is quite clear that our country, the economy, is going in the right direction. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative Bernadett Wind and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who will the government conclude a new agreement with? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman Schmuck if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-06-04-127	Thank you very much, Mr President, we will wait for the Prime Minister.
u2018-06-04-128	Desiring Good Expectation [[Defiance.]] I would like to ask Mr Szabolcs Szabó, representative of the LMP, who wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question instead of the Honourable Parliament, when can we finally travel in Csepel with a modern Hev, able to keep the timetable? Mr Péter Cseresnyés has appointed Minister of State to reply on the basis of his urgent public duty. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Of course I accept.]] It's for the congressman. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, My constituency includes Csepel, where 75,000 people live, and one of the most important and even the most important community transport links to the downtown is the Csepel HÉV, which serves not only the inhabitants of Csepel but also the inhabitants of the agglomeration ring south of Csepel. The number of take-off passengers is about 50,000 per day. So it's a really big traffic vehicle. Unfortunately, however, it is very outdated, the track was last touched between 1996 and 2000, the majority of the trains are more than 40 years old, and another part is more than 50 years old. The overall result was that a week and a half ago, the number of trains had fallen out of circulation due to tyre cracks, that the flights had to be very thin, and in many cases only three-car trains were used instead of six-car trains. I myself have experienced the fact that there is a very large crowd, there is a tumult, it is simply unsustainable, the situation that has now developed in this antiquated museum HÉV. The people of Csepel are right to demand what will happen to me as a congressman. But you are on the government, so I'd like to ask what the government will do to save the HÉV, which plays a decisive role in the transport of the inhabitants of Csepel. When, in particular, will you start renovating the track, and when will it be ready? When, in particular, will a public procurement procedure be launched for new low-floor vehicles? [[16.20]] When do these trains appear? Let me know whether or not, Secretary of State, that the solution will not be to send Desiros to Ráckeve HÉV, and Csepel will receive the museum flights from Ráckeve HÉV there, and then it will be fixed, because we do not want that, Csepelians. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply.
u2018-06-04-130	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Cherry, two minutes.
u2018-06-04-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We've started the job. [[Intervention from opposition lines: Eight years!]] I'd like to inform you. MÁV-HÉV Zrt. In February of this year, he informed the Ministry of National Development that continuous technical tests showed material fatigue and increased corrosion in M9a-type vehicles, which, however, do not require immediate emergency intervention. Nevertheless, our colleagues started the work, because as a result of this examination or these continuous tests, it was noticeable that it was necessary to be prepared because the state of the vehicles requires that we carry out vehicle allocation tasks and that we have tasks ahead of us, and that we need work that might affect the current timetable. After these indications, the Ministry ordered that the technical specifications of the new HÉV vehicle be drawn up, which the MÁV-HÉV Zrt. It was also prepared by the deadline of 31 May 2006. Currently, vehicle regroupings can ensure the maintenance of the service, and the necessary immediate vehicle renewal activities have been started by the company. Of course, since we see that this does not satisfy the proper public service provision, the Government's proposal for a resolution to renew the technical equipment park of the HÉV, which will soon be discussed by the government, and it is expected that a decision will be taken at this government meeting. Once the tender is awarded, it is expected that new vehicles will appear on this line of the VAT.
u2018-06-04-132	Thank you very much. Congressman, one minute.
u2018-06-04-133	Thank you for the floor. In Csepel, we often hear that now we're getting to work, and now it's all starting. Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply, but I would like to ask for specific dates in the one minute available as to the month in which the work starts at the renewal of the course. In what month of which year in particular can we expect the new vehicle to appear? Because when I come in in the morning and I come home at night, that's what the voters ask me, and I have something to say to them. And if I tell you that the tender will be announced now, they'll laugh at me and ask me not to side with it. That's why I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State to give me specifics, if I could, because it would help me do my job. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-134	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary's rejoinder, one minute.
u2018-06-04-135	Thank you very much, Mr President, but you do not think that I am so irresponsible that I am making a promise that I am not sure that can be observed, especially in view of the fact that we are at the beginning of the work. Now, as has been said in the first two minutes, it is precisely the state of affairs that is being assessed and the specifications that will be necessary for the future tender procedure, and this is preceded by a government decision that will provide these financial resources and opportunities. I ask you to wait for the government's decision, the government's referral, and then you will probably be able to better determine the dates for the renewal of this HÉV line and for the acquisition of the vehicles there.
u2018-06-04-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:, Is the Government really that unimaginable? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it.
u2018-06-04-137	Yeah. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-138	Here you go.
u2018-06-04-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the hearing of László Palkovics' presidential candidates, we were pleasantly disappointed for a moment because his slides included some ideas about basic income, and if there is a Ministry responsible for innovation, it is very right that they are also dealing with one of the most important social innovations, I thought. For years, the Dialogue has argued that the basic income would be a good solution to many of the problems of the Hungarian people, as in Hungary millions suffer from uncertainty, poverty, lack of prospects, but the increasing inequalities also reduce economic development, reduce revenues for businesses, the middle class, lead to emigration in the short term and, in the long term, to the collapse of the pension system. In addition, the fourth industrial revolution, robotisation, has started, resulting in 54 percent of Hungarian jobs disappearing over the next one or two decades, and they could replace more than half a million workers with robots overnight. Therefore, innovative public policy solutions such as basic income, robot tax, working time reduction must also be addressed. It seems that Minister Palkovic has recognised this, and it is therefore regrettable that he has proved to be so uninformed on this issue. Now I quote from the Commission protocol, my question was answered by the Minister-designate that the basic income did not work either in Hungary, and I think that when, say, our support system was aid-based, it did not work well, it was a kind of basic income. The fact is that the basic income does not, in the least, follow the logic of aid, on the contrary. In the case of aid, the beneficiary loses his former support, which leads to a poverty trap, while in the case of basic income, this entitlement is paid in addition to the income of the labour force. This means that basic income is not counter-incentive to employment. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] This is one of the main benefits of aid. My question to the Secretary of State or the entire Ministry is: can we wait? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To learn about basic income and other innovative public policy solutions, or to continue to be XIX-XX. The 21st century tried to solve the problem by means of 21st century tools. 100th-century problems? Thank you.
u2018-06-04-140	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés has the right to reply.
u2018-06-04-141	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I could easily answer your question now and the subject you have been pressuring, if I say that you have put your question in the wrong place, because this is employment policy in the first place. Especially when, in light of what you say is true, it can even encourage people to work if they have a basic income. In Finland, this question was raised, and the basic income was introduced as an experiment, but I am not sure that the end of this will come with a positive sign. After a few months, very serious questions were raised about the outcome of this experiment. We've got news like this, we've got the opposite news, we've got the end of it, we've got the results of this experiment. However, in one case, your two-minute speech was very important, because we have heard a clear speech from you and you. He promises to give free money to anyone without a job. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP:]] , who is a Hungarian citizen. With the money of Hungarian taxpayers, they would give this money free of charge, with the money of taxpayers who earn these forints with very hard work and expect us to improve public services from their taxes, improve schools, improve hospitals and improve our everyday environment. I think that if we go a little further with this idea that you have raised, then it can be said that it could actually be a cause if we were to introduce it here in Hungary, the migration that has already started towards Western Europe, because it is free money in the event that someone could acquire citizenship, and on this basis they could legitimately claim this. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] basic income. So I guess we kept saying that from work [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We want people to earn income, and we want to keep to it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-142	Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2018-06-04-143	Thank you. It seems that at least Finland's example has been read up a little bit, so the experiment has not yet been completed. The Minister said it's already turned out that it doesn't work. Wrong! Experiments have been conducted in dozens of countries, with positive results everywhere. If you're trying to do this free money stunt, I'm afraid we're not gonna make it from one to two, so instead of political propaganda and stupid mantras, a little reading, a little research, a little research, a little research would do a lot of good. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We should be more modest!]] And then perhaps they could find new and working answers to serious social problems that are stressing Hungarian people. [[16.30]] But you seem to be interested only in power policy, not in public policy, social policy, economic policy, employment policy. And I wish that was the case, that public money was spent on the development of public services, education, health or the environment. But the thing is, they are being stolen and the public services are being rotted at the same time and the money is being withdrawn from the social system or employment policy. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-144	Thank you, too. One minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-04-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, How do I put this? It takes a lot of self-confidence when someone thinks they're the only one who reads, only he's the one who knows the truth. I think we're used to discussing things. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] And it's not always you, or it's not always us, that we're right about a certain matter. Mr. Secretary, you didn't say what you quoted because this experiment would have been completed. You can simply see that it will not lead to results. And it is no coincidence that the Finnish government only introduced this as a model program for 2 000 people, because they had a suspicion that the result might not be good. By the way, I don't think that you or your party are making a statement, but it doesn't mean that you're right. There has been such a party in this Parliament, and it turned out that they were wrong about nothing, even at the very expense of this country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-146	Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Bóna, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what difficulties do opposition parties and the organisations of George Soros, who are regularly protected by them, cause in the fight against migration? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-06-04-147	Yes, thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-148	Here you go.
u2018-06-04-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With respect to the clear, unified opinions of the millions who participated in the national consultation and referendum, the Hungarian Government has taken up the fight in every possible forum with all available means to protect our country. The results of the April 2018 election clearly show that people support and expect to continue the measures taken to protect the country. The governing parties were left alone at the beginning of the migration crisis and could not count on any party of the opposition to defend our borders. The MSZP called immigration a fake problem, according to Jobbik, this is a failure, the failure of the government's immigration policy, Ferenc Gyurcsány proudly announced that he would accept the EU quota, which he even initiated to collect signatures, Tamás Meserics of the LMP declared that his party could not imagine the solution to the crisis other than the introduction of a compulsory quota system. Their words were followed, as the left-wing opposition did not support the proposal in Parliament in November 2015 to challenge the compulsory resettlement quota before the European Court of Justice, and Jobbik, together with the left, did not support the amendment of the basic law providing higher protection against immigration, in breach of its prior promise. Politicalisation against the will of the people has resulted from the opposition part, as the ruling parties, which consistently represent immigration policy, have been given an overwhelming mandate to further represent the interests of the Hungarian people. Dear Secretary of State, The opposition does not wish to support the Stop Soros legislative package and the amendment of the Fundamental Law in order to protect George Soros's organisations, once again against the electoral will. I ask Mr Secretary of State what difficulties opposition parties and the organisations of György Soros, who are regularly protected by them, cause in the fight against migration. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2018-06-04-150	Secretary of State, two minutes, please.
u2018-06-04-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The fact that they caused difficulties was apparent at the 2016 amendment of the Constitution when virtually no opposition party was willing to vote for greater protection of the country, even though we had already passed the quota referendum at that time, so it was due to the fact that such an amendment was in line with the will of the vast majority of voters. In order to protect Hungary, therefore, an action plan is needed, and this action plan is embodied in the Stop Soros legislative package. The Hungarian people rightly expect the government to act by every means against illegal immigration and activities that facilitate it. This is the purpose of the package of laws, which also punishes the organisation of illegal immigration. On 29 May 2018, the Government therefore submitted the seventh amendment to the Fundamental Law, the main purpose of which is to protect national sovereignty. Some of the provisions of the proposed amendment to the Fundamental Law, as I mentioned, have already been debated in the House, but the opposition parties have backed out from behind it; I can only confirm that once again. The amendment of the Fundamental Law consists of ten articles, essentially three themes, the first of which is the protection of constitutional identity and the rules on asylum. This amendment was made necessary by the fact that Europe and Hungary are facing new challenges that justify strengthening our national sovereignty. Therefore, the National Confession is added as an obligation to the bodies of the State to protect constitutional identity. In the context of the European Union, the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms should be in line with the Fundamental Law and Hungary's right to provide for territorial unity, population, state form and state settlement of the country should not be limited. It prohibits the introduction of the foreign population and thus preserves Hungary's traditions.
u2018-06-04-152	Thank you very much. Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2018-06-04-153	Thank you very much for your answer. We can see that the stakes are huge. We have two choices: we allow people with different cultures and values coming from migration, and like many states in Western Europe, we become an immigrant country, where the number of crimes is increasing, women are exposed to abuse, anti-Semitic incidents become commonplace, where parallel societies are built, applying their own imported laws to the host country, and where the symbols of Christian culture are subject to constant attacks. But there is another way, represented by the Government of Hungary and the parties behind it. We want to keep our country a free, independent and Hungarian country. We believe in nation states, the protection of borders, traditional family values, the inalienable right to decide who we want to live with. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-154	Mr. Secretary's rejoinder in one minute.
u2018-06-04-155	Thank you. At last Wednesday, May 30, 2018 the opposition did not support the government's proposals, which consider the security of the country to be the priority. Nevertheless, we count on the support of all Members of Parliament who are important for the security of this country. However, organisations of the Soros empire have repeatedly, as they do now, declared their displeasure with the bill, since they have no interest in preventing the organisation of migration, and therefore Hungary's protection is not important to them. With the emblematic players of the Soros network, a great deal of force has already moved against the legislative package and the same organisations that are somehow involved and interested in organising migration to Europe are protesting. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For us, Hungary and the security of the Hungarian people remain the first. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-04-156	Thank you. I'll give the floor to Congressman Mirkóczki, but it's not enough because he doesn't want to talk to me, so it's a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Gergely Gulyás arrives in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Member Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is more important: money or the will of the Hungarian people? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I ask Congressman Mirkóczki if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-06-04-157	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-06-04-158	Yeah. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2018-06-04-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Although you were not present, continuing the polemia of previous immediate questions and answers, this time in the spirit of truth, it has been said here in countless cases, within a sentence several times, who did not vote for what. However, it is clear that you have been pursuing a strong anti-immigration policy and rhetoric in the communication space for a number of years. They constantly refer to national consultation, to a particular referendum and to the various votes of the opposition. On the other hand, what you are not talking about during these years, between June 2013 and July 2017 no less than 20,000 rich migrants were allowed into this country with the help of settlement bonds. If we start from the perceived or real national security risks, you will dare to state that there are no Zaid Naffa or Ghaith Pharaon among these 20,000 people, for whom it is no longer necessary to describe the risks they actually pose. The amendment of the basic law of Jobbik, which you have referred to so much, which fell here in 2016, within the walls of the house, had an amendment of the same basic law, which is exactly the same, supplementing it with the fact that no immigrants could come for money, so it would have required the abolition of the settlement bonds. You voted for this amendment of the basic law no less than seven times. The question is given, given that this scheme is still under suspension, there is reason to believe that money remains dear to them and can reactivate it at any moment, but in that case you must answer the question of what is more important to you, the security of the country or the money. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-160	Thank you very much. Minister Gergely Gulyás, please.
u2018-06-04-161	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, When I first read this question from Jobbik about what was more important, money or the will of the Hungarian people, I thought it would be a self-critical question, meaning Jobbik tells me why he has been more important in many ways in recent years to support money and various oligarchs than the will of the people, but I had to acknowledge that unfortunately there was no public confession. He is interested in a programme that has not existed for 15 months, so no one can buy a settlement policy since March of last year. We have often said that when this procedure was introduced, the country's financing, including the repayment of the IMF loan, was made possible under the most favourable conditions. We have made it clear that we do not support immigration in Hungary; illegal and uncontrolled immigration is a threat to Europe. Otherwise, this risk was not present in this programme, since everyone was subject to multiple national security controls. But this program hasn't existed in 15 months. The amendment to the Constitution has been resubmitted. This is the opportunity for Jobbik to prove for the second time that it is able to take a stand against immigration in a national case. I would like to say that Gábor Vona is no longer president of Jobbik, but it was Gábor Vona who said that, knowing the original text of the amendment to the basic law, that whoever does not support it is a traitor. After that, Jobbik didn't support it. I don't want to draw the logical conclusion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-162	One minute, Congressman, please.
u2018-06-04-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In this logic, you are traitors seven times, and we are only once, if that were true, as you have said. But let's continue with the meaningful dialogue, if I may. You said that this particular scheme was important because of the country's funding. Then let's add that the country's funding was so good that in four years, this great construction was worth HUF 17.5 billion, while the offshore companies employed had calculated HUF 156.2 billion. As far as national security clearance is concerned, as you know, as we all do here, that this is merely a run on international wanted lists, these people are not subject to substantive national security screening. And if we take into account the will of the people, then you think that the people involved in the national consultation, who are always referred to, or in the referendum, the people who support your question, who are always referred to, what do they say about this settlement policy, which, I add, is only suspended but not abolished. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-164	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Minister.
u2018-06-04-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman is fighting a programme that does not exist today. It's worth finishing. Instead, it is worth voting in favour of a constitutional amendment that has not previously been supported. Despite the fact that Gábor Vona described this behavior as treason, they did not support it. I would like to say that this is not a standard for us, but until now I thought that Gábor Vona's word was at least a standard for Jobbik. If that's the case, now's the time to prove it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-166	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask an immediate question to Minister Zsolt Semjén without a wallet:. National integration must also be strengthened in young people. The Minister appointed Mr. Miklós Soltész as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congressman, he accepts the response. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, two minutes.
u2018-06-04-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It has been mentioned several times today on the 4th of June, the day of national solidarity, the tragedy that took place 98 years ago. In October 2010, the House adopted a resolution that the government should draw up a national programme to ensure that at least once, with the support of the Hungarian state, all Hungarian students studying in public education reach the Hungarian residential areas of neighbouring countries and that as many Hungarian students from abroad can reach Hungary as possible through exchanges. That's how he started the Unlimited! a program where tens of thousands of mothers' seventh graders, high school students, students' students can reach a connected area, discover the beauty of Transylvania, Southern Hungary, Upper Suburbs, Transcarpathia or even Muravidék, and visit places known from their literary or historical studies, and meet young Hungarians who are living and studying there. In addition, young people across the border will also have the opportunity to come to Hungary, where they can spend a few days in a small training course, either in the capital or in other parts of the country. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Christian Democratic Member, I believe that it is in the common interest of all of us to implement similar initiatives, because it is important for us that, in addition to dual citizenship, a relationship based on personal experiences, should be the basis of solidarity. Young people should develop this in school age, so that the growing generation will be able to take responsibility for our Hungarian brothers and sisters across the border. The Unlimited! Proposal is very popular, continuous simplification, extension of eligible costs all help students exit and reduce school administration. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, knowing the success of the programme so far and fully identifying with its objectives when to start this year's excursions, and how many schoolchildren have applied for the programme in the already closed rounds of applications. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-04-168	Thank you very much. Secretary Soltes, please.
u2018-06-04-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, today he asked the question, which, on one side, is pain and sadness in the life of the Hungarian nation, about the 98th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, and on the other, obviously the past decades have shown that there is something to be done, not just to be bitter. Therefore, today, I think that the day of national solidarity has proved, for eight years, that this other thought was needed, in which many stories and programmes that represented the union of the nation were realized, which was needed in the life of the nation. Such is the granting of dual citizenship, such as the extension of grants for schools, social institutions, churches or even for the implementation of economic programmes that help to stay in place. And such is indeed the Unlimited! implementation of a program that works back and forth. The travel of Hungarian students to foreign territories with teachers and students from abroad, as well as Hungarians living in diaspora, helps them to travel to Hungary. Therefore, it is certainly a pleasure to say that, based on the experience we have had since 2013, the initial grant of HUF 400 million has increased to more than 4.2 billion over the last few years, the initial 12,000 students have increased to 55 thousand students by 2017, and in 2018 we expect 66 thousand students from Hungary to travel abroad, even from abroad, in response to their question. [[16.50]] Thousands of people have applied for the summer excursions, and most of the class trips start in the fall. Thank you very much for all those who have helped us so much. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to the teachers in Hungary and, of course, to the foreigners as well. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-170	Congressman Nacsa's rejoinder in a minute.
u2018-06-04-171	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. It's good to hear that these excursions are about to start again this year. We also believe that it is very important to give young people this experience of belonging, as today our national tragedy, Trianon, was 98 years ago when millions of our countrymen came to the neighborhood of their own country. Since then, time has tried to heal this wound and grief with more or less success, but unfortunately and outrageously in 2004 the socialist-liberal government and politics of that time betrayed our Hungarian brothers on December 5th. In 2010, one of the first decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP majority was the creation of a national unification. Since then, we have welcomed over 1 million new Hungarian citizens. Since then, cross-border communities have been supported by church, educational, cultural and economic development. We can be proud of our nation, so it can be said that, after the mourning, we can work with responsibility in the present and look to the future, because here in the Carpathian Basin, as we know, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the future is written in Hungarian. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-172	The Secretary of State will rejoin you in a minute.
u2018-06-04-173	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Thank you for this suggestion, Mr President, because indeed, the referendum of 5 December 2004, which was a failure and a horror in the life of the Hungarian nation, especially in the life of the cross-border parts of the nation, may have been cured by the results of the 2010 series of decisions, even on dual citizenship, but on this system we have introduced. After all, it was important that many of the voters of Hungary were pushed away from the vote of dual citizenship by enviousness, but it is important that we now prove to the children, young people and the growing generation that there have been fellow nations living nearly a hundred years in a very disadvantaged situation beyond our borders who, under all circumstances, have kept their faith, their Hungarian language and their culture. I'm sure [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] all of this will continue to serve to help stay in place. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-174	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å How many evictions can be expected after the moratorium expires? Do you support not putting families with children on the streets without accommodation? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[On the sign of Lajos Korózs:]] He'll take it. It's the congressman's turn, here you go.
u2018-06-04-175	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is well known here to most Members that in 2017 there were nearly 4 thousand evictions in Hungary. It is commendable that the government extended the eviction moratorium. Of course, I do not assume that this had anything to do with the parliamentary elections, but in any case, this date was extended until 30 April. Actually, eviction dumping started on May 1st, not just in any way. We see from the news that families with small children are being evicted from their homes in a rather ordeal. It can also be seen that the private failure that the Christian Democratic People's Party had just submitted a few years ago does not really know how to deal with these problems. The answers the government has been thinking about over the years are not very good. I must also mention the state asset management institution, which we do not even know if it is still working. And I would also like to mention that a few years ago it was the Orbán government that abolished the normative housing support system, and that it also abolished the debt management service as a normative supply aid. I would therefore like to address some questions to the Secretary of State. One is how many bank claims enforcement procedures are under way. I'd like to ask you how much eviction is expected after the moratorium expires. By what means do you intend to support families on the street? And I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary, if you're in favour of putting families with children on the street without being placed on the streets. I would also like to ask how many people are affected by the private bankrupt institution in Hungary today. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-176	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds.
u2018-06-04-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You've kept a lot of things quiet, you've washed a lot of things up, but I'm trying to fix them. The government's goal is to provide help to all those in trouble, especially families with children who need it the most. What you don't see is that it doesn't work, it's not called a government asset manager anyway, it's a National Asset Manager, so we voted about it in Parliament - it's a word that can be said that it's national - so far it's been able to help 35 thousand families, about 100,000 people, by taking over their debts and living as tenants in the apartment in which they used to own, they just overtaxed, and they couldn't sustain themselves or their property. The State has helped, and this is a very effective construction, because they can replace loans in these agreements with a much larger amount than they actually cost, so the State can make more debt out of less money. There was the possibility of end-payment, which helped many people to find a safe housing position after their foreign exchange credit. There was the exchange barrier and the fixed exchange rate, which also helped families. More than a thousand people have already been able to use the institution of family bankruptcy. Nor is it real, honourable Member, that the possibility of normative support for housing or payment of debt has ceased to exist, as you know very well, but you have only now deliberately silenced the fact that they continue to live as so-called municipal aid, and this is how the municipalities provide opportunities for families in distress. More than HUF 30 billion is the line in the budget that the state is handing over to municipalities to help those who are in trouble in the form of municipal support, and precisely for the purposes that you have said, this can help families. And there's a discreet charm that the representative of the government that drove people into foreign exchange loans [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and therefore caused a huge housing crisis [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches:]] Then he asks the government to help families in five, six, eight or ten ways. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-04-178	In a minute, Congressman, please.
u2018-06-04-179	If my memories are correct, the currency loan was introduced by your government at the end of 2001 [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You had a party together!]] But you're the Secretary of State to put things right. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Party together, children! It's a coalition! The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] I would have waited, Mr. Secretary, for you to correct your thoughts on eviction for families with children. Unfortunately, Szabó Timea also mentioned it in his speech before the agenda, and he also had a motion before the Parliament, not even allowed the last week of the spring session to be on the agenda here in the Parliament, with the question that families with children cannot be evicted in Hungary without accommodation. I believe that this is also required by the human race, and that does not require either a pro-government representative or a secretary of state. And I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, the end-payment and the price barrier on these people, these families, you couldn't help a bit. I am very sorry that you feel that way about this. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-180	Thank you. Secretary of State's rejoinder in a minute.
u2018-06-04-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm sorry that you've withdrawn the opportunity from those who have been able to escape the trap of foreign exchange lending by way of a final payment or a price barrier. [[Lajos Korózs: I didn't say that!]] You have never supported these proposals here in Parliament. Those people wouldn't have been helped, but we want to help everyone. This is what family bankruptcy is all about, for example; this is what the National Asset Manager is all about to keep everyone's housing. Or that was what the housing program was about, which also tried to help families in a difficult situation due to foreign exchange lending in Budapest. So these were all for this purpose, honourable Member. We did not offer foreign exchange loans to families between 1998 and 2002, but interest-supported forint loans, which Péter Medgyessy closed in several steps between 2002 and 2004 and encouraged people to lend foreign currency instead. This caused the problem, which, as with all other problems, remained on Fidesz-KDNP to solve it. You caused the problem. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] just as the country was indebted, and then the solution and repayment of the loans remained with the Fidesz-KDNP government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]] [[17.00]]
u2018-06-04-182	Dear Parliament, With this, the discussion of immediate questions has come to an end today. Dear Parliament, I declare that, at the initiative of the Group of the LMP, the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee will take place at the end of today's meeting in the 21st Chamber of the Parliament. Now, at 4:59 p.m., we move to the agenda of oral questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice: "What about the court system? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2018-06-04-183	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP two thirds, it is almost certain that administrative courts will be set up in Hungary. All we know at the moment is that the framework provisions will be introduced into the Fundamental Law and it will be stated that there will be an administrative supreme court which will share the main judicial tasks with the Mansion. It is certainly not good for the timing that fidesz leaders expressed a very harsh criticism of the Curia not so long ago, including the fact that the Curia took away a parliamentary mandate from Fidesz. Interestingly, the arguments that Minister Trócsányi used to argue in connection with the objectionable actions of the National Court Office and Tünde Hando, namely that the government should not interfere with the functioning of the courts. But let's put the facts aside and start by saying that you really want to bring back the system of administrative courts with historical traditions. In this case, too, there are a number of questions about how, in addition to the basic legislative framework, administrative courts would like to operate. Will the future administrative judges be closer in status to an independent judge or a public official? How exactly will the appointment of judges develop? Is the past in public administration really going to be such a competitive advantage that everyone else almost doesn't stand a chance of filling the position? Are administrative courts planned to be integrated under the OBH system, or, if not, who will decide exactly who, for example, will be the head of the administrative court? Do they even think about single-person or corporate administration? Dear Secretary of State, I would like your substantive answers to these questions so that we can see more clearly about the future of administrative courts. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-184	Thank you very much. Secretary Pál Völner, two minutes!
u2018-06-04-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, The set of questions I have received is significantly beyond the framework for giving a meaningful answer in two minutes. However, it can also be seen that the current amendment to the basic law includes the possibility of creating a higher administrative court, which was a living part of the Hungarian legal system until 1949. So, in this sense, an old element of the judicial system would actually be returned to regulation. As far as the judicial administration system is concerned, this is the part of the issue: since 1990, we are now in the third model. In practice, Minister of State has set up a working committee dealing with the scientific and professional processing of this issue, what is the advantage, what is the disadvantage of which model is, and at the same time they are dealing with the creation of a higher administrative court - we know that we have adopted the law on administrative litigation, what this organisation should look like - and we are actually looking to this working committee for proposals relating on the one hand to the administrative court organisation. Obviously, a comparative analysis of the functioning and development of these in neighbouring countries within the Union must be carried out. At the same time, the judicial self-management model has always lived in Hungary since 1990, regardless of which organisation has performed these tasks in administrative matters, OBH or the OIT, or even the Ministry. So I can't really answer that part of the question, and I apologize in advance, so we're ahead of it. With regard to the selection of judges: of course, in the future, it will always be the judicial self-management organisation that makes the professional appeals, regardless of who is responsible for the administration, from whom it will be possible to choose. So in that sense, there is no need to worry about judicial independence and professionalism. As regards the role of the public administration: one third of the judges in neighbouring Austria, for example, should be selected. Therefore, this practice is not alien, but such a condition is not included in the current legislation. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-186	Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. According to the plans prepared, the construction of the missing cycling route between the settlements of Klárafalva-Kisombor will be completed. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-04-187	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President, I don't know who's answering. You're Secretary of State... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Not that I know of.]]
u2018-06-04-188	Secretary Völner will answer.
u2018-06-04-189	Then, Honourable Secretary of State, I read it everywhere in brochures, news, legislation. [[Peter Cseresnyés to the president: I think it's mine!]] That the government considers the development of the bicycle road network as a priority, which I, as a representative, support myself. I would like to see the same priority given to improving the state of domestic roads. In the previous term, I contacted Minister Lazarus, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who, by the way, entrusted Secretary of State Csepreghy with the task of providing some source for the construction of a bicycle route between Klárafalva and Kisombor, or to look at how this could be accomplished. And this is interesting, because between Szeged and Mako, to the border of Desk, and between Mako and Kisombor, there was only a few kilometres between it, and that's why I talked about the missing bicycle route. Then the Secretary of State welcomed the mayors of the settlements concerned, and plans were made for this, but the bicycle route was not built. EU resource, EU support for bicycle road development is available. The inhabitants of the settlements concerned miss this development themselves and demand it, as do the mayors of the settlements concerned. In addition, I think that if this missing bicycle route were to be built, it would also have a huge tourist attraction in the settlements between Mako and Szeged between Tisza-Maros. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether the Ministry will then provide EU funding for the construction of this missing bicycle route, especially with plans for this. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-04-190	Thank you very much. By the way, not Völner, but Secretary of State Cseresnyés will answer according to the profession. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-191	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The distance between Szeged and Mako near main road 43 is currently 9,5 km long, as has been said, concerning Klárafalva, Ferencszállás and Kiszombor. In addition to the construction of the bicycle route, there are also network and road safety arguments. Building permits for the completion of the missing bicycle route are already partially available. The estimated cost of execution is HUF 1 billion. However, the resources available for the development of bicycle infrastructure in the operational programmes of the 2014-20 EU development cycle and the Hungarian-Romanian cross-border cooperation programme have already been committed and committed to other areas. In Csongrád county, cycling facilities can be built from around HUF 5 billion, which are at least as important as the indicated bicycle route you have proposed. Any local government could apply for the calls for proposals, so they won on other roads and became successful proposals for municipalities. In the absence of available Union support, it is necessary to examine the domestic source of the necessary devotion to this resource. So we're looking at this, and hopefully we'll be able to make the investigation work, and we'll be able to create a source for this bicycle route in the next period. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-192	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: what does the Government intend to do about the growing debt of hospitals. The Secretary of State of Retvár will answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-193	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As a former hospital director, I wanted to address health managers who, as the heads of the Heim Pál Hospital, the National Institute of Oncology, were themselves able to experience the crippling and disillusioning effects of hospital debts generated by underfunding. As is well known to you, the so-called hospital debt started to rise rapidly in the first third of this year. [[17.10]] In four months, the medical institutions managed to bring together 32.5 billion debts, almost two thirds of last year's total debt. Mr. Secretary. Of course, my first question is when the debts of hospitals will be settled. However, this issue is easily misunderstood because it makes it look like it's going to be a bad institutional economy for which the budget has to last. In fact, however, this problem is systemic, because hospitals do not receive the funding they will receive for carrying out their duties, for which they have actually worked. Instead, as a lordly father, the budget reaches into his pocket from time to time and, as a prodigal child, pays off the debts of the medical institutions. So I'm asking you, when will the government be willing to face the problem and settle the funding system for the medical institutions. When will you finally acknowledge that this is not just a question of budget lines, but of patients to be cared for? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] who are often unable to properly deal with by doctors in the absence of the necessary conditions? Thank you.
u2018-06-04-194	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2018-06-04-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, I believe that if you are talking about hospital debt here in Parliament, you may also have personal experience, because when you handed over the management of St. Imre Hospital in 2011, instead of the 300-350 million forints known to the public, the hospital's new management found a billion forints of debt, which, among other things, may have been so much greater than the previous one, since it wasn't recorded centrally how much debt was accumulated by the hospital. And when the hospital's new management looked at the amount of money available in the hospital with more than 600 beds, it met 295 HUF 299 as liquid money, which was less than HUF 500 per hospital bed. You had a suggestion in this area, namely the visit fee and hospital daily allowance; Ferenc Gyurcsány was one of the most enthusiastic supporters at the time, and he seems to be now. It seems that you, who, so to say, have been political in this area in DK or MSZP, have never seen health as a public service, but a problem to be outsourced, which can be privatised, but in no way in the state, to carry this issue well. This is also reflected in the hospital closure wave, which is linked to the closure of the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, the closure of OPNI, the closure of Szabolcs Street Hospital, the closure of Schöpf-Mere Hospital, which has provided enormous help to countless families. On the other hand, we believe in hospital development and in supporting the various efficiency improvements of hospitals. Even in the last year, the amount you said could be used partly for hospital debt settlement, and partly for efficiency-enhancing purposes to prevent future debt generation, such structural or operational changes. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'll continue from here, thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-196	Thank you very much. Next time, because there's no follow-up here on questions. Dear Parliament, Thus, we will continue with the speech of Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the representative of the LMP wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. After their 8 years, what measures are planned to reduce the pressure on the environment of Ferenc Liszt International Airport? Mr Péter Cseresznyés Secretary of State will be waiting for your question.
u2018-06-04-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the tasks of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is the supervision of the Aviation Authority, which is involved in the development of a system of use and use of the airspace in Hungary, the designation of noise protection zones related to airports and the investigation of noise complaints arising from air transport. From those living near Liszt Ferenc Airport, thousands of people receive mass and increasingly desperate complaints from the public due to the noise load that is unbearable day and night, air pollution, especially during several weeks of track locks. In addition to constant stress and chronic health problems, it is common that the turbulence of the planes above their heads breaks down the roofs of family houses, and I have seen them myself, and the tiles fall into the gardens and the streets. Even in the midst of the four walls, the situation is intimidating, selling, and switching is hopeless, and the property is lost. A number of court cases have been launched from local and civil initiatives, because noise load calculation methods cannot handle the outstanding values of short-term but high-pressure flights for residents, since averaging covers individual noise events. But more importantly, the aviation and environmental authorities do not even claim compliance with the existing environmental requirements, not even a single environmental impact assessment has been carried out at the airport, and it has been operating without environmental authorisation for years while continuing to expand its activities. Dear Secretary of State, After the missing eight years, what measures are the wallet and the FAA planning to take to reduce the pressure on the environment of the Liszt Ferenc International Airport? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-198	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, two minutes.
u2018-06-04-199	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the location of the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport and the orientation of its runways according to the prevailing wind direction, the noise of air traffic, unfortunately, has to be said to inevitably burden the residential areas of the capital and surrounding settlements. In order to monitor aviation noise, the aerodrome operator shall operate a modern noise monitoring system that continuously detects and records background noise, the actual noise load of aircraft and other sources of noise, and shall verify compliance with the relevant regulatory limit values. On 23 February 2016, the aviation authority definitively designated the airport's noise protection zone, which includes environmentally sound flight procedures, limitations, measures designed to reduce ground noise, restrictions on night operations over Budapest and the timing of noise protection tasks related to property. According to the noise monitoring system, the noise load from the flight is lower than the limit values even in populated areas closer to the aerodrome. The aerodrome operator and the organisation responsible for air traffic control shall continuously carry out the noise reduction tasks and actions it is required to perform and voluntarily undertaken. Therefore, I have to say that it is a government objective to ensure that the airport operates in a way that fundamentally determines the development of the region by taking possible steps to mitigate the negative effects of air traffic. Along with this intention and determination, I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-200	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question on the title of the subway replacement. András Orbán, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Instead of the M3 metro, on weekends and evenings, between Kőbánya-Kispest and the border road stop, the metro bus runs in Vak Bottyán Street. On the whole line there are around 500,000 passengers per day, which is otherwise the daily passenger traffic of MÁV. As a result, the road section is in catastrophic condition, the motorists sink to the axis in a pothole and the concrete debris from the pothole bounces on pedestrians. The number and size of potholes are increasing day by day. The street is so narrow that in the event of traffic coming up, the last-minute spotted pothole cannot be avoided, but only emergency brake, which is also dangerous. A complete reconstruction is likely to take place only after the subway supply, and until then they will be able to repair the dangerous potholes. The Budapest Public Road subsequently acknowledged that the section of the road was not suitable for those subway busses, but that the district did not have enough money to renovate the municipal-owned street, and the negotiations are currently under way to see what the solution would be. Péter Gajda, mayor of Kispest, wrote to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán at the beginning of March asking that the relevant section of the road be transferred to the management of the Municipality of Budapest by amending the government decree. [[17.20]] In addition, the mayor also contacted Mayor István Tarlós, who was asked for a cooperation agreement. They haven't made a decision in three months, only promises. What are you waiting for? How long are they waiting? If you have not prepared your subway line well in advance and acknowledged, do you not intend to solve the dangerous situation that you have created? Don't you think there's serious personal injuries? Doesn't it count for you to see the deterioration in property? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-06-04-202	You won't have to wait long, because Secretary Orbán is responding now. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-203	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, let me express my appreciation for the fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party and the PM, and obviously not regardless of this, the former free Democratic city leadership would like to pass on their experience with metro replacement and metro renewal to the National Conservative Government and the current city leadership, but, on the basis of past experience, the government would kindly follow its own path and would trust the success of cooperation with the current metro leadership. This, in our experience, is much more fruitful and rewarding, because it is about the new metro being completed, and at the moment the renovation of the older metros is under way, which is basically a novel experience compared to the work of previous Balliberal governments and city leaders. But other than that, the question is important, and the government is paying attention to the people in Budapest. I hope that you do not deny that if the state and the local authorities wish to act with the care of a good host, it follows from this requirement that it is more rational to renew the section of the road in question after the completion of the subway and after the completion of the subway replacement. If the renovation took place during the replacement period, it would not make any sense, since the increased burden of replacement would ruin the road again, in which case the good farmer's care would not be fulfilled by the city administration. If we accept this basic position, then there are two things: on the one hand, the road section needs to be constantly improved - as far as I know - and, on the other hand, a complete renovation is needed after the closure. As far as I know, as you have mentioned, negotiations are taking place in this respect between the municipalities concerned and the capital, or the capital will do its best to achieve this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that the people of Budapest can get through this period as comfortable as possible. The Prime Minister's Office shall give all its support in this respect. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-204	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. It's an address. The Secretary of State of Retvár will answer. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In Fidesz-KDNP, in previous years, we have worked to strengthen families; we have worked to provide as much financial support as possible to families with children; and we wanted to achieve the goal, and we want to achieve it now and in the future, so that it does not represent a financial disadvantage for families to have children. Our goal is to create a family-friendly country in which everyone feels good, where it is good to be Hungarian, and it is good to be a child and an adult. In order to strengthen this work, we have decided to declare 2018 the year of families. Families and children are at the heart of our policy so far, both now and in the future. Allow me to mention just a few of our many family-friendly measures. We introduced the family tax system, the family tax relief, the 40, the ged extra, and gave the three-year-old child back to the mothers. We provide half a million children with free meals and a free textbook for over a million children. We support families' homes with more money than ever before. Thanks to these measures, there has also been a change in the population trend. The total fertility rate increased to 1.5 in 2017 after reaching a low point of 1,23 in 2011, which represents an increase of more than 20 per cent. We would like to continue this positive turn of events. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State what kind of support we're giving in the future so that as many families as possible can have as many children as possible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and by what means we can further encourage families in the area of childbearing. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-206	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2018-06-04-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think that all of us, both the 10 million and the 15 million, can be proud that in the year of families in Hungary, one of the highest is the support for families, if we compare it to the national total product and look at the different budgets within Europe. This is a sure basis for really building Hungary's future on Hungarian families and not on immigration. To do this, we believe that moral foundations are obviously important, and it is important that, in addition, the state helps families overcome the financial obstacles that, where appropriate, childbearing may be an obstacle to some families. If we look at how we managed to help families with one of the most important breakthroughs, the family-type taxation system, we can see that on average we can leave 253 thousand forints a year with a Hungarian family, we are talking about more than one million families; more than 253 thousand forints is the average that families could save in the new tax system. Obviously, where there are more children, it's much higher. It is also important that more and more people were able to make use of the child up to the age of three, to which the congresswoman referred. If I look at the family's home-building discount, which wasn't before, but the Fidesz-KDNP government created it, we were able to provide a value of HUF 213 billion to 75 thousand families! - a multimillion-forint non-refundable grant that will enable them to build their own home, especially with a new-built family home in which they can move in with the children. If we look at the day care of children, there is a huge improvement here, as this year we are spending HUF 37 billion from the budget on the nursery, which is by magnitude higher than in previous years. And if I may also share with you the experiences of those whose student loans will be paid out as a result of having children, on average: well, those whose debts have been released will have an average of HUF 1,2 to 1.3 million. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We were able to release student loans, which is also very important for young family members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-208	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since at least one representative of each parliamentary group has already asked an oral question, and the combined duration of interpellation and oral questions has exceeded 90 minutes, I am now closing the possibility to ask oral questions on the basis of house rules and moving on to the speeches after the agenda. I encourage you, because there are plenty of them. The first of the speeches after the agenda is Mr Ander Balázs, who resigns from thousands of square kilometres of truncated Hungary. Say your speech with an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A great deal has already been said here today in connection with the attempted murder of the people of 98 years ago, and to the very core, among the walls of this House. There was a talk about the historic and political situation that caused the defeat of the world war; it was also about the internal betrayal that was truly incompetent to Michael Károlyi, the one who may be associated with the most damaging person in Hungarian history; but it was also about how blind the Hungarian political elite was, how he put his head in the sand, how he was not aware of certain things, or how he did not want to face certain things. These things must be taken out now, because if we mourn the thousand-year-old history of Great Hungary, then I must say that gloomy clouds are gathering over the future of our country. Of the regions of the European Union, the poorest of the 263 regions, there are four of the seven domestic regions, including the otherwise narrower Patriam, the tiny village of South Transdanubia, which reaches approximately 44 percent of the EU average on a purchasing power basis, so we are really below the back of the frog. [[17 .30]] Hungary has become a poor house in Europe over the past decades, and within this, we can safely classify the three counties of South-Transdanubian Hungary, whose Hungarian voice would like to continue to be here in the walls of this House. Is there any way out of this terrible situation that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians experience every day there, is there a catch-up? We must say that there is no convergence or, if there is, that convergence is achieved towards the Balkans, that we are sliding down and that the situation of the inhabitants and the settlements there is becoming increasingly hopeless. The research of the University of Debrecen, which touched on a very delicate, very sensitive subject, has recently appeared, and we must also acknowledge that this issue needs to be discussed, but it needs to be spoken constructively, it is nothing more than the population explosion of Gypsy. Over the last two and a half decades, Gypsyism has doubled its population in Hungary by two and a half, and now almost one million people belong to Roma ethnicity in Hungary. If integration goes on like this, as we have seen in recent years, then I must say that there will be real ghetto regions in Hungary: the so-called internal periphery in north-east Hungary and then the so-called internal periphery, and it will certainly become such a ghetto region, if you will. These areas are falling down, and it is no coincidence that the National Association of Municipal Local Governments and the Hungarian Village Association have come up with a plan that rhymes with the programme of the Modern Village, announced by the government, would require HUF 500 billion annually to raise, flourish and save the Hungarian countryside. We support this proposal. Indeed, it is necessary to create life in the Hungarian countryside, yes, that the retention force must be increased, yes, that we must put an end to the very visible ethnic transformation, the accelerating ethnic transformation that the people living there also experience, because if this process reaches the end or reaches a point from which it cannot be reversed, then cultural, economic and social disaster awaits these areas of ethnic closure. We say that yes, we must pay attention to the Hungarian countryside, but this cannot happen in the way that we have experienced it from the government's point of view. The countryside must provide these funds, not for the pals, not for those who profit from it, not for the luxurious parasites who waste the resources from which we should save the thousand-year-old Hungarian countryside and this truncated country. If the government's steps will increase the retention force, if the government is really creating life in the Hungarian countryside, then it must be said that Jobbik will support these ideas constructively, because it is very wrong, ladies and gentlemen, that extreme poverty needs to go back to certain areas of Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And this tearing can be experienced here in the truncated home, not only in the Carpathian Basin. That was what I wanted to say about the mourning anniversary in Trianon. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-210	Thank you. I respectfully ask everyone to respect the time limits of the house rules. Mr. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, on behalf of the government.
u2018-06-04-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The implementation of the 2014-2020 rural development programme, contrary to the statement of the Member, is going well and is at a good pace. In line with the government's development policy goals, the total HUF 1300 billion budget has been announced on the tender, and 95 percent of the funding decisions have already been made for some HUF 1240 billion. This represents a total assessment of 240 thousand rural development proposals, of which some 173 thousand applications have been supported, i.e. three out of four eligible applications have been supported so far. More than 80 percent of the programme's investment framework is supported, which represents more than HUF 570 billion of agricultural investment support, which generate at least the same amount of investment from agricultural operators due to the 50 percent self-esteem. In the framework of the programme, more than HUF 250 billion has been paid to Hungarian rural actors so far. I would like to mention just a few examples of the decisions that have been made so far, the improvements that have been made: some 1900 livestock farms will be renewed nationwide in the amount of HUF 115 billion; some 650 food processing plants will be supported with a grant of HUF 110 billion; gardening investments, agricultural and environmental management programmes will bring countless areas and billions of HUF 274 billion in support to this sector, this programme. Local authorities also receive significant support: external road repair and related machinery procurement are carried out, as well as renovation of municipal buildings and the construction of individual sewage treatment systems. A total of more than 1,800 municipal applications were supported nationwide, amounting to HUF 76 billion. In the area of rural tourism, we helped nearly 700 rural enterprises with HUF 27 billion in support. These figures are the ones that objectively demonstrate the state of implementation of the rural development programme, and I think that arguing with them would be pointless. At the government's initiative, we have had day-to-day debates over recent years on the situation in the domestic countryside, on a common solution to problems. I find it sad that even after this, there are still politicians who issue a certificate of their political and professional narrow-sightedness, expecting only the implementation of the rural development programme and its results to be fully resolved in order to improve the competitiveness of the domestic countryside. Here I could also mention the importance of the various programmes, the second pillar of the CAP, which draws attention to and provides opportunities to support labour-intensive sectors. For domestic rural development, the government is doing everything it can to help catch up. By 2020, direct payments, support for rural development and more jobs in agriculture! As a result of the programme, the Hungarian countryside and the economy can expect some HUF 3800 billion overall. This will be added to the HUF 180 billion national resource, making it close to HUF 4000 billion available for Hungarian agriculture and agricultural and rural development. But let us not forget the potential of the European Union's catching-up programmes, as well as the historical government measures in the Hungarian countryside, we can also take this into account. We can remember the land for farmers! We have discussed it several times in Parliament. In contrast to the Member's claims that are not realistic, the government considers the improvement of the quality of life of the population living in the domestic countryside in a prominent and, above all, complex way, to improve the capacity of the countryside to maintain its population. The government's work in this direction has been and will be the result of the coming years. And that the day of national solidarity, the day of the signing of the outrageous Trianon peace treaty, in Jobbik's speech of untruths and deliberate distortions for internal political battle [[A grumbling in Jobbik's ranks.]] He uses it for his own political interests, and I find it very regrettable and sad. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: After today, it is rude to say such a thing! It's a shame, Mr. Secretary.]] I hope that Congressman has received reassuring answers to his question. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-06-04-212	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Representative of Jobbik, Ms Andrea Varga-Damm, asked for a post-meeting speech. The government's tasks are to highlight the dangers involved in transport. It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is true that on the day of national solidarity, on the anniversary of the scandalous decision in Trianon, this should be the first thing to be said about, but since there are very few sitting days, we must bring to this House all the problems that our society in general is facing. We all know that transport is a dangerous plant. We also know that increased car traffic and narrow cross-sections are inverse, and we can also see, and increasingly worrying statistics reveal that in Hungary there are 800 thousand alcoholics and at least 700 thousand regular drug users. [[17.40]] This means that the number of drivers in the number million population is hundreds of thousands of people who take part in transport every day. Our society is interested in Parliament's decision-makers, government members and all those professionals who have an obligation to keep the threats in society to a minimum, taking effective action in these matters as well. It's not enough that if the policeman catches the drunk driver, there's a procedure, if there's an accident and there's a drunk or a drug addict, then he's being punished, as we can see, that's not enough prevention. We also perceive that due to traffic dynamism, technological development, the much higher performance potential of motor vehicles clearly leads to some of the leading society's deviant behaviours that we see in transport every day. When drug people's reactions and psychological conditions are examined, these findings are: nervousness, internal restlessness, impaired concentration, spatial disorientation, impatientness, and all the deviant consequences that people see in the personality of drug people. It is already present in Hungary, and the authorities have the opportunity to use drug tests in everyday life that would be suitable to filter out the leaders involved in drug use. If any of us want to enter the United States at an airport in the United States, you can experience the simple means to test the drug on those who wish to enter. These tools are also available to the Authority in Hungary. I have read all the conferences, discourses and ideas online; for eight years, you have at your disposal all the tools available to the authority that would allow drivers to be tested at random for drug testing. This - we can ask the question - why are they not employed? I have a feeling because there would be a lot of celebrities and politicians involved, and it would be very bad for society to meet these in the press every day, but let's take this problem seriously. It is our proposal, and I ask the government to take a general drug test on leaders, and we also ask that the drunk driver, when he is convicted three times, lose his license forever, and if any of the leaders have a positive drug test, do not get his license back until the doctors prove he's cured and prove he's quitting everything. In Hungary, citizens want to be safe in every situation, every life situation in their lives, and many do not like very much now that people who live in such a harmful passion, are involved in such a narrow section, such an extremely loaded, serious dangerous plant, they are virtually constantly present as bombs in everyday life of society, every hour. I would like to ask the representatives of the Hungarian Government, the Minister of the Interior, to draw up a technical detail of this, using this tool system. I would also ask the legislators to include in the legislation the proposal on drunk driving and drug-using drivers. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-214	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State is responding. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-215	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The questions you raise, I believe, are in our daily lives, and we are getting reports of countless facts that really support what you have said. No one will, of course, dispute this, and I believe that we can also say that we really need to launch a much more effective and consistent set of measures in this regard in the next period. But I think there is another problem with transport, and this is the very, very ageing of the domestic fleet, if I may put it that way. The technical conditions we are experiencing today, whether in the capital or on the national road network, which we see in the domestic bus park, are 17.5 years, which is also scary to say. With cars or buses of this age that may be more than a million kilometres away, we travel with them, and they travel the routes of the capital, cities, villages, the countryside, and long - distance flights. These problems draw our attention to the need to ensure that the maintenance of these vehicles, the proper technical condition, is ensured in a way that ensures the safety of road transport. Of course, this is linked to safe transport, the psychic, mental and physical preparedness of the right drivers, and not least to environmental aspects. It is therefore very important that the technical examination must be carried out according to a standard for which the portfolio responsible for transport has already taken action in previous years: it has also initiated the imposition of a fine in the event of a breach of the test and technological order. A number of accidents draw our attention, unfortunately the accident in Verona, which, for example, upset and shocked the inhabitants of Hungary, also shows how important it is for bus drivers and drivers to get to the wheel of vehicles in a physical and stressful state and with other problems. This is why it is important that there has been a serious measure in this regard in the past period when the service performance of drivers, bus drivers, has been limited, so that their driving time can be spent on driving. We therefore consider it important that we not only consider these issues, which Mrs President has raised - all current issues - but we also know that, unfortunately, there will be steps and measures that we will be able to answer your question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-04-216	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech on the representation of the citizens of Buda. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-06-04-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, When Fidesz decided to reduce the number of Parliaments and especially to include individual MEPs in the representation of voters, it did so to represent local interests in this House. My opposition colleagues, if you look around here, you can see how serious this work is now being taken seriously by the Fidesz MEPs. The fact is that these people, who have mostly won individual mandates, do not represent the local interest within Fidesen, but represent the interests of Fidesz in the place where they were assigned. This is no different, and one of the best examples of this is Mihály Varga, who is currently Minister of Economy and Finance, and for the second time won the representation of Buda citizenship in the election. The fact is that for the first time since the election of Mihály Varga, when I speak, someone brought the subject of Buda citizenship into the National Assembly, he did not think that this was important, he did not think that he should speak in Parliament at any level about his own single mandate. Mihály Varga would have had a lot of work to do in the past period, so we can think here that the problem of the cradle seats is one of the worst in Budapest, the II. district and III. in certain parts of the district. Despite the fact that the government talks a lot about how important the demographic issue is and how important it is to be family friends, Mihály Varga never once spoke on this issue. In addition, the state of the roads in Budapest is one of the worst, the II. The district is particularly bad, but Mihály Varga did not speak in this case either. Mihály Varga holds that the Klebelsberg Culture has been renovated out of more than one billion forints, and this culture has also been managed to be handed over by the second. district residents can't use a district card or any other way, but this is owned by private companies designated by Mihály Varga, and they use a state renovation. [[17.50]] The fact is that Mihály Varga is called in the district in such a way that the man who was not there, the man who plays the game with the mayor in the media product called the Buda Polgár, which cannot be called the newspaper, is still known for being in the majority of pictures cut down, but everyone knows exactly the second. in the district, that he didn't do any meaningful work. At the same time, we seriously believe that citizens in all areas of Hungary deserve to be represented, so I continue to undertake that while I have a mandate here, the citizens of Buda should be represented. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-218	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State is responding. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-219	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to make a personal remark. You can see that, although everyone started out like this as a junior congressman, so you don't know yet... [[Márta Demeter: Secretary of State!]] He's a beginner congressman, and what everyone knows and knows in his own past is how his work began. So I think, when you put such critical questions and such criticism, then when you become a Member in four or eight years' time, you should still think about those words. I think you'll appreciate it differently, you'll express your critical opinion differently than you just did, but I'll answer your question. [[Péter Ungár: Thank you.]] Mihály Varga obtained his mandate in 2014 and 2018 in the 4th constituency of Budapest, which is the capital of Budapest II. and III. covers part of its perimeter. The Hungarian government has always considered the promotion and representation of local affairs to be a priority, so they have developed development and investment in settlements in cooperation with local governments, ecclesiastical organizations and local communities. In recent years, in the two districts affecting the constituency, more than 50 developments have started or have been completed, which have been waiting for decades and affect almost all areas, since there is a source for them. There have been numerous sources of renovation and expansion of health institutions, similar to the reconstruction of educational institutions, but there are also significant expansions of green spaces, and several emblematic buildings and locations have been renewed or renewed, and you have already given some thought to this. Common holidays, commemorations are the bond of communities. The capital is II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The people living in its district are proud of their traditions, and it is important for them to respect their predecessors. On several occasions, Mr Mihály Varga has been invited to these events, who has participated in Community events 465 times since 8 April 2014 at Community events. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. in the district. 71 times between April and December 2014, 98 times between January and December 2015, 105 times between January and December 2016, 127 times between January and December 2017, 69 times between January and June 2018. Mihály Varga also attended, for example, the commemoration at the Starhegy country flag on the day of national integration. I think, Mr Congressman, I understand you didn't take part in these events, which is why these critical wordings against a practicing Member of Parliament, I am sorry to put it this way, it was a little steep. But I'm going to tell you a few more facts, so that you don't miss it; as long as I have time, I'm going to give you a list. School and kindergarten development, House of children Alternative Foundation Program, expansion of the high school for the move of new buildings, St. Angéla High School 2 billion, the development of the Gyökössy Endre Kindergarten 630 million, the development of the Szabó Lőrinc School, the Szemlőhegy Utcai Kindergarten, the Town Hall Utcai Kindergarten, the State Institute for Disabled People - here I don't say the millions - in order to protect priority projects, green investments and built environments, the Millenáris Széllkapu investment, the complete renovation of the Klebelsberg Castle, the reconstruction of Gül Baba's turbény and its surroundings, health improvements, the II. The process in the new building of the District Health Service, in Szent János Hospital, is also affected by the development of several buildings of the National Institute of Rheumatology and Physiotherapy, in which he also played an active role, including the development of the Buda Irregular Hospital. In relation to St. Ferenc Hospital, he worked similarly, sports development, Császár-Komjádi swimming pool, cold-kút swimming pool, the tram network in transport development, the development of Széll Kálmán tér, the development of the II. district could spend HUF 250 million on the development of a bicycle road network, III. district developments, the new trail of Highway 10, the restoration of the Kandó College of the University of Óbuda, the construction of limestone park in the area of investments affecting our environment, III. district park development, health investments at St. Margaret's Hospital, and I could tell you more. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2018-06-04-220	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, applied for the day of defence and day of heroes. It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 May we celebrated the day of Hungarian defence, while on the last Sunday of May we held our heads at the Memorial of Hungarian heroes. Here, in the walls of the Parliament, every year I try to take this opportunity to remember the heroes, to thank the Hungarian Army and to talk about the national case of defence and the situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Hungarian history is a long series of struggles. This struggle was in many cases for the mere survival of the Hungarian state, while during the revolutions of 1848 and 1956, the fight for Hungary's independence was linked to the fight for individual freedoms, democracy and social progress. Despite the storm of the last thousand years, Hungary exists as an independent country, an equal member of the community of European nations, thanks to the great figures, soldiers and anonymous heroes of these struggles recorded in the history books. We must see that security is not self-evident, but we must do so every day. We also need to be clear that, despite the frequent criticisms, NATO and the European Union are today the stability and security in our increasingly serious world. In the tasks undertaken in this framework, the Hungarian Defence Forces are excellent, for which we thank them. On the occasion of the Day of Defence and the Day of Heroes, we welcome the Hungarian Army's staff, our soldiers and the military workers. The thanks are not only due to these two days, but also to their dedicated service and sacrifice each day, because unfortunately we have to say that the Hungarian Defence Forces are still operational today because our soldiers serve such a dedicated service. The army's population is an outstanding human and professional achievement worldwide, and not only in words, but also in action. This is one of the top priorities of the current government. Therefore, we expect the newly formed government, the political leaders of the defence to provide both military and defence workers with competitive salaries, to reduce the size of the unsustainable over-service, to improve working conditions, to modernise equipment, and to renovate barracks by filling the number of almost 8,000 today. Develop a new type of early retirement pension scheme with the involvement of stakeholders, which encourages further service, yet provides security and predictability to the stock. Increase the defence budget substantially to reach 2% of GDP by 2022. It doesn't matter how the higher budgetary resources are used, because all the taxpayers' forints intended to protect their country should be safe there. Therefore, procurement should be carried out in a transparent manner and should be carried out while providing meaningful and regular information to the committees. We need to stop the loss of skills over the last few years, the military capabilities of the defence need to be improved substantially, the acquisition of military equipment is inconvenient, and a real long-term plan must be drawn up for this. [[18.00]] We also expect the democratic direction and control of the armed forces to be achieved, both by maintaining the civil administration of the Ministry of Defence and by ensuring the powers of the Parliament and the committees to control it. By all means, the Hungarian Defence Office must be subject to direct party political orders. For Hungary, therefore, a modern, flexible XXI. It needs a force capable of meeting the challenges of the century, as NATO is as strong as its Member States are. On the occasion of the Day of Defence on 21 May and the Day of Heroes celebrated on the last Sunday of May, we welcome the Hungarian Army, thank you for your everyday efforts and wish you strength and health for your further service.
u2018-06-04-222	Mr. Secretary of State is next on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-223	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I thank you for your constructive attitude towards the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which you noted and said at the end of your speech, which largely coincides with the position of the Hungarian Government. The history of the 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence is one of the most important events in Hungarian history. This year and a half, the country has taken steps from the feudal system to civil society. All of this took place within the framework of a major European revolutionary process, and Hungarian and international events have been interacting with each other all along. The German and Italian unit movement, the attempt to create a united Poland, the federal transformation of the Habsburg Empire, all affected the events in Hungary, and the Hungarian revolution and the struggle for independence affected their chances. The formation of the modern Hungarian army can be completed by the end of May 1848 when the battalion of ten regular pawns was installed at the order of Prime Minister Lajos Batthyány, which was already referred to as the military in official documents. Due to the threat of foreign aggression against the Hungarian state and the threat of internal ethnic armed movements Lajos Kossuth, on 11 July 1848, the representatives of the National Assembly voted for 200 thousand newcomers and 42 million forints of military credit with immediate effect, officially creating the nation's regular power and defence, the Hungarian Defence Office celebrating its 170th birthday with a large series of events. One of the most liberal law of the era was born in Hungary, the country quickly created an army of European standards, and, at the end of July 1849, the Hungarian Parliament passed a law on emancipation of nationalities and the Jewish population. We all know the events of the 1848-49 War of Independence, the looting of the Habsburgs and the war of freedom. With regard to the organization, organisation and operational principles of the army of 48, it was at the level of age. This was the year, the year of wonders, written by the poet Mihály Tompa about this series of events, the revolution and the fight for freedom. It is a strange toy of fate that only a few days before the day of national union recalling the mournful Trianon dictatorship, on the last Sunday of May, we remember our military heroes, many hundreds of thousands of whom gave their lives so that the Hungarian nation would never be so disgraced. The idea of the Memorial Day of Hungarian Heroes dates back to the great war, in 1915 Baron Ferenc Ebele, Chief of Staff, proposed in a letter from the front that the Parliament adopt a law establishing a beautiful stone monument in every parish of the state, to which his fallen heroes are engraved by name, and that at the end of 1916 was before the coronation of IV. King Charles and Count István Tisza have been referred to as accepted. From now on, we always remember our heroes, remembering the great people who gave their blood and lives to protect their homeland; and, of course, this also applies to the heroic dead and military sacrifices of World War II. The first state-level event took place in 1990. In 2001, heroes' day was brought back to state holidays. Mr President, Dear House, On this day, we remember the soldiers who fought and gave their lives in all the wars of Hungarian military history and the victims, parents, brothers, wives and children who were forced to suffer their absence. With the mandatory generosity of offspring, we do not distinguish between warriors and simple victims. For us rememberers, life lost in all wars is a heroic sacrifice on the altar of the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-04-224	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP, spoke after the agenda, with the title "4 June." Here you go.
u2018-06-04-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, on giving the answer on virtually all policy issues. Although I do not understand that there are 54 State Secretarys in the service of the government, what was the need for this record-size number when a State Secretary is in line with the opposition on virtually all matters. There has been a lot of talk about today's day of national solidarity, the recollection of the outrageous Trianon peace dictatorship, and the serious consequences of this peace dictatorship to this day. This is a national tragedy that we have not yet been able to deal with, for Hungarians it is still a unprocessed national tragedy. And the fact that we have not been able to deal with this national tragedy is largely or partly due to the fact that, to date, we have failed to ensure self-determination to the appropriate extent for Hungarian communities living outside the border. And we can also see that, even in the recent period, there are still serious violations of rights, restrictions on the rights of Hungarian communities living across the border. LMP has been committed to strengthening dialogue between the mother country and Hungarian communities across borders, and we have been committed and committed to doing our part in the fact that, when the Hungarians across the border were deprived of their rights, we drew attention to this with all our means, and we have been involved in reducing these effects. At the same time, we also consider it very important that this is a common national issue, and this issue cannot be subject to party political battles and party political interests. It is therefore shocking to us that both the government and some opposition parties, even in the last election campaign, have actually turned this issue into a power technology tool. And it was also shocking to me, listening to the debates of today's parliamentary session, that we could see that several pro-government state ministers, in fact, have reduced this memorial day to a shameful party political rivalry. That's pretty amazing. We know that in Transylvania, in the Highlands and in the recent period there are very serious violations of rights, restrictions of rights, and that we can take a real stand against them if we succeed in creating a unity on this issue between the parties, public figures and politicians in the motherland, and, on the other hand, we succeed in creating behind these issues a strong alliance, where appropriate, a European unity, that can create the kind of political pressure that we are really not only talking about these issues, but we can have an impact on them in a positive sense. This year is also a centenary year, this year the Gyulafehérvár declaration will be 100 years old in December. Unfortunately, the fears that this year, in Romanian internal politics, a grotesque bid has been launched on which politicians are as extreme as possible, as nationalistic as possible, if you would like to make a Hungarian-hating speech. We have also had an amazing example, and the President-in-Office of an EU country has basically threatened the Szeklers because they wanted to use their national symbols. Since then, this Romanian Prime Minister has failed. A few days ago, we received the sad news that the Romanian Senate also voted off the draft law on autonomy in Szeklerland, in fact without a substantive debate. We believe that this was also an outrageous decision, given that this draft law was linked to a very important European value, the self-determination of national minorities. We find it unacceptable that this was voted out in this way in a European Union country without a substantive debate. This also underlines the need for all of us to cooperate on these issues, and these matters, the issue of national policy, must indeed be seen as a common national issue. It was just today that the government's Fidesz State Secretarys demonstrated that they did not consider this a national matter for a minute, and that they were able to make party political speeches that violated the opposition on this day. [[18.10]] I think it's definitely an act that Fidesz State Secretarys should be ashamed of. On this day, we must also remember, and I was very pleased to hear from Mr Ander Balázs about the fact that our nation is indeed facing very serious challenges and serious blows, and this is most likely to be traced in the shocking emigration that has already resulted in the loss of a generation. Hundreds of thousands of people migrated from Hungary under duress, thousands of young people migrate every month, and more and more Hungarian children are born abroad. I think that stopping this process is one of the most important tasks of both a Parliament and a government, and in historical perspectives, the performance of both the government and the Parliament will be judged by the Hungarian nation on the basis of its credibility and success in dealing with these issues and the results it has achieved in this respect. Thank you.
u2018-06-04-226	Thank you very much. Mr. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, on behalf of the government.
u2018-06-04-227	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out, first of all, that every pro-government politician considers June 4 as great a day as, I think, all citizens of Hungary. So what you're saying here is more about political battle than what you mean in your inner reality is that it's the 4th of June as a national union day. On the day of the signing of the Trianon peace dictatorship, the President of the Hungarian National Assembly, István Rakovszky, who had the responsible role of speaking before the House on 4 June 1920, on this tragic day, said the following. ▪ Every injustice has its profound retribution that it springs from a abundant source of good. When Fidesz-KDNP presented a law on witnessing for national integration in 2010, we received a number of criticisms that we wanted to sit on the mourning anniversary of Trianon. Far be it from us, as Gyula Juhász writes,, you can't forget, no, never, / As long as you become Hungarian and memory, the events that led to the collapse of historical Hungary and the fragmentation of our nation. At the same time, the time has come for this anniversary to be replaced by hope. Now, 98 years later, we can see the prophecy of István Rakovszky, by joining forces we have overcome the boundaries that divide our nation, we have managed to make good of this immense injustice, and we have managed to overcome Trianon's tragedy by not having any power on us. Together, we have managed to turn hopelessness into hope. This abundant good, the faith and perseverance of foreign Hungarians is today the most important resource in the struggle for our nation. Anyone who feels disheartened in the task for the community, I suggest that you visit the Csángós in Gyimes, the Hungarians living in the Transcarpathian sporadic or the Hungarian community in Buenos Aires, and there you can take an example of what it means to fight for our nation. Since 2010, we have saluted them on the day of national cohesion. Before all those who, as the law on witnessing for national cohesion states, made it possible, with their sacrifice and performance, that, after this tragedy, Hungarians were able to regenerate in both spiritual and economic terms and to survive the subsequent historical tragedies; because of which we can look to the future today, not hopelessly but confidently. For Daca, the Trianon tragedy, the Hungarian nation, is planning its future together today. Together with the cooperation of the Hungarian government, Hungarian governments and Hungarian NGOs, churches and political organisations from abroad, we will build the future, the Hungarians from abroad are now full members of it. With preferential localization, support for the maintenance and continuous operation of Hungarian institutions and organizations outside Hungary, we have made the responsibility for foreign Hungarians a system level and natural. We strive to ensure that any support that can be extended to foreign Hungarians can be provided to them, so that Hungarian citizenship, maternity support, native language education, competitive skills, conditions for child rearing. So we have more work to do in this area, and today is also about not only a mere commemoration, but also a tribute to the heroes of the past. On the day of national integration, we must take stock of our resources and believe that we Hungarians want to continue our journey across borders and beyond together, because we can continue to create the abundant good with which we can retaliate against Trianon's injustice. Thank you for your attention, Mr President.
u2018-06-04-228	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zsolt Gréczy, representative of the Democratic Coalition, applied for a post-municipal speech:, Will it be the custom of the Orbán system to ban theatre performances? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Zsolnay Theatre in Pécs banned the earlier announcement of Yes, Prime Minister! and directed by Robert Alföldi. Balázs Vincze, director of the playground, called the former Director General of the National Theatre a political activist. The Minister who oversees culture... and my fellow Members obviously know that making a resolution in public life is part of being an intellectual. This opinion is fitting, and it is even mandatory to accept it in the world's cultivated regions if those in power do not like the resolution, as well as harsh criticism. Shakespeare, Bulgakov, Petőfi, Ady, Móricz, Mikszáth or Picasso have all been politicalized and expressed a character's opinion on daily public affairs. If they lived today, would they also be banned from Hungarian cultural institutions? According to the Democratic Coalition, it is outrageous and we reject the fact that a theatre performance will be banned in Hungary in 2018. The country, the working, creative people living in culture, must know whether this will be a system from now on, and whether this process will be part of the Orbán system, and whether it can be affected by other artists, performances and productions. Many artists complain that they cannot be invited to festivals or municipal events on the basis of so-called death lists among Fidesz city leaders, because their world view does not harmonize with the current Fidesz direction. What does the government, the minister, or even the secretary of state want to do to ensure that there is no ban, censorship, isolation of a different voice, or fear in the dictatorship of Orbán? Culture needs freedom. The Democratic Coalition demands guarantees that cultural actors do not have to fear retortion if they do not want to comply with Fidesz. I look forward to the honourable response of the Secretary of State for Agriculture, who is also responsible for the theatre censorship. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2018-06-04-230	Secretary of State, on behalf of the government, please.
u2018-06-04-231	Thank you very much. Let's just say he's a secretary of state and he's not exactly competent. I would like to clarify that, and thank you for the remark. Apart from that, as a man who goes to the theatre, I accept that. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, artistic life is free, and this applies to both creative and performing art activities. The government has always been in favour of creating timeless values, and the leaders of cultural institutions have sufficient freedom to do so. Freedom goes hand in hand with responsibility. Culture professionals must ensure that real values are created. The standard in this is their own artistic conviction. The government places the performing arts sector as a key government priority, with infrastructure development and increased subsidies, to contribute to the better functioning of the performing arts organisations. XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. Law, in short, Emtv. its aim and task is to help performers and art organizations operate and to contribute to ensuring the modern legislative environment of the sector active in the creation and mediation of the values of Hungarian culture. The Emtv. also provides for derogations from the rules of general employment, for the selection of directors of performing art organisations, for the specific rules to be applied in the performance of the job, and for the conditions for the certification of performing art organisations. [[18.20]] At the level of the Government Decree, the legislation provides for the tendering and tendering procedure of the directors of the performing arts organisations, the requirements for the performance of the leading position. In 2018, a total of HUF 1230 million was added to the budget to support organisations with a high and national rating, of which HUF 1120 million was allocated to musical organizations, HUF 110 million to national and high-ranking theatre organizations. Budget support for the theatre organizations maintained or supported by local authorities increased by HUF 110 million from 2017 to 2018. This was 9 billion 628 million in 2017 and 9 billion 738 million forints in 2018. The EMMI awarded a total grant of HUF 1264 million for its tender for theatre, dance and music organizations, which supports the operation of non-qualified theatres, dance ensembles, orchestras and choirs, as well as open-air, ethnic and host theatres in 2018. Out of the envelope, the theater organizations received HUF 387 million, the dance ensembles HUF 176 million, the musical art organizations 154 million, the distributors 214 million, the open-air theaters, and the ethnic theatres received HUF 90 million. A total of 173 applications were submitted by theatres, dance and music groups; 127 organisations received funding from 144 valid applications. The number of theater visitors - I think this is a welcome number, and this tells us everything - has increased from 4.5 million in 2010 to 6.7 million in the last season, which is a 1.5-fold increase. More than 40 billion forints of government support could have renewed Kaposvár, Debrecen, Veszprém, Győr and Szolnok theatre. In addition, the National Theatre and the Thália Theatre are modernized from almost 3 billion forints in total. The programmed renewal of rural theatre buildings has not been the case since the early 1990s. In addition to the regulations set out in Emtv., the Hungarian Government does not consider it its task to exercise the rights arising from maintenance obligations over the theatres, except for two state-owned theatre organizations. The Emtv. The responsibility and responsibility of the managers of the performing arts organisations appointed by the maintenance or owners in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the legal and effective operation of the organisation managed by them and the best possible performance of its professional tasks. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-04-232	Well, thank you so much for that. [[Defiance.]] Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech. What does the World Day of Biological Diversity say? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 22 May was the World Day of Biodiversity, and since 2015 it has been the day of Hungarian nature at the initiative of civilians. This World Day reminds us that in 1992 the Convention on Biological Diversity was established, which aims to significantly reduce the rate of biodiversity reduction worldwide. Although the European Union has committed itself by 2010 to halt the loss of biodiversity in Europe, unfortunately nothing has been achieved for these purposes. The decrease did not stop or decrease. The situation is serious. More than 40 percent of Europe's mammal species, bird species, butterfly species and more than half of freshwater fish are threatened with extinction. And it is also shocking that common species such as bees pollinating plants have been reduced in some parts of the world to such an extent that they are now trying to replace pollinators' activities by hand or by experimenting with drones, we are pretty much aware that they are hopeless. In Hungary, the most significant loss of biodiversity was caused by the destruction of the natural plant cover. 90 percent of ecosystem services are already alive, and the natural plant cover is limited to 2 percent of the country's territory. The cause of the decline is man's expansion on the planet. Mankind is occupying an increasing area of nature for agricultural, industrial, transport, tourism and settlement purposes. Overgrowth is also reflected in the growing use of resources. At the same time, while living up to the natural plant cover, the situation is aggravated by mankind's exposure to chemicals that are directly toxic, such as pesticides, or indirectly lead to damage to wildlife, such as most waste. This is what is happening in Hungary. We should finally understand that the preservation of biodiversity is not a guarantee of some kind of generosity, but of the survival of human life. If the living things on Earth are in danger, we're in danger, too. The importance of biodiversity cannot be sufficiently emphasised. International research estimates the global value of the ecosystem to be nearly half of the world's annual economic production. But we also need to be aware that if there were no ecosystem service, we would be doomed to death in a short time, because we would run out of air, our waters would be poisoned, the condition of life would cease. The stabilization of climate, the preservation of air composition, the good quality of water, the reproduction of resources, but even our unique life depends on biodiversity. Nevertheless, in our daily lives, this issue is completely ignored, and we must also admit that there is not enough political will to protect biodiversity, and that short-term economic interests are always more important. We also need to know that the protection of biodiversity is only possible within the whole system of society and the economy and cannot be attributed to a separate nature conservation policy. In addition, this limited institutional system has been properly cut at home: our national parks and natural values have become a servant of the economic activity called ecotourism. The protection of nature and the environment is now entrusted to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, in other words, the goat's cabbage. Although agriculture is indeed in a broad context with regard to the mechanism of biodiversity, it is doubtful that the sector which essentially serves economic performance expectations should be able to limit itself in order to protect biodiversity. We therefore expect the government to start dealing with biodiversity conservation according to its weight; it integrates the aspects of the conservation of biodiversity into the various sectoral policies and establishes its institutional system. There is also a need for a significant change of perspective. The protection of biodiversity is important not only because it is beautiful in nature, it can be healed, it can be renewed, but it is also a very serious economic issue, and not least the basis of our lives. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-04-234	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, on behalf of the government, please.
u2018-06-04-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First, I would like to respond to your last sentences of trusting a goat with cabbage in the Agricultural Ministry. You want me to take that on? [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Easy.]] You think so? I am very happy to take it upon myself, and you must only acknowledge it, and in this, I believe, if you consider what you have said, then, if you think about it, this is not entirely so, because the world population growth that has started and can only be treated and fed with a sufficient amount of food on a continuous basis. I am very pleased that with environmental management in Hungary today - and hopefully even in the coming times - we can achieve a doubling of the amount of food we produce today in Hungary. I think that's true. This contributes to the activity of the national economy, and I also believe that it can meet all the conditions in terms of environmental protection. It's not an easy task. You don't believe it; I believe it as a farmer, and I believe it. I believe that there will always be a conflict between us, but I believe that if we think about this logically, and indeed, the pesticides and other substances that you have mentioned are, to a significant extent, already restricting economic processes to a degree that is a serious disadvantage for production, but there will also be appropriate answers. [[18.30]] In the countries of the world, on 22 May, we are celebrating the International Day of Biodiversity, or World Day for the Protection of Biodiversity. The primary objective of the world's day is to raise public awareness of the diversity of wildlife, which we call biodiversity and the dangers that threaten it. World Day is celebrated on 22 May because on this day in 1992 the final text of the Convention on Biological Diversity was adopted at the UN Environment Programme Conference in Nairobi. Every year Hungary remembers the World Biodiversity Day in information and awareness-raising programmes. In view of the fact that the Convention on Biological Diversity celebrates the 25th anniversary of its entry into force this year, as V4 President-in-Office, we proposed the inclusion of the subject at the high-level phase of the V4 + conference. In this context, we will jointly remember the progress made in the last quarter of a century and the tasks ahead of us. In 2015, the Parliament adopted a national biodiversity strategy for the period 2015-20 without voting against. The 2020 strategy for the conservation of domestic biodiversity focuses on six main areas, focusing on objectives, measurable targets and measures to help achieve them, addressing, inter alia, the conservation of natural areas, the improvement of their conservation status, the maintenance and restoration of landscape diversity, ecosystem services, the main sectors that have an impact on biodiversity, including agriculture, guaranteed GMO-free agriculture. The tasks ahead of us are just a few thoughts. Among the problems that threaten biodiversity, priority should be given to the emergence of invasive alien species, the drastic reduction in the number of pollinators, the risk of rare and protected habitats and species. These problems include, for example, over-intensive cultivation or cessation of cultivation, excessive use of pesticides, inadequate use of fertilisers. In many cases, these risks are mainly due to the lack of sufficient information from the parties concerned. The solution is significantly facilitated by widespread awareness, mapping and evaluation of ecosystem services, information, awareness-raising and experience transfer. Thank you, Congresswoman, for your question. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-236	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-237	Mr President, Dear House, How much longer? My follow-up series on the agenda, which typically brings to Parliament new classified cases of the Calvary of those who have been damaged by foreign currency loans, people whose problems this government has found no solution to, or even showed no intention of solving, their problems. At the same time, I find it very strange that on the national day of mourning, on the anniversary of Trianon, which Fidesz-KDNP is trying to make a kind of joy out of, it is trying to celebrate national belongings, these Hungarian fates emerge. And indeed, the fate of the Hungarians in the torn parts does not have to be described for long, the bitter bread there is known to everyone, but it is quite certain that within the remaining country, a Trianon was realized for a very wide number of social groups. Because, despite the lies of Fidesz-KDNP, which we have heard here today, that they have tried to favour certain social groups with final repayments, they have provided temporary air for a very small part of these people, and they have brought up the private institution of bankruptcy - Mr Secretary, I suggest that you include in your answer how many people the private institution of bankruptcy has been able to help in Hungary; I would like to say that the number of people around a thousand or a little below that which, by showing some signs of debt slavery, places these victims under very strict pressure, may provide temporary survival from the point of view of implementation. At the same time, it does not provide a long-term solution for virtually anyone and hundreds of thousands of layers, certainly not the entire institutional system. And what we can see is that, while there is a great deal of trouble in the torn parts, and the everyday life of Hungarians is easier in some respects, but at the level of numbers, it is certainly not as promising as you would like to see, in Csonka-Hungary, these problems occur in such a way that among the hundreds of thousands emigrated, the victims of bank victims, credit victims, public utility companies who are either at the end of the eviction, or would have been left here if they hadn't left earlier. Your colleagues here today, Mr Secretary of State, have mentioned on a number of occasions how much the Hungarian population situation has improved and improved from your point of view, while I am about the same age as the Hungarian population loss. And I would like to inform you that if we here, every party in the Hungarian Parliament, all its representatives, act perfectly by implementing a common minimum programme, so that we will deal with the demographic disaster without error, 30 years in the lower voice is still the solution to this problem. You're coming here with the fertility rate, which is a joke. I am very pleased that, if this ratio is increasing, I am very pleased that if it was 1.2 below the bottom and now it is 1.54, you are the only ones who lied that the base, the base that indicates the number of women involved, is constantly shrinking in Hungary, so that the newborns who could contribute to reproduction should be removed from an ever smaller circle. But they're not getting out. And again, the figures show that the rate of population loss compared to the previous year, Mr Secretary of State, has accelerated, and that Hungarian citizens born in foreign or ripped parts of Hungary are also included in your statistics as Hungarian citizens born here. They were born in a large number of countries, because even you may see - it is not a great deal of trouble - that most emigrating Hungarians, although they take up their jobs there, get paid there, do not necessarily burn up all the bridges behind them, in Hungary, they do not necessarily announce to all the offices that they have moved out and they may not even come back, they may even maintain their social security status, they may have a registered place of residence, and they may gain income abroad as a commuter, but they may move there and take on their children there. And when one of your pro-government partners declares that as many people come home from abroad as they do from abroad, the one-time Hungarian Internet or commentator cries out for the cessation of the mind-alterers. I am not speaking so harshly, I am only encouraging you to be restrained in order not to make so much claims against Hungarian madness. Here I will make a promise: I will keep what we have held with Jobbik's faction: we will support all their ideas and actions towards Hungarian survival, and I will support them myself. [[György Balla: The amendment of the Constitution! Sándor Farkas: Just keep it.]] If, say, they want to reduce the VAT on child-rearing articles that we've been fighting for for eight years, I'll be the first to say yes so much that the button will rip out of its place. But if the Calvary of those with credit damage is not settled, if full Hungarian social groups [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They betray you, so don't expect a population turn, it won't come on its own. [[The president's ringing again.]] , only at national minima...
u2018-06-04-238	Congressman, please.
u2018-06-04-239	.......................................................................................................................................... And very, very responsible work. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-04-240	Secretary Farkas responds on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2018-06-04-241	Honourable Congressman, Your question is, how much longer? Of course, you have raised social and sociological issues that go far beyond what has been said on this issue. However, I will try to respond to the thoughts expressed on the matter and to respond to some other thoughts. The basic purpose of judicial enforcement is to recover claims of creditors not paid by the debtor. However, it is important to point out that creditors' claims are not only made up of the claims of financial institutions, but also the result of the non-payment of other private claims may be the auction of the debtor's property, the possible eviction of the debtor's property, such as the default of child support claims. Thus, debtors could not have been in a position to leave their homes solely because of their bank debts. With regard to the laws governing the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers, it is necessary to highlight the amendment of the credit institution law, the Consumer Credit Act, which resulted in the mandatory application of the central rate, the level of early repayment fees being maximized, and in some cases the extension of the term could have been done without any fees or charges being charged. [[18.40]] Furthermore, the Parliament settled the issues relating to consumer credit through the creation of foreign exchange laws and laid down the rules for the settlement required under invalid contractual provisions and ensured that the persons concerned could not be evicted from their residential property during this settlement. You helped me with my answer, we could talk about the rules of forinting here, we could talk about the history of the National Tool Manager. You asked me a quick question about private security. According to my data, according to the 4th of June data, 1251 procedures were initiated on the basis of the debt settlement register, in which a total of 3256 persons were involved. On the basis of the number of cases so far, we have set the goal of making debtors and creditors more interested in private bankruptcy proceedings. On 31 October 2017, the Parliament adopted the LIII of 1994 on the judicial enforcement submitted by Members Péter Harrach, István Hollik and László Szászfalvi. T/18004. Bill No. 1. The amendment may defer the discharge of residential immovable property which may be carried out during the enforcement procedure from 1 December to 1 March for a period from 15 November to 30 April if the debtor is a private individual. Dear fellow Member, What you said about the fertility rate, I'd be more careful to put it in your place, just because there's a lot of specific information, and if you've been to the campaign, but beyond that, because you've certainly been to the streets and the squares, I think, and I can probably say, with reference to my age, that there are so many strollers, so many small children... [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: This is not a professional argument! You're kidding.]] It's the same professional argument you gave me, but now I have it... [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]]
u2018-06-04-242	Relax. Relax.
u2018-06-04-243	I've given you the numbers, Your Honour. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many strollers do you see, Mr. Secretary of State?! Something serious here in Parliament!]]
u2018-06-04-244	Congressman! Thank you, you've already told us, this is the Secretary of State speaking - not for long.
u2018-06-04-245	Good, then I am also convinced that more and more Hungarians working abroad will come back to Hungary and have already returned. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I welcome your conviction! The facts are...]] Keep an eye on this. So I'm glad you listened. I wish you good work. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-04-246	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, They will now take the oath of their representatives and sign the oath. I ask you to read the words of the oath. I ask Mr. Ákos Hadházy to take his oath at his seat and the Parliament to stand and listen to the oath. Mr. Messenger! [[The people in this room stand up. The gullible notary Dezső reads the words of the oath.]]
u2018-06-04-247	I, Dr. Ákos Hadházy vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others. I exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation.
u2018-06-04-248	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to prepare the oath papers for signature and Mr Hadházy to sign the oath documents. Here you go. [[It's happening. Dr. Lajos Szűcs, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Ákos Hadházy and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. Ákos Hadházy congratulates first Péter Ungár, then Erzsébet Schmuck and Dr. Tamás Bellozó.]] I wish Mr Hadházy, on behalf of Parliament and myself, an effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament, Thank you for today's work. I would like to inform you that the House Committee's special meeting is now taking place in Room 21 of the main floor. For the majority who do not have to come to the House Committee, I wish you a pleasant evening. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Goodbye.
