u2018-01-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This is the opening of an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament during the winter. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and István Szávay will be notaries of my assistance. I welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. From the group of the MSZP:. Who organizes migration in Hungary? Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, spoke before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2018-01-30-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are sitting here in a large part of an empty Parliamentary Chamber because the Fidesz lords have been deposed to attend a duly convened parliamentary meeting. Or they are afraid: they are afraid to give straight answers to straight questions; they are afraid to make decisions on important matters, and they are afraid to face reality. Today, you can see exactly who the problems of Hungary and the Hungarian people are. Where's the Prime Minister? Why isn't he here? Where are the congressmen? Where are the ministers? Is the helicopter late? [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties. Zoltán Grimlock: The private jet is broken!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have initiated the assembly of Parliament on several important, urgent matters. The first such case is that we need to examine the government's immigration policy immediately, because we can see that the sentence that the former Soros Scholar Prime Minister has said is also valid here in a closed circle:, Don't listen to what I say. Listen to one thing I'm doing. In this sentence everything is included: the contempt of the Hungarian people, the pride, the clumsy attachment to power, the lie and the duplicity. The government's resettlement policy must be examined because it is extremely dangerous for a prime minister to say years ago that millions of immigrants are needed to ensure that the Hungarian economy works and then, in a few years' time, he does not want to see an economic immigrant in the country. It is very dangerous that you want to prove with an instigating campaign that refugees are criminals, while thousands of Russian, Ukrainian and other criminals have received Hungarian citizenship with your cooperation. 1294 people are being harassed because of their asylum application, while about 20,000 economic immigrants were helped to settle in Habony-Rogán's settlement business, while your background people earned hundreds of billions of forints. Let me be clear: over the last three years, Fidesz politicians have lied to our eyes. All this madness is just so you guys can steal more. Plan Soros is a bluff, but the Orbán plan is getting more and more evidence. The main organisers of migration in Hungary today are Viktor Orbán, Péter Szijjártó and Antal Rogán [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] For without consulting the Hungarians, 1300 asylum seekers were secretly accepted. They planted more than 20,000 economic immigrants. They're the ones who let Russian criminals in unchecked, and they're the ones doing business with Pharaons, Naffa, who's got an unclear background. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Not with him...]] Let us be clear: the MSZP is not against the assistance of asylum seekers. We're against lying, bullying and hating. Ladies and gentlemen, The second important issue is the situation of pensioners in Hungary. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás is arriving in the Chamber. Applause from the LMP benches.]] In Hungary, nearly 100,000 pensioners have a monthly pension of less than HUF 50,000. In Hungary, more than half of pensioners receive less than HUF 100,000 pension. This means that today more than 1 million pensioners live in poverty in Hungary. The minimum pension is 28 500 HUF, while in Slovakia 80,000 HUF. What can you do with 28 500 forints today? And I didn't set a Western European example this time. Fidesz took more than 100 thousand forints a year out of the pocket of pensioners only by raising the VAT - and now they're giving a 10,000 forints Erzsébet voucher? Fidesz only regards pensioners as voters, does not take them into account, even though we know that old age is not a disadvantage, and pension is not a donation, but a right acquired by work and contribution. This is why immediate action should be taken to create safe retirement years: double the minimum pension rate, catch up on low pensions and grant a one-off 13th month pension corresponding to the average pension. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz may be able to sabotage today's session, but then we have to say that Hungary does not have a responsible government today. We need a change. The alliance of change was established under the leadership of Gergely Christmas. You can replace the steering wheel. Let's do it together. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2018-01-30-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Fraction Manager replied to his speech before the agenda, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-01-30-3	Dear Chief of Staff, As regards the second question raised by you, [[Zoltán Grimlock: Just the truth!]] Considers it an important task for the government [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 1300! Secretary of State, 1300!]] to help those who have contributed their work to the country's growth for decades. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 1300!]] In 2010, the Cabinet undertook to protect the value of pensions and to fulfil this commitment. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Which one? The 3000 billion?]] It reflects this intention that: [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: What was taken?]] pensions increased again in January this year, now 3 percent, and before that, the elderly received a pension supplement and a pension premium. They are also helped by the 10,000 HUF Erzsébet voucher that they received at Christmas. [[Dr. László Kács: Come... we'll spend it!]] Meanwhile, there was a decrease in the rent; the VAT on basic food was reduced, which you called for earlier, and then you did not support. And the government also allowed women to retire after 40 years of work. The fact is, Mr Group Leader, that in the matter of pensions, man is very reluctant and suspicious to accept any proposal from the MSZP, because it was you who took a month's pension from the elderly. [[Attila Mesterházy: Don't lie! Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Will you give it back?]] Those who voted for it are sitting in the MSZP fraction right now. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Get to the point! 1300!]] Dear Chief of Staff, It is a fact, after all, that during the last left-wing government, the value of pensions decreased by 4 percent. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: To the point!]] After all, you were responsible for the drastic surge in energy prices. [[István Tukacs: You've been steering for eight years!]] And here's the thing, Mr. Group Leader, if you could get another chance, you'd be pursuing the same policy. This is confirmed by the words of Gergely Christmas, who has already announced that he would take the 10,000 HUF Erzsébet voucher. [[Moraj and interrogations from the benches of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: And he would give 120 instead!]] He said, and I quote, it won't work in the future. So Gergely Christmas would start with a withdrawal of 10,000 forints. [[Attila Mesterházy: Your mouth is moving! You're lying! The president's ringing the bell.]] And speaking of Gergely Christmas, Your Honour, there is one more topic here. [[The president's ringing again.]] What I'd like to say is that this is the case that you called this meeting for, and this is immigration. [[13.10]] You've found a candidate for Prime Minister. Now, on the other hand, political cloaking is hardly a bigger artist in Hungary than he is. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: We have one, Viktor Orbán!]] There is almost no left-wing party to which he would not have looked, where he would not have gone, he has been here, he is at your house right now, he is temporarily stationed at the MSZP; I do not know if he had to drink to him this time, but that is not the point, but that Gergely Christmas has strong and clear ideas about the solution to the immigration crisis. His party has published this in a statement earlier, which is written in it. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 1300! Tell me about it.]] - I ask you, Mr Group Leader, to pay attention: The Immigration Office should hire a hundred new employees for faster administration. [[Dr. László Kács: You wanted to wear 700!]] Open out-of-use barracks and accommodate immigrants there; and finally, the resolution suggests that the border fence should not be built in any way, because it is pointless, as he says. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Have you paid for it yet?]] That's what your Prime Minister's candidate said. That's the way it is. You have chosen a candidate who, in addition to being a turncoat, is just like any former socialist: he would open a fence, and immediately. [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Viktor Orbán opened a fence! Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: Kordont!]] So in the MSZP, everything is the same. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Say something! Dr. István Józsa: 1300!]] This is the same party that first denied immigration and then voted for quotas, and then voted for the denied quotas in Brussels, and otherwise drilled and drilled the border lock with all its might. But we are resisting this intention, and I think the majority of Hungarians are resisting it. There is no cunning that would distract us from our most important goal, because Hungary cannot be an immigrant country and it must remain a Hungarian country. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 1300!]] Thank you for listening. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: One minute left! Applause from the pro-government side.]]
u2018-01-30-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The country's real security. Mr Gábor Vona, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-01-30-5	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We came together today to listen to Viktor Orbán explain or explain after three years of lying, but Viktor Orbán was so scared that the Speaker's alibi escaped to Vienna and was so embarrassed that he even bought a seat for his backpack at the railway station. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But why is Viktor Orbán so scared? A few weeks ago, Kristóf Altusz said Viktor Orbán's autumn speech. Turns out you lied to your own voters for three years. For three years, 22,000 million forints were spent on this lie, with 2,300 people being secretly installed in the country for three years. Counting this as a perp, 10 million forints were spent on every hidden, hidden migrant. And then we didn't even talk about the 20,000 people deployed through bonds to Hungary. Your migration policy, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, has collapsed. You are unable to protect Hungary and let us say that you are, in fact, the government of resettlement. Fidesz is the government of introductions [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] And what's happened in the last few weeks proves that you, your communications and the operation of the entire government are extremely disturbed. Orbán said for the first time that we are talking about decent people knocking here. Then Sándor Pintér said that we were talking about very well-educated people. Then it turned out that there were serious criminals among these decently knocking and scanning people. But then came Németh Szilárd to save the situation. He told us to distinguish between the protected Somalia and the quotaed Somalia. How touching Szilárd Németh's sensitivity to the nuance was, but it is a pity that he did not do so in Németh, or it is a pity that we did not see such nuances in the text of the national consultation. Then came the rabid axe handle, the bill package, named "Stop Soros" The only problem is that civil society organisations that you wish to attack through this proposal have been supported in recent years, and their MEPs have voted in favour of the proposal for a law to support these civil society organisations. So, there's a lot of confusion, and I know what you guys do and what you're doing right now. They always take me out and take out Jobbik, and they always start spreading amazing lies about me and my party. It's happening right now, anyway. I would like to tell you that this is actually good for us, and that the Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian voters, are essentially showing who they are afraid of, who is the changeling power, and which party they are afraid of, because if they replace you, they will charge the Fidesz for corrupt cases. And it is well for you to be afraid and very well to be afraid, honourable Members, because we, Jobbik, in contrast to the majority of left-wing parties, want to replace you. We, Jobbik, in contrast to the majority of left-wing parties, can replace you, and again, unlike the majority of left-wing parties, we will have you accounted for after 8 April 2018. Now, obviously - Mr. Secretary, I see you're taking a lot of notes - we're going to listen to the daily press review of the Ripost. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] What they put together in the propaganda museum every single day, we'll hear how horrible we are, me and my party. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, after you have called this indictment, to leave time for one very simple question from your five minutes - you have just left me a minute - to answer the question, Mr Secretary of State, where is the Fidesz programme? Where can we find the Fidesz program? What's it called? Who wrote it? Because in 2014, at least they said that we should continue. Now they don't even dare say that? Where's the Fidesz program? Or at least tell me to go to Mr. Tállai, the last Hungarian polyhistorian, because he can provide information about the Fidesz program. Ladies and gentlemen, But Jobbik has plans after April 8th. In contrast to your war, we will create real security for Hungary. We will create real democracy in Hungary against your dictatorial aspirations. We will create real accountability and transparent public life against your theft and theft. We will create a competitive policy against your uncompetitive policy, which has also made Hungary a driving force in the region. Hungarian wages and pensions will be caught up at European level. Unlike you, we will stop the migration, and we will not allow young people to leave their own country because of the politics, because of the suffocating atmosphere you create. Unlike you, we will also restore the international prestige of Hungary, as you have ruined it, Hungary has become a notorious country under the leadership of Fidesz. And finally, we will, unlike you, be working on the real agreement, reconciliation and reconciliation of society, not the divisional policy that you have been working on here for the last eight years. Most of the Hungarian society, most of it, is fed up with this incitement, sharing, this constant mischief that you and your Prime Minister are doing. The Hungarian society wants peace, tranquility and peaceful, peaceful construction. And we will give this to Hungary after 8 April. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: That's right!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-01-30-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-01-30-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Don't lie. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. Party President, The fact is that we should be glad that he spoke Hungarian. This also has the advantage of not being able to run to the Google translator if he says unsuitable things. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] on the issue of immigration and today's debate: we understand and acknowledge that opposition parties are in great competition with each other about who can make more nonsense [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are the winner!]] But with this, I don't think they can fool people. I would also like to make it clear to you that Hungary has not adopted any immigrants, and to say the opposite is a lie. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 1300! The ceiling won't break! Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Criminals! The president's ringing the bell. Zoltán Haughty: And what did they come with? With a magic carpet?]] Fake news, it's just like a couple of years ago his troubles were videotaped. We have seen many of these lies on the part of opposition parties, on the left and on Jobbik. Immigrants are only wanted by the opposition, and unfortunately, Jobbik is also in the front row. Since last week, we have also known what the spiritual background for Jobbik is in the wider sense. Because what Gábor Vona said to young Islamics is nothing more than submission; submission to the idea that Hungary must live with migration and suffer all its consequences. That's why you could say things like you're afraid of no one but Allah. Please take responsibility for this statement. [[Dóra Dúró: You can do it in court!]] Don't blame it on the translator. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you afraid of?]] That's why you could say that Islam is the last ray of hope for you today. [[Dr. István Apáti: Look into his eyes.]] ; and if I understand today's news correctly, he also said, astoundingly, that he trusts that Hungary will leave the European Union as soon as possible and will join forces with its real brothers. [[13.20]] You recently claimed that you never argued against EU membership, and now it turns out that when you were abroad, you talked about it very much, campaign-like. You lied again. Can we think out loud: does Jobbik have nothing to do with Europe's thousands of years of Christian culture and tradition? Doesn't the opinion of millions of Hungarians who believe that Christian culture is in danger and must be protected mean anything to you? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You didn't allow him to be included in the Fundamental Law! Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, The thing is... [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The thing is, your sentences are hard to digest. [[Interviews from Jobbik's ranks, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President, the ceiling is breaking!]] But if we're through with this, it's gonna make sense. [[Interventions from the opposition side, including Dr. László Szakács: You can stop sooner! The president's ringing the bell.]] According to your sentences, we already know why Jobbik did not vote for the anti-quota constitutional amendment. [[György Szilágyi: You have not voted twice!]] We know why the referendum has been drilled all along. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: In this you are the champions.]] That's why you said in a commercial TV camera that when it comes to the introduction of a few thousand immigrants, okay, that's what we can talk about. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of Jobbik, including Daniel Z. Carpathian: In this you are the champions. Dr. László Kács: Do you still have a face?]] And the thing is, what you guys are doing, there's a lot to say about it, except that it's a national policy. This is the policy of a party and a party president who betrays anything, turns his back on anything, throws any former principle into the trash can, only a little power. [[Uproar, interrogations from Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who developed the housing program?]] Hardly was this policy asked for by those who voted for you in 2014. If anyone has anything to fear, it's you, the better voter's anger. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Did Nitrai dictate this?]] Dear House, Mr President, Maybe it's not a coincidence and it's very talkative that the Eger Jobbik group has recently been dissolved. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Talk about why your friends don't come in to work.]] As we know very well, Eger is one of the most important symbols of national standing, the story of the protection of the castle gave a compass for generations of patriotism and maintenance. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Many of us can remember from the Egri stars the oath of the castle protectors, a few lines of it. I'd like you to hear those who yell, and I'd like you to hear it. It says, "It doesn't scare me, it doesn't scare me. No money, no promise, no promise. I won't say anything or say anything about giving up the castle. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[A statement from Jobbik: Tell me more, Violin.]] On behalf of many of us, we regret that you have not read this book, or, worst of all, it means nothing to you at all. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why don't you go to work? György Szilágyi: You're lying!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-01-30-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[György Szilágyi: You lie constantly.]] Congressman Szilágyi, the situation is that you have not checked in before the agenda. I would have liked to have spoken to you. [[Noise, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks, including György Szilágyi: Lying constantly. Márton Gyöngyösi: Protecting the ceiling.]] Congressman Szilágyi! [[Constant noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr Bernadett Szél asked for the floor with the title of a truly extraordinary and urgent problem from the group of the LMP. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2018-01-30-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that taxpayers don't pay politicians to hang out from their jobs, so unless what happened to Fides is that Szilárd Németh has banned you from the Hungarian Parliament, then I think that they are accountable to Hungarian taxpayers, why they didn't show up at their workplace today. Because the May Other Politics has prepared for this day a problem that has caused people to strike over the past few years, and I think that you could have paid that raise in your pockets, the wage arrangement that you have demanded, and yet you have not done so. So spare me the different lines, the smoothing, the werbering, the migranting and all the other problems in the answer. Tell me why you didn't give the local government workers the raise; why the public sector is in a position to be in the position it is now. We're here on an urgent matter, and I can see that this case that we need to talk about is breaking up the framework of this Parliament. I respectfully welcome the leaders of the competent union, who took people on strike last month, and who stand up to get the money they need for their wages, even in spite of all the troubles in the campaign period. I would also like to announce that I find the way in which the House's leadership deals with the national security committee unacceptable. Here, in the Hungarian Parliament, I want to announce that László Kövér owes an answer to the population of the country, because at present there is a series of Hungarian national security services operating without any substantive civilian control. This can't stay like this. [[To the President:]] Be kind enough to convey to Mr Speaker my request that we expect an answer from him without delay. What does László Kövér say - and I ask you now - that Szilárd Németh will take over the role of national security services and declare me a national security risk, who happens to be a mother with two children, and I have a certificate that I am fully vetted? I can tell you that if you have a problem with the Soros Scholarship, you should look into your own eyes; you are crying out sin, and you have studied half of the Fidesz, Viktor Orbán, József Szájer, László Kövér, Tamás Deutsch, Zsolt Németh, Lajos Kósa, and Árpád Habony received Soros support. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Few.]] So they're all risks now? From now on, are they practically not here at the National Assembly because they all pose a national security risk? Of course, we all know that this is not the case, they simply hang out from their jobs. Well, there's a group of people here who over the last month didn't let the government cover up the reality fully with propaganda, and they're the ones who stood up for their rights. You don't just know what to do with the people on strike. You don't know what to do with local government workers going on strike. In January, this cessation was held, and they practically managed to crack a hole in the government propaganda wall. They showed that the alternative reality you are building is not in the thank-you relationship with everyday people's everyday problems. I think that respect for standing up on behalf of all of us, and with respect, I ask them to look at the answer to their problems from the mouth of the Hungarian government. What I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen of state, is that these people are looking up in the gallery for 200,000 people. They were the fourth to strike, more than 7,000 officials joined the strike, and they represented the interests of these hundreds of thousands of people. What I can tell you is that either you give these people a raise immediately, or it is quite obvious that you are not only trying to put municipal workers in a position of poverty for their employees, but it is true that you want to eliminate the local government in this country. We can clearly see that the news has spread, which clearly shows that you have declared war on the Hungarian countryside. By abolishing the local government in this country, without resources and powers, they make it completely impossible for the local governments to do so, practically mince everything that can be called democracy in Hungary. We will not allow this, we will not allow the Hungarian countryside to be completely impossible. What I see is that the most important thing now is to pay these people's wages, and this is also in our program - we, unlike you, have a programme - and we stand by to raise the civil servant's salary to 60,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I don't know who's going to answer, I want a clear answer: when will the salary fund be raised to 60,000 forints? We need an immediate pay supplement, not a fence-breaking propaganda. We have tabled the bill, it is in Parliament's proper writings, be kind, take it out and vote for it. I would like to point out that the Rogán Ministry has received as much money for an operation as these people's wages would cost. The Roganes received 46.7 billion in the budget to do the propaganda last time, about that could be solved, but otherwise the wages of the entire public sector could be paid out of 300 billion. Gentlemen, Let's talk real problems, and I want real solutions. We need excellent education, we need working health care and we need wage increases in this country. Tell me about it, and don't bullshit me. Be nice.
u2018-01-30-10	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Mr Pogácsás, State Secretary, replied to the speech by Ms Fraction Manager before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-01-30-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We agree that what is needed in this country is for people to work calmly, for the economy to be able to do more and more, and for all those working in any segment of the economy to get the right wage from economic performance, from taxes in the economy to raise the wages of public employees, and, of course, for those working in any segment of the economy. The Hungarian government has done a great deal to ensure that the country's performance is taken into account [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Answer! We need an answer.]] Not in debt to the country, wage increases should take place. In many areas of the public sector, career models have been introduced, with the help of which significant wage increases have been made both in law enforcement organisations, in health care and in the social field. We are not saying, we have never said that this is enough, obviously raising wages is still very important, and that economic policy, the policy that we are pursuing, creates the basis, the possibility for wages to continue to rise. An agreement has been reached with the continuous increase in the minimum wage, which affects the economy as a whole, affects the public sector and, of course, affects the private sector. At the same time, it is also clear that an increase in economic performance and efficiency have enabled wage increases in the competitive sector to continue. The local government sector, the local government system, represents a very important part of Hungarian democracy, the local government system is stable and serving the citizens of the country, providing the public services it operates well. [[13.30]] We can now say this, although we could not say this before 2010, because, on the basis of the 2009 report of the State Audit Office of Hungary, over HUF 1900 billion of resources were withdrawn from the municipal sector in the previous six years, thereby making it impossible for the local authorities to sell their own assets or to borrow them. After 2010, seeing this untenable state, the government settled the municipal loans. We have secured by more than HUF 1300 billion that the municipalities will regain their freedom of choice and have the opportunity to implement the operation and development from their own resources. In addition, municipalities that were not indebted were able to create improvements of some HUF 40 billion in a three-year grant scheme. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Honorary Fund, Secretary of State.]] Rethinking the division of tasks and changing the funding of tasks has created room for local governments to settle, including the salaries of local government workers, and has also created the opportunity for local authorities to function systematically, and it can now be said that for the third year the municipal system has closed with a positive saldo at the end of each marketing year, so they can close with additional revenue. From 2018, the Finance Act allows the municipalities to determine the salary base for themselves. This is because, in recent years, the municipalities have resolved in very different ways to provide different wages to the employees they consider worthy of the basic salary. [[You weren't even there, were you?]] The system allowed workers to be hijacked by 20-30 percent and 50 percent respectively, and now it is possible to increase the salary base. It can be said that the municipalities are able to decide on their responsibility and that the additional revenue left to them will also enable the majority to make payments [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true!]] to be hijacked in an appropriate way. In the case of the strike you mentioned, it is clear that they were also on strike in places where, for example, instead of the original salary fee of HUF 460 thousand, the employee of that grade was paid HUF 700 thousand and received a salary of over HUF 400 thousand, where the original salary is HUF 290 thousand. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What's the answer, Mr. Secretary?]] So, in the municipalities, this strike is essentially political, preparing for elections on your part, as is all the lies that have been spread over the last few days to limit the possibilities of the municipalities. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government side. Márta Demeter: Do they raise wages or not? Say no, then.]]
u2018-01-30-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Gulyás, leader of the Fidesz Group, asked to speak before the agenda with the title of our joint affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-01-30-13	I thought I was getting a present, I would have waited, but I'm sad to see that I'm not. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It hurts me that I didn't get the gift from the opposition, but I'm trying to get over this insult. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. We're taking the pieces off the tables from the Office Security Service. Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Don't take it!]] The reason for today's meeting, as shown in this presentation, is not three really important issues: immigration, pension systems and civil servants' wages. Today's parliamentary session is due to the opposition's desire to improve the insufficient of its own electorate to at least two. This is why Jobbik, MSZP and LMP joined forces, which is why Ákos Hadházy and Gábor Vona, Gergely Kulcsár and Bertalan Tóth, Márton Gyöngyösi and Attila Mesterházy joined forces. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] That is why people who have repeatedly given their word of honor to each other have never initiated or signed anything together. They joined together because they're failing, and they think that failure can be improved by lack of principle to two. [[Z. Kárpát, Daniel: Now an independent thought! Come on!]] Less than two months before the election, Hungary is not a government-changer, but an opposition-changer mood. But why would it be any different? In the course of the immigration crisis, we made it clear for the first time in Europe. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Is Serbia safe? Right?]] We're not willing to accept any immigrants. We resisted quotas from Brussels and built a fence at the southern border to stop illegal immigrants. We helped those in trouble, but we are not going to let Hungary become an immigrant country. [[Zoltán Pride: And on what basis did this happen?]] What have you done during this? At first, they said there was no immigration, only the government made it up. Then they said they didn't want the fence, and then when it was built, they said they couldn't wait to tear it down. [[Adam Mirkóczki: And when did Serbia become safe?]] Then they said that there was no cap-free resettlement quota, and then when the European Parliament initiated the introduction of this, the MEPs of the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the ally of the MSZP supported the proposal with their vote. So far, we have seen that the anti-quota constitutional amendment was blocked by the Hungarian opposition from Ferenc Gyurcsány to Gábor Vona in a united front. Until now, the government has been accused of mercilessly, now with excessive mercy. Those who initiated this extraordinary meeting together today have already proved one issue: Hungary's security must not be entrusted to them in the midst of the immigration crisis. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Tell us that Serbia is safe! It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The MSZP asked for an extraordinary discussion on the issue of the pension system. Is it the MSZP, which was in line with Parliament's normal meeting to take away the 13th month pension from the elderly as a result of its own bankruptcy government? [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Yay! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Eight years past! Dr. László Kács: Why didn't you give it back? Anita Herring: You've been fooling people for eight years!]] What would you like to discuss at the emergency meeting today? Since 2010, pensions have increased by almost 30 percent nominally, and the value of the buyer is about 12 percent compared to the consumer basket of pensioners. We have allowed women to retire after 40 years of employment. [[Nándor Gúr: Lies! Instead of serving time, you've established privileges!]] The pension premium and the Elisabeth voucher are also the result of recent years. It is therefore frivolous that people today want to act in the interests of pensioners who have been able to pay a pension only because the International Monetary Fund has granted an extraordinary loan after the state failure that they have created. No one disputes that it is still very difficult for many elderly people to make a living on pensions today, so pension increases and pension catch-ups must continue. [[Dr. László Kács: About 0.9 percent a year, right?]] The biggest threat today is the opposition that has already taken a month's pension from the elderly. And so must the civil servant's salary increase be continued. Since 2010, the average gross civil servant wage has increased from HUF 250 thousand to HUF 302,000; this is the October 2017 figure. Meanwhile, market wages have risen from a significantly lower level, some HUF 200,000 to similar heights. It is therefore not true that the change in the salary base would have resulted in a leasing freeze. Public service careers and wages should be discussed at the ordinary meeting of the Parliament, not as the current campaign theme of LMP or Jobbik. [[Nándor Gúr: For eight years, local government workers have not received a single penny increase in wages!]] Dear Parliament, Hungary is in a favourable position today. There are many more difficulties and tasks, but security and economic growth offer us all a chance of a calm development. It is a pity to challenge this because opposition parties cannot even meet the expectations of their own voters, and they are failing even before their own. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government side.]]
u2018-01-30-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Fraction Manager replied to his speech before the agenda, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor. [[Dr. László Kács: Hard! An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: I wouldn't be in the Gulyas' shoes!]]
u2018-01-30-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I understand the developments in the past few minutes. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] then the election programme and the election promise of the MSZP are two stuffed animals; we take note of that, but it is good that the Hungarians also know about it. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No, Viktor is the Szilárd the cowardly rabbit like you! You guys are cowards!]] But I do not want to respond beyond this frivolity, because since Parliament has not met in several weeks, I would like to report on a few things that can help many people's lives. Overall, Hungary has continued to grow in recent months. As far as the specifics are concerned, the minimum wage has increased by another 8 percent, the minimum wage for skilled workers by 12 percent. Sectoral wage-raise programmes are continuing, with higher wages, including law enforcement workers, higher education workers and employees of certain public companies. It has also been decided that the next 8 percent increase of health professionals will be brought forward by the government. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: so that there will be no strike!]] Another 3 percent increase in pensions. Family tax breaks are expanding, and the two children can write 35,000 forints a month. [[Zoltán Haughty: Who makes a million forints!]] Tax reductions have also been put in place, employers' taxes have decreased, which will open up the possibility for further wage increases, and not necessarily reduced the VAT on internet services to 5%. [[13.40]] Dear House, We hope that more and more people will feel the good performance of the Hungarian economy in their own lives, but the fact is that we can only take further steps if we can also strengthen and preserve the security of the country. [[Dr. László Szakács: That's why 20,000 settlement bonds get in!]] Today, immigration is the greatest threat to this. In the last two years, Hungary has become increasingly at the heart of the European debate on immigration, and this debate is not just about a policy, but about European identity, how we imagine Europe's fate, our own in it in the coming decades. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: You lead him out!]] This European debate is not over. We have allies, but there are clearly increasing forces moving to break Hungary, and those who believe that immigration is an opportunity and that a multicultural society is desirable. NGOs supported from abroad are moving, friends of immigration in Brussels are moving, bureaucrats and international organisations who are not elected by anyone, and there are a great deal of financial resources moving. It is a single pressure that cannot be ignored. This is why the government has put forward the proposal for a law of the Stop Soros, and if the House accepts it, then the organisations supporting and organising immigration will have to register themselves and they will have to pay a fee for their support abroad. The goal is for immigration planning groups to stop what they're doing. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Unknown people with unknown trucks!]] and avoid Hungary as far as possible. These are steps that are consistent with national consultations [[Zoltán Gőgös: Sarudon was also a member of the Migráncs! They've been to your ceglé.]] and the result of the referendum. By the way, the bill is topical that the resettlement programme has been started in Brussels in recent months in legal form. And in the meantime, there's been some developments back home, things are happening. Technically, the fence-breaking coalition has come together from many places, but the LMP, Jobbik, DK [[György Szilágyi: You're lying! You're lying!]] and the MSZP wants the same thing. [[György Szilágyi: You're lying!]] Speaking of Allah, who votes, who uses signatures, who operates with statements, but the point is the same: they would break down the border lock together, and they would launch the resettlements immediately. They are working with their foreign supporters to make Europe a multicultural continent and Hungary an immigrant country. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: 1,000 300!]] But as long as this government is in office, it's out of the question. Thank you for listening. [[Noise. György Szilágyi: Soros-government! Dr. László Kács: He praised the government for five minutes! Applause from the pro-government side.]]
u2018-01-30-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform you that no one has applied for a post-scheduled address. Dear Parliament, It's 13:42. I declare that 55 Members, by submitting the necessary supporting signatures, are required in accordance with Article 35 of the Parliamentary Act. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the Committee of Inquiry on the basis of the Government's resettlement policy, H/19475. H/19354 on measures to ensure safe ageing and a fair and equitable pension system. CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials. T/18839 on the amendment of Act T/18839 on the need to organise the wages of municipal officials. for the purpose of conducting discussions on the number 1 proposals. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote. Interventions: Visible majority!]] I am obliged to state that the Parliament is not capable of a quorum. I would like to announce that Mr Gergely Gulyás has by letter initiated the repetition of the vote by means of a ballot counting machine. [[It's a lot of noise.]] In line with the motion, I now ask my fellow Members to repeat their vote by voting machine. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Humiliate yourselves once more!]] also in order to ensure that the President in charge of the meeting is obliged to establish the identity of the missing persons [[And resign by name, Mr. President.]] and put it on hold for Parliament. So I'm gonna need a voter counter to cast the votes. I'll make sure there's no obstacle to voting on the ballot counting machine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask who adopts the agenda. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that 55 Members voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda [[It's a lot of noise.]] , 144 Members did not vote, so the Parliament did not accept the agenda, as Parliament is not able to reach a resolution. Dear Parliament, House rules are 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I shall establish the list of missing representatives, which shall be posted. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted on the basis of the provisions of the house rules, no item on the agenda may be discussed. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame!]] I will establish the list of missing representatives, which will be posted. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted on the basis of the provisions of the house rules, no item on the agenda may be discussed. (Nándor Gúr: Shame!) I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 19 and 20 February 2018. The meeting's closed. See you on February 19-20.
