u2015-10-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the autumn session is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be attending the meeting with Loránd Hegedűs and Lajos Szűcs notaries to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, I declare that the decision on certain house rules 3. § and 12. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, Mr Lajos Kósa has been elected as Head of the Group since 1 October 2015. Mr Lajos Kósa was elected as Head of the Group by the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association from 1 October 2015. (Applause. ) Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to thank Mr Rogan Group Leader for his work so far and to wish Lajos Kósa good luck. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech on behalf of the United Nations General Assembly. I give the floor to the Minister.
u2015-10-05-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for today's floor in front of the agenda for the 70th session in New York last week. I'll give you information about the UN General Assembly meeting. Of course, it was not surprising that the Assembly session focused essentially on the issue of migration, the issue of modern-day migration. The UN Secretary-General who opened the meeting also made it clear that as many people have never migrated from their homes around the world as they do today. About 60 million emigrated persons are reported in statistics. The biggest increase in the number of migrants was in 2014, and since the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has existed, so many migrants have never been mentioned in the statistics. And if we look, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the developments in the world, we can certainly see that the phenomenon of emigration is expected to increase, because in the last five years 15 major wars or armed conflicts have started or have been renewed or strengthened. The fight against climate change is also accompanied by limited success for the time being. The increase in water scarcity and the fight over water bases all confirm that, in the coming period, the phenomenon of emigration and, as a result, the emigration pressure will increase, among other things, in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also broadly agreed that the immigration pressure on Europe has two main reasons. One is that the breakthrough success of international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation continues to wait for itself - and here I have used a very low term - and that large parts of the Middle East and North African regions have become unstable due to international political decisions that have proved to be wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, It is therefore agreed that migration, the issue of migration, is a global problem and a global challenge. However, if we are faced with a global problem or a global challenge, it is obvious that a global response should follow, with global participation. This is of particular interest to Europe, because I believe that it is not difficult to see that if the immigration pressure on Europe will not decrease in the long term, it can also lead to the instability of the European continent. However, immigration pressure, the replacement of immigration pressure on Europe and its reserves are inexhaustible, it is enough to take into account the number of internal refugees living in Iraq, Syria, the sub-Saharan region, Libya, Afghanistan or Pakistan, or the number of people planning their emigration from there, in this respect the various international statistics already mention 30-35 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, Our global solution proposal looks like this. The Hungarian delegation proposed a solution of five points at the UN General Assembly. As a first point, we propose strengthening international engagement and international efforts against the terrorist organisation Islamic State. The reduction of ISIS has not yet been successful, and ISIS has acquired new areas, so it is clear that we need to increase international efforts. However, if we cannot reduce ISIS's reservations or reservations, the phenomenon of emigration will be strengthened in the neighbourhood of Europe. Secondly, and as a second point, the situation in the Middle East must be stabilised. This is obviously the key to the solution, Syria. A peaceful solution must be reached in Syria. We agree with the suggestion of the German Chancellor, that the broadest possible political discussions are necessary for the solutions through the negotiations, and that an illusion must also be dealt with. In this spirit, I think we should finally acknowledge that without the agreement between the transatlantic community and Russia and without coordinated actions, there will be no solution to the crisis in Syria. Thirdly, we have proposed the introduction of global quotas, because it is not possible to maintain that Europe is under pressure because of international political decisions in which Europe is not the only one involved - so it is right not only for Europe to bear the burden. Fourthly, we proposed strengthening UN peacekeeping operations, and fifthly implementing and fully implementing sustainable development goals. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] These objectives clearly state the need for regulated, orderly and secure migration. Thank you for your patience and attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-05-2	Thank you for the Minister's speech. According to the house rules, the factions now have 2-2 minutes to react. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, MEP of MSZP.
u2015-10-05-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Your government, headed by Viktor Orbán, is constantly interested in the search, maintenance and sharpening of the conflict, not in the solution. You will assist in this, Minister, and this is clearly seen in the statements made at the UN General Assembly by the European Union institutions and the neighbouring countries. [[13.10]] You highlighted Russia from the five points at the UN General Assembly, with whom you should cooperate in solving the refugee crisis, while still not clear on what international mandate Russia is bombing in Syria or without it, and the leaders of the Western Allied States have sharply criticized it. Interestingly, he did not highlight the European Union in his speech. Dear Minister, You are pursuing a very harmful and unacceptable policy. On the contrary, they want to increase the fear of the Hungarian people, so that as little as possible talk about corruption or that 38 percent of Hungarian people are now living in poverty, or that half a million Hungarians have been living in poverty in recent years, of the millions of immigrants you have mentioned. You know that the refugee crisis can only be dealt with and resolved through joint European cooperation. The leading figure of your European party family, Angela Merkel, has just made a statement and mentioned an action plan. We're curious to hear from the government and your position. You said at the UN General Assembly that, as a politician representing a Christian country, you rejected anti-Muslimism, and you pointed out that Islamic faith is not the root of the problem. Minister, I would like to know what the government's official position is then, because this is contrary to the Prime Minister's position. I'll be waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Interviews from the benches of Fidesz: No, it's not true! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-10-05-4	Congressman, I think you've got the wrong time. He probably thinks we're in the time of interpellation, but not yet, that's the speech before the agenda. So, unfortunately, the Minister has no way of answering to the public of Parliament, but he must be able to answer in the hallway or in the cafeteria with coffee. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That was high quality!]] Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2015-10-05-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, From the outset, Jobbik has taken the view that migration is not a party political issue, but a national issue in which the widest cooperation is needed here in our small country, because this issue is about the future of our country, not just our country, but also our continent and our civilisation. It seems that in vain we are waiting for international organisations, the solution is very difficult to come out of the actions shown by international organisations. This issue must therefore be resolved within the competence of a nation state. That is why Jobbik said that while we are waiting for international organisations, it is very important to protect our borders with all possible means, to restore the border guards, because it is clear that this is not the primary priority of police and defence, the military. They do their job well, but by restoring border guards, the best way to manage the migration wave is to manage it most effectively, and, of course, while protecting our borders, it is very important to gather migrants and immigrants in Hungary into closed camps away from the Hungarian settlements. International attempts at quota are not an appropriate solution. It's a wrong way. The international quota is one step better than the EU's quota, but we would also like to reject this, because until the end of the migration wave is seen, it is completely unnecessary to talk about how to distribute migrants who arrive on the European continent. We consider it very important to emphasise that the European Union is trying to tackle this issue effectively outside its borders, to provide assistance and financial support to Turkey, which is already [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it has huge problems dealing with migration; the European Union should help Turkey to address this issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-05-6	Thank you. Zsolt Németh will be representing Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-7	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I think it would be really important if we could get to the point that was also addressed before the agenda. Pavlovi's reflex to some parties to create a party political debate and talk about fear raising, as if Viktor Orbán had launched the refugee crisis on the international stage. I would like to welcome the government's five-point action plan. I think that the Prime Minister's going to the UN General Assembly was an extremely important, I might say, unprecedented diplomatic move on our part. I agree with the most important point that Peter Szijjártó said that the root causes must be eliminated: first and foremost, the end of the war in Libya and Syria would be urgent. On the other hand, I think that there is certainly truth to the fact that Russian air strikes have been somewhat worrying in recent days. The necessary coordination that would be essential for these air strikes does not seem to be implemented. Apparently, this is going to be a problem for the international community. I think it is indeed not a military task in the first place, as the Minister said here, it is important to start the political process. In this regard, of course, we must record that there is also a need for military presence, but the launch of the political process is essential. In this respect, the Obama-Putin meeting is certainly promising. At the same time, the US presidential campaign is not very favourable to this political process. The Hungarian position that a broad agreement is needed is an inclusive process in which Turkey, Syria, Iran and Saudi Arabia, where appropriate, can play a role, which is extremely important. I also fully agree that the principle of self-determination must be respected. It is not a task for the international community [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Remove President Assad. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-05-8	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, head of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are facing the consequences of a global crisis, there is no nation state solution to a global crisis. However, in terms of Hungary's position on the global stage, how to represent its national interests, what is the national minimum in which the parliamentary parties can agree, we initiated a five-party consultation weeks ago. Unfortunately, this did not happen. [[13.20]] Dear Minister, We need a global solution and a clear Hungarian position. The world quota is, of course, a good direction. We ourselves said weeks ago that the responsibility lies not only with the European Union, but also with the United States of America. The direction is good, but the question is how Hungary can act crediblely for a world quota, when it is Hungary that rejects all kinds of quota systems from scratch in Europe without an answer - and the Prime Minister did not have an answer - what if there is no quota system and they push back the asylum seekers registered in Hungary. What will the Hungarian government do in such a situation? Dear Minister, It is also about Hungary's need to recognise that our interest in life and our national interest is to have a more effective internal security, secret service cooperation and a deepening European immigration policy within the European Union. They're talking about ISIS, but ISIS is also an effect. Finally, we need to talk openly about the four main reasons for this whole crisis. On the one hand, the war policy in which Hungary has been a silent partner in the last 20 years, which was about the kidnapping of Middle East resources; it is not about spreading democracy and not about human rights. Among the reasons, there is the unequal trade that the core countries, the center countries are engaged in with the peripherals, the poorer countries, and there is the draining of labour; there are large companies that are already watching wage cuts and how people who stagger into the central countries of the European Union can be worked. Finally, there is climate change among the reasons, and this would require an energy policy turnaround in Hungary, too, in order to combat this. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-10	It's Peter Harrach's turn.
u2015-10-05-11	Mr President, Dear Minister, Indeed, migration flows are a global problem, no country or even a continent can stop this, so it is logical to propose an international quota in Hungary. At the same time, we must state that we cannot accept the mandatory European quota. And if I am referring to speeches, we must also state that we are not anti-Islamic, but anti-immigration. Of course, it would be good to answer three questions. One is the reason for the migration flows, what is the solution, and finally why some political forces do not see the weight of the problem. Among the reasons, of course, there are reasons other than policy, such is the demographic situation, but there are also good political reasons. I am thinking not only of preliminary interventions, but also of managed immigration. And what's the solution? Obviously self-defense in the issuing countries, because that is where the root of the problem has to be solved, of course, everywhere, taking into account the humane aspect. And why can't some people see the weight of the problem? Well, there's also a political and ideological reason for that. The answer to the political reason is to ask the question of where the masses of immigrants vote across Europe. There is a country in Europe whose President would not be President today if migrants had not voted for it. And the ideological reason? Well, it's obvious that faith in a multicultural society is behind this, and it's a series of over-the-top opinions spilled on political correctness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-12	Dear Parliament, We now turn to the comments of the representatives of the political groups before the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor once again to the leader of the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer, who, if you govern Hungary, will not be able to steal the land of the Hungarian people. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The migration crisis was an opportunity for the government to carry out the robbery in a government resolution without a parliamentary decision, because the government feared that the majority in Parliament might vote against it. It was the reverse, as with the Ángyán rural development strategy, that was not brought to the House because they feared that Parliament might vote. In less than two months, they want to throw 500 billion in land. There can be two goals: one is the redistribution of wealth during the period after Simicska, because there may be some budget holes. They do this in a country where the public debt was greater than 25 years ago, but 90 percent of the state's wealth disappeared in the same time, with 15-20 percent of its fate, but we don't know anything. 10 percent of community property today, the share of state property in Hungary, which is unprecedentedly low in the region. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that in a country where national wealth has already fallen tragically, the distribution of land resources is simply an assassination of future generations. Natural resources are a common heritage of humanity, and therefore their possession can only be communal. In addition, the community ownership of agricultural land is an integral part of Hungarian history and culture, let us consider the considerations of the Holy Crown doctrine quoted in the preamble to the Fundamental Law or the institutions of the Szekler public ownership. What the government is doing is contrary to Article P of the Fundamental Law and is also opposed to what is set out in Article 38 of the Fundamental Law. Once again, what we saw in the state leases will happen, that few will grab a lot and many will get little. In the summer of 2014, 37 percent of the winners, the land lease winners, and around 660 applicants reached less than 10 hectares, while only 2 percent of the winning interests and 94 applicants of 34 interests gained more than 300 hectares. More than three quarters of the areas leased in Borsod until 1 January 2014 and 10 thousand hectares were won by 170 successful tenders by 51 applicants out of the 138 county winners who had a large interest in such a relationship. The concept of local residents has been tricked so far. We have seen a local farmer registered for a parish, we have heard of a farmer in the local residence of Lőrinc Mészáros. The maximum land ownership of 300 hectares is brazen. Small estates, small settlements could develop with rent. There is no limit to a piece of state land that can be bought by a farmer. And most importantly, state land is also a means of employment and job creation in the hands of the state. Now they're throwing 380,000 acres. However, in 2014, only 150 settlements from the 3200 settlements could connect to the social land programme, over five years, and between 2010 and 2015 they gave a total of 1,000 hectares to small settlements. We believe that 150,000 new value-creating rural jobs could be created, if this particular 380 thousand hectares, which you now want to distribute to your friends, could be part of the social land programme, and these areas could also be converted to organic production. We believe that more smaller land users can provide value - building work for more people than a small number of farmers. Keeping an adequate amount of land in Community ownership is essential for the enforcement of national ownership policy. The government commits four crimes in one stroke: it increases the concentration of the land, freezes the poverty in the villages, in the countryside, and opens the way for foreign speculators, because we know exactly that the land is safe as long as it is managed by the state. For example, if the European Union reviews the Hungarian estate regulation, these areas can be passed away to foreign speculators in no time, but these foreign speculators may already appear to the new owners. Finally, they renounce the possibility of achieving the conservation and growth of the natural heritage and biodiversity of the Carpathian Basin by means of state resources. You will give up on this, as you have renounced the revision of the robbery privatisation after 1998, you have renounced the accountability after 2010. We will not give up the review of the current land robbery after 2018. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-14	Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, We've heard a number of political lounges from you, which I don't see at all. If you don't mind, I'd like to be in line for the mistakes you've made here. [[13.30]] First, there was no parliamentary debate. I have told you on many occasions, not only that there has been a parliamentary debate, but you have voted in favour of the law which is suitable for using state land either by selling or by renting. This is a two-thirds law that the Fidesz-KDNP faction could have voted for on its own, but you, when there was a professional debate and not a political debate, rightly supported and voted in favour of this law. I don't want to go to 500 billion in wealth, because it's one of those big-telling tendencies; 500 billion - and then we'll see how much revenue there will be. On the other hand, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, according to the most careful estimates, the revenue of this will probably be towards the waist of the state next year. So, from this point of view, there is no hole in the budget that needs to be filled with the sale of state land. In addition, 1666/2015. In a government decision, you can read clearly that the revenue from this is declared to be used by the government for the development and development of state assets. So it's not like you want to fill any budget hole in this. What you have said is that the land can only be community property, this is a very interesting approach; I have now heard it from several opposition representatives. Maybe it's just my age, but for some reason, I feel like we're over that idea in '90. In 1990, I feel that society decided not to believe in unlimited community ownership, especially not, let's say, in terms of land, but in terms of private ownership. For example, in Austria, which you have mentioned many times, there is virtually no state-owned field. We are talking specifically about fields, Mr. Head of the Group. I agree with you, by the way, if you have mentioned that protected natural areas, national park areas, should not be privately owned, but there is a law that has been implemented by the government since 95. I can't deal with fundamental law, too, because if the National Earth Fund Act has been in force for four years now, and it wasn't against the law, then I wouldn't think we'd run into this problem here. And with regard to old data: now it is October 2015, and you refer to the data of a county on 1 January 2014. By the way, in that county, more than 10,000 hectares of lease applications have been announced ever since. I don't know how to get this here, but since we're talking about this land for the farmers' program, I would also like to remind you that 600 people used these land in the past, they now have more than 7,500 land users. It is also important to mention that the average size of the estate is 40 hectares. It's not the National Land Fund, it's the National Park, where there's even more serious pastures. At the National Land Fund, the average size of the estate is about 20 hectares. By the way, it is also important to note that you have mentioned some data that over a thousand young farmers have acquired the right to use almost 50,000 hectares of public land. With regard to employment, I would also like to mention to you that, in fact, in terms of land or land use, although there must be a great deal of employment requirements, but let us face it, in terms of employment, it means a great deal if, let us say, in the gardening sector those areas are cultivated if, say, animals are kept. For the sole purpose of who owns or owns the user, I can prescribe hundreds of employees: there must be many employees if they carry out sectoral cultivation or occupation or production. In order to do this, we need funding, not legislative requirements. It is also a factual error in your speech that it would favour speculators. I'm telling you, but you should know, because it's in the government's resolution that there's a 20-year ban on disposal charges in these areas, and the state has a right to repurchase. He says that these areas are being defrauded by the government, while, by the way, they can be obtained under legal conditions at a public auction. If there are legal terms and public auction, so the money, the price, is not affected by the government, plus it cannot be sold for 20 years, then why is it in favour of speculators, dear Congressman? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would just like to add one more, not abusing the time frame, that out of the 50,000 local map numbers, Mr. Group Leader, 41,000 under 10 hectares. It's not a big time, it's not a speculator's pace. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2015-10-05-16	Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, member of the KDNP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Last week, I attended the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg with several fellow Members. Of course, the most discussed topic, as many have described, was the immigration disaster. Almost all the speakers called for a common European solution. I do not want to talk about this now, but about the fact that almost all the reports debated in the cultural committee are a recurring message that global problems should be addressed in school. Such a global challenge is the learning of foreign languages. Once again, we have had to face the fact that it increases the interests of individual countries when they have a large number of excellent experts who speak world languages, who are prepared and courageous, and dare to speak in debates without interpretation. I have met many foreign experts and representatives once again, who have no problem expressing their views in foreign languages, and with a good voice, we can experience a mood, either to nuance a majority opinion or to turn it around. Unfortunately, we are still struggling with the burden of poor foreign language knowledge in Hungary. Tens of thousands of degrees have been stuck in there for many years, because the young, college-educated professional was unable to pass the language exam. I would say that there are very few of them who have failed in this area because of some demonstrable lack of ability. Neither do many people apply in time or in time for acknowledgment programs, and they always find advocates who exonerate them for misinterpretation of humanity or other reasons and ask for a degree without a language exam. In order to prevent this situation, it was stipulated by law that after 2020, only secondary language exams could be applied to higher education. Four to five years to go. All students and language teachers should already be working to reach the desired level. Instead, however, we often hear the false statement that in high school it is impossible to prepare for a language exam. I am fully aware of my professional responsibility as a language teacher that this is not the case. Ten thousand numbers per year of high school students prove that they may just need conscious, professional, intensive teaching and hardworking student work. And, of course, a national language education strategy that has been needed for a long time. For example, the proposal of the draft prepared three years ago in the EMMI to continue teaching the first foreign language should be put into effect. We have reduced the number of languages to be taught in primary schools so that this necessary measure can be subject to human and material conditions everywhere. And we have them, but our public education system doesn't pay attention to pursuing this strategically important goal. And in this academic year, dozens of high schools started teaching both foreign languages from scratch, which is wrong, resulting in wasted time going backwards. I do not wish to mention the further elements of a language strategy here, because this is not primarily the job of the politician, but of the professionals, not of the union, I note, but it would be right for the creators to ask and follow the proposals of many successful high school language teachers to formulate the goals and tools. The Council of Europe's Committee on Culture has recently commissioned me to report on the use and situation of minority and regional languages in Central and Eastern Europe within a year. It's a serious task, and I'm happy to do it. However, this issue, which is a priority for us from a national political point of view, also has foreign language education aspects. It would reflect well on Hungary if I could report on our successes in this area in a year's time. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2015-10-05-18	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, For this work on regional languages, I believe that we can wish you good luck, because preserving Europe's diversity for us Hungarians also means giving Hungarians across the border the right to use the language in the same way as anyone else in Western Europe. If European citizens are indeed equal, then the same cultural right, or even territorial autonomy, or the right to manage in their own mother tongue, could be the same as that of a Hungarian outside the Hungarian state borders, whether in Swedish, Finnish relations, Scottish relations or anywhere else. To this, I think we all wish you good luck, and we will certainly help you with that, if possible. As far as the issue of foreign language learning at home is concerned, with which Mrs President has also started her speech before the agenda, we wanted to strengthen language learning through the National Basics Plan and in other ways in public education, which is a quality, efficient and sustainable, a long-term system that is accompanied by quality language learning in the framework of a high-quality education. We have made a number of provisions on language learning in recent years, in which a large part of the representative woman has also been involved. On the one hand, most importantly, the main rules are set out in the National Basic Training Plan, as there we provide for real language activity, the knowledge of authentic texts is determined by the National Basic Training Plan. We have tried to optimize the requirements that we impose on students for the age group and the number of lessons we learn. We considered it important to introduce differentiated education and improve communicative competences, as many have had a bad experience before, even after the change of regime, that language learning is done in the same frontal manner as all others. The students were less involved, less developed by their ability to speak, but only learning, memorizing foreign language words, or plotting language rules, was part of the curriculum. Obviously, this was also due to the fact that for a long time there was a huge shortage of foreign language teachers, i.e. language teachers speaking Western European languages. It is now fortunately improving, far better than it was after the change of regime, but placing these skills, communicative skills in a situation where young people need to use their language skills, and which obviously gives them a success experience, it is important to continue to expand. In 2012, the government made the decision to regulate the range of foreign languages that could be first taught, which became English, German, French and Chinese. These are the four languages that should be used first and the students must learn first. The continuity of language learning is important, and you referred here to cases where this might not have happened. The regulation itself makes it clear that one of these four languages must be chosen as the first foreign language, obviously together with its parents, and when it moves from the primary institution to a secondary institution, then, of course, the teaching of this first foreign language must be ensured continuously. So it's not supposed to stop this process. If someone starts in a language, they should be able to continue learning that language in high school. What he learns as a second language there, but in it, the school, obviously, has a free choice with the parents about the language they choose depending on the existing capacities. The first foreign language must begin at the latest in the fourth grade of primary school, and the second foreign language can be started from the seventh grade. But we can usually say that they start teaching the second language from the ninth grade, and we used to call it the first grade of high school, didn't we? At least two foreign languages have to be taught in high schools, a foreign language is required in vocational school and a second is recommended, while a foreign language is required in vocational schools. We are trying to prevent the lack of a language teacher mentioned above by increasing the language supply for students through the training of two-student teachers. When we look at how much time we spend on teaching languages in the system of public education, we see that the number of hours exceeds about a thousand hours. This is high if we compare the EU averages, the average number of individual countries, compared to a significant number of hours, so it should not be the expansion of the number of hours in Hungary, it should be enough to improve the quality of the hours, increase efficiency, use of information and communication technologies or even the introduction of summer training courses to which it is possible to provide assistance. It is also because secondary language skills will become a requirement for inclusion by 2020. Even now, from this year onwards, there will be A1 and A2 assessments of expected knowledge levels in the 6th and 8th grades. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-20	Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-21	We now have a speech from a member of the MSZP Group, Mr Zoltán Lukács, before the agenda:. More billions for the lie factory? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2015-10-05-22	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You've been ruling for five years, slowly filling half of your second term, even if we consider the gang wars of the last year as government. Well, what you've achieved so far is that 38 percent of the population is living in poverty, people are living more and more difficult lives, and more and more people who have jobs are having difficulty living. Workers' poverty is present, there is an increasingly difficult livelihood in the country. And in this situation, you have tabled a budget amendment, in a situation where more and more people are saying that there is a need to give people a raise, more and more people are saying that it is not possible to make a living with that kind of money in this country, and that more and more people are standing next to this idea. You have tabled a proposal for a amending budget, and I have already thought that you might have this idea, but we have been disappointed. This amending budget is once again about a barely secret overhang. There are two parts: on the one hand, you would like to place HUF 60 billion on the list of extraordinary government measures, and on the other hand, you would like to add another HUF 47 billion to the lie factory known as the public television. By HUF 60 billion, you say it's used to deal with the refugee crisis. We could stand next to you on this issue if you didn't want to put this money on the line where you're not sure you're going to use it for asylum, because you've already spent on peach seeds from this line, and you've spent money on football, and you've also spent on supporting football academies. If this has produced extraordinary government results or measures, then that is certainly the case. We have tabled an amendment in this, and all we want is for this HUF 60 billion to go to the wallets from which we can see that it will actually be spent on the refugee crisis, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the EMMI will be where we want to put this money. Here we are assured that this money is actually spent on what is needed, not on football academies, which is obviously very important, but I think that with football academies, the refugee crisis cannot be overcome. I see that you have the opposite opinion. The 47 billion forints are to be poured into the Hungarian Television, which has already received some 600 billion forints in five years. 600 billion forints were applauded there in the lie factory we used to call Magyar Television, in better times, where there is forgery, where, by the way, there is not invented, but proven forgery, where hundreds of millions and billions are spent on programs that are not watched by those who do it. Allow me to remind you of the highly successful Martian series, in which billions were poured, and, by the way, even the cameraman turned it with his eyes closed, it was so terrible, nobody even looked at it, it failed after three parts, but they put terrible money in it. And we could list how the Hungarian Television's money spills on external productions. After 600 billion, you want to give 100 billion more this year, and you want to take over 47 billion in debt. I think this is not eligible. We also recommend that the Hungarian Television should not receive more money in this form, because we are already spending much more on it than it deserves. This is so much money, this 600-700 billion HUF, that a significant increase in salaries could be financed in the public sector. This is the amount of HUF 600-700 billion that could significantly reduce waiting lists, raise pensions significantly, spend significant money on public education and higher education. But you somehow believe that this HUF 600-700 billion is not working well, it is unsuccessful, it is not able to produce ratings, and otherwise I would like to invest in a scandalously partial lie factory in your news programs. [[13.50]] Ladies and gentlemen. We ask you to support our amendment in this matter. Put the 60 billion on the general line, not on the general line, but on the list where it really is to deal with the refugee crisis, on the lines of the wallets, on the line of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the EMMI. We ask you not to put any more money into MTVA, put money in people's pockets, support them, steal more money through public television. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-23	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-24	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have seen another example of what it is like when the tsunami of hatred is flooding the House. [[Rumor and clarity from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Honourable Congressman, When you talk about the fact that the last year has been characterized by a gang war, you've obviously talked about your own internal relations, not about the disciplined and public good governance that characterizes the activities of the third Orbán government. You're talking about 38 percent of the poor, honourable Member, it's almost such a recurring cliché, tops in your speeches. [[Lajos Korózs: The latest research of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences!]] and any information that lacks reality and actual data, to which the whole of Hungarian society is, by the way, disproved, and which is obviously not true. But to look at what the truth is, honourable Member, we have been ruling since 2010, with a reduction in the number of people exposed to poverty in Hungary by 241 thousand since 2010. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] In 2010, when we took over the government from you, there were 3 728 900 employees, at the end of the first half of 2015, 4 224 000 people, with a total of 495 100... [[Moors and constant interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-05-25	May the Socialist Members remain silent and listen to the Secretary of State's reply in a disciplined manner, as he believes the Government is working. [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Here you go.
u2015-10-05-26	Thank you very much. So this is a total increase of 495 100 people. The unemployment rate, honourable Member, was 11.2 per cent in 2010, today 6.8 per cent. That's a 4.4 percent drop. The number of unemployed people at the end of your administration was 470 700, currently 306,000, i.e. a reduction of 164 700. Given the internal distribution of those in the position in the competition sector in 2010, at the time of the change of government, there were 2 million 941,000 people working, at the moment 3 million 891,000, so you can't even accidentally write this improvement for the benefit of community service. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That is not true either!]] 99 300 people worked in public employment in 2010, at the moment 222 thousand. These numbers speak for themselves, honourable Member. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Jesus!]] At the same time, I am very surprised to hear that you would like to give the Ministry of Defence the source that will, by the way, strengthen the framework for extraordinary government measures, so that the government can, with a decision, immediately provide resources where it is needed. A few weeks ago, you spent the entire press on the grounds that the Ministry of Defence and the defence did not need to be involved in dealing with this crisis. You did not vote in favour of that bill, but you were here in this House in an impeccable manner. [[Fury and murmuring from the ranks of the MSZP.]] which, by the way, guarantees their participation in the protection of the country's borders. Now you're asking us why we're not giving the funds directly to the military. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Talk about the peach seed!]] There is some contradiction here, honourable Member. Let's not forget, until now, we have spent more than HUF 34 billion as additional costs to deal with the migrant crisis this year, by the end of the year, if it stays this way, as it is now, we will still have to spend more than HUF 30 billion on it. This HUF 60 billion is a buffer, which is needed to extend the framework of extraordinary government measures so that the government can decide just how much it will be needed to deal with the crisis. With regard to your public life, I can tell you, honourable Member, we wouldn't be here if you hadn't sold the TV station here in downtown, we wouldn't be here if you were in the world's most despicable PPP project. [[Zoltán Lukács: Fociacadémia!]] We wouldn't be here if we hadn't spent the last five years cleaning up the ruins you left behind. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: 80 billion? It wasn't 80, it was 100!]] You are here, honourable Member, talking about counterfeiting, while the Freedom of the People, supported by your party foundation, has forged the Teller letter; we all remember it. You're talking about counterfeiting, and you're talking about a lie factory, while newer and more TV channels have started, and, indeed, when you come up with the numbers here, you're acting like the total budget that goes into financing the Hungarian public media system wouldn't finance the communications, wouldn't finance the Telegram Bureau. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] would not finance radios and televisions. If anyone's not telling the truth, it's you, Congressman. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: It was very weak! Zoltán Lukács: Well, I think you're going too, not just the Robbie! Dr. Répássy, Robert: You wish, but you don't decide.]]
u2015-10-05-27	For a speech before the agenda, MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, on behalf of Jobbik, asked for the title: "What is the fact, is the fact." Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a fact that five years ago you promised results, fundamental purification, reforms and a positive change in Roma integration. It is a fact that the Prime Minister considers domestic Gypsy as a hidden resource, and as a result, or as a result, a strategic cooperation was concluded between the government and the National Roma Municipality. However, it is also a fact that one of your ministers, János Lázár, said that the government really sees the National Roma Municipality as a strategic partner, but not the police and the NAV. I think it's possible to humor this, but it's a lot harder on a minister's mouth than anyone could ever imagine. It follows that the integration of Gypsy is the result of your failure and total failure of the Fidesz government. It is also a fact that those responsible, suspected or real thieves, fraudsters and fraudsters are not only held accountable, but they continue to exonerate, hide and provide frameworks to continue to commit this rampage and these crimes of public law. In fact, none of the scandals are over, and here comes the next one. Over the past few weeks and months, we have talked a lot here in Parliament, and many times in the various press organisations, the "bridge to the world of work" programme was also the subject of public speaking. The latest news is that one of the journalists of Magyar Nemzet visited the regional offices where there is supposed to be a labour agency, but there is nothing in practice on either site, but the money is missing. And then there's no end to any of the scandals, and here's the next one. The person who followed up on the meeting of the National Roma Municipality last Thursday had a lot to deal with, with the most obscene, obscene terms, how can I say, during the time spent working, but with one, not that there would be meaningful events and meaningful results. What makes everything loud about the National Roma Municipality is opaque payments, opaque, secret contracts, various unauthorized reimbursements, half-million-and-a-half-million-and-some other dude payments. And what have you done, what do you do? Well, the person who would be primarily responsible for all of this as Minister for Foreign Affairs can continue the amok run that he started a long time ago, because for example, the latest scandal: between 2011 and 2014 the National Roma Municipality is unable to account for a budget of HUF 330 million. And who was the leader of this period? The Farkas Flórian, who, as Minister's Commissioner, is probably not interested in clearing missing money during his regency. In fact, over the last five years, there have been more procedures for Roma integration money than you have paid for in the last five years, and not too little has been done. It is also a fact that you have lost all the ground to speak truthfully or responsibly or honestly about the integration of Gypsy in the future. [[14.00]] As long as you don't pour clean water into the glass, and until those bastards within your own circles who have been accused of disappearing hundreds of millions of forints in the last five years have been wiped out, it is very difficult for you to talk about how, how and what results you want, or what you think you have achieved. What you are doing is nothing different than what MSZP-SZDSZ has done in the name of Roma integration, and in particular how to secure easy, cheaply buy votes from public funds every 4 or 5 years. You are doing the same thing, by contrasting thieves at the head of these funds, they can decide in one person, as lords of a kind of life and death, about millions, many, many, many, many, many of the existentialities which, in principle, either the European Union or the Hungarian taxpayers are destined to lead to the most disadvantaged, but to prosper with honor and honor. So one word, like a hundred, in terms of Gypsy integration, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They failed, they failed. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-29	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-05-30	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can reject and deny a lot of what you have said, but let's start from the beginning. What was the change in 2010? You know the period before 2010 when a socialist-liberal taboo system was part of the whole Roma integration or Roma catch-up programme. We considered this to be one of our most important tasks here, even as the largest resource. A separate State Secretary has been established, we have adopted an independent Hungarian national social inclusion strategy to advance this issue, and we have established a whole dialogue system. Moreover, there has been, to say, a complete change in this subject after 2010, so that the European Union adopted, for the first time in 2011, precisely by means of a Hungarian initiative and the work of the Hungarian Presidency, a European strategy on Roma issues, recognising that this issue exists, this needs to be addressed, and it cannot be dealt with only in one country, but it must also be done at European level. Hungary was the first to take this to the European level, and at last it began to address this issue, not only to deny it, but not only to give a few hundred million forints to one or two foundations, who, where appropriate, make press coverage of a case, but also to find the root of the issue and try to remedy these social problems there. We have adopted a multi-annual action plan, we have a monitoring system, we have a wide variety of conciliation forums, we have set up an inter-receiving committee on social inclusion and Gypsy affairs. The evaluation committee carries out a specific task and the anti-segregation round table also evaluates the situation from time to time with the involvement of civilians. The economic forum for catching up is obviously intended to strengthen this economic side even further. A local equal opportunities programme has been adopted and a specific programme has been launched for the purpose of the housing and catching-up strategy for those living in local conditions. So these are all materials that have been created, which did not exist before in Hungary, and now they are trying to solve this issue, this very important social issue that is burning for Hungary. And this is no different than with partners from the world of gypsy, especially the National Roma Municipality may be the partner of the current government, who is legally invited to represent the entire Roma population in Hungary. Therefore, we can do two things, honourable Member, for the use of these resources. One of the government's responsibilities is to set targets, this also means indicators, and the other is the responsibility of the government: to monitor regularity and to act in the event of irregularities. These are the two parts where the government has a responsibility. We have invested a considerable amount of various operational programmes to help those areas, to help those communities, to those people who need help. You know that TÁMOP sources, TIOP sources, have been a very abundant source. We have launched a Travel Scholarship Program, we have launched a programme for Knowledge Actively, a Women's Chance Programme, precisely so that we can help young people to complete primary school, get to secondary school and go to university, so that women who have been at increased risk of poverty can be helped. We included the teaching of the history of Hungarians and Gypsies living together. We have established legal frameworks, such as the employment cooperative, which can help those who themselves want to break out of poverty, and we have also concluded agreements that, obviously, in public investments, who acquire some kind of education from the unemployed in such an employment cooperative, they are most likely to be employed. In this way, we have created opportunities and concrete programs for those who want to work to acquire the skills for all of this, and then to have a need to carry out his work. Obviously, the Bridge into the world of work is already known here in Parliament, and you and other factions have expressed more concerns about this. I think you have seen very little in the history of Hungarian politics over the last 25 years that a government has all the EU funds, support, and the same strict accounting for beneficiaries. This has not been the case in the case of the Bridge in the world of work; I believe that in the last 25 years there have been few programmes, which have become so transparent, and we have paid so much attention to regularity. That's why we started several investigations, with effect from 31 July, which is why we delivered the subsidy amount from nearly HUF 5 billion to HUF 2 billion 520 million, and that's why we changed the indicators, and that's why we started [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 12 cases of investigation and 11 cases of irregularity, because we found irregularities, precisely to preserve the credibility of these grants. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-31	I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, the last in the line of speeches before the agenda. Here you go. He will address his speech with the title Szociáliberal Threat Against Hungary.
u2015-10-05-32	Mr. President. Dear House, Several important decisions have been made in recent weeks regarding the flood of immigration in Europe. One is that the Liberal Group of the European Parliament has announced that it will initiate proceedings in the European Parliament against Hungary on Article 7, which means that they have initiated what they have never initiated before to deprive Hungary of its right to vote. It's an obvious political revenge. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] because Hungary represents a position on immigration, which, by the way, is humane, in line with our international conventions, but saying that we cannot, we cannot let everyone into Europe, and we must protect the borders of the European Union. Two weeks ago, the Council of the European Union took a decision to introduce a compulsory quota for migrants. The numbers range from 40,000 to 160,000. Even this is a matter of debate and interpretation, but the Council of the European Union has also given two years to introduce this system and provision. This is absolutely absurd, because only this year more than 300 thousand illegal immigrants arrived in Hungary alone, more than 176 thousand asylum applications were submitted in Hungary alone and where the end of the year is. In the European Union, the number of migrants will exceed one million arriving this year; let us compare this with 40,000 to 160,000 in two years. This migration quota is nothing, not a solution, a false solution. For this reason, the Fidesz parliamentary group at today's political group decided to invite the Hungarian Government to act against the introduction of a mandatory quota by examining all existing instruments. The mandatory quota does not comply with international requirements in terms of form or content. The introduction of a compulsory quota means that the Council of the European Union is withdrawing from Hungary a right to self-determination that it had no right and opportunity to do. Each state must determine for itself who its citizens are, on what condition it allows anyone to enter its territory, and on whom people it normally receives and who it wishes to live with them for a longer or shorter period of time in its territory. [[14.10]] This right cannot be removed from any state. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] If this right is governed by international treaties, for example, on the issue of refugees, they do not detract from Hungary, but they do not deprive anyone of this right. According to international law, it is up to the public authorities to decide on whom a State grants refugee status. The idea that a centre, in Brussels or anywhere else in the world, must make a decision that without having a say in it, it must let in and permanently deploy various ethnic groups for any consideration, this is unacceptable. This violates sovereignty to an extent to which no one has been authorized by the Hungarian legislation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That is why we say that we ask the Hungarian Government to look at the opportunities available from the European initiative until the Hungarian Government comes to the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg, look at the possibilities, but do everything possible to review this decision. From a point of view, the absurdity is obvious: 600 thousand have arrived so far, only through Hungary 300 thousand migrants, and we are talking about solving the problem of the migrants here in two years - someone - between 40,000 and 160,000. It's so absurd that you don't have to justify it anymore. I think that everyone who has sworn an oath to the Hungarian Fundamental Law and a little bit of an idea of what Hungary's self-determination is should support this endeavour, which was made by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-33	I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, Clearly, Europe has not yet found the answer to how to address the biggest challenge in the history of the European Union. I think there are basically two reasons for this. On the one hand, there is no consensus on the nature of the phenomenon or no consensus on the size of the phenomenon. With regard to the nature of this phenomenon, I think that it is necessary to speak directly to each other and that European hypocrisy should be stopped. This is not a refugee crisis, but a mass migration in modern times, and I think it is enough to say that it has an inexhaustible supply of humanitarian aid in Iraq, 12 million people in Syria - more than 7 million of them internally - are talking about 12.5 million internal refugees in the sub-Saharan region, and then Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya, Yemen were not brought here. So it is easy for 30-35 million people to make a decision in the coming period that will result in the ongoing pressure on immigration in Europe. With regard to the debate on compulsory quotas, Mr Group leader, we believe that the debate on it was also harmful, given that it took time to find real solutions. He was able to make it look like the European Union was doing something, while it was completely a useless act. We also found this debate to be damaging because it clearly created political tensions between the EU Member States, and it was understood as an invitation, not only by immigrants, but also by the villains who are called smugglers and who, as an invitation, have further increased the immigration pressure on the European Union itself, Europe. All I can add to this absurdity, Mr Group Leader, is that the last debate was on the distribution of 120,000 immigrants, and while we continued the debate on this distribution of 120,000 people, more than 120,000 people came into the European Union, not to mention those who have arrived since then and those who arrived before. Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that until the European Union has agreed on how to regain control of its own borders, any debate on quotas is completely pointless. Until we can regain the opportunity to reduce immigration pressure so that we can keep inflow within a regulated framework, there is absolutely no point in any dialogue on quota. Moreover, this decision on compulsory quotas from the point of view of implementation - how shall I put it - is questionable, it is difficult for me not to bring here the word "the unenforceable". The decision is that there is only the possibility of this particular relocation, i.e. the resettlement of immigrants, from the so-called hotspots - to bring another beautiful Hungarian word here. These hotspots will be stations with some kind of European Union staff, where it will in principle be possible to decide who is entitled to European protection, who is entitled to refugee status and who is unable to count or claim it as an economic immigrant. But to this day, no agreement has been reached as to where these hotspots will be created, whether they will be created at all, in what form they will operate, who will work there, what legislation will regulate their activities, so we can write here another significant question mark for executability. Not to mention that no one spoke about secondary immigration, and they could not answer that question. What guarantee is there that anyone who will be deployed under this rule in Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia will not want to go to Germany the next day? And from the point of view of the Schengen area, how are we going to resolve that people settled in countries other than Germany within the Schengen zone should not go to Germany the next day? So the probability of a Schengen border being free for all, except for relocated, I think that at present and in general it is difficult - so that I can only increase absurdity. So, Mr Group Leader, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate on the compulsory quota was a bad debate, that the compulsory quota is in no way a solution for Europe, and that the mandatory quotas are even worse for Europe in terms of immigration pressure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-35	Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I call on Mrs Loránt Hegedűs to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-10-05-36	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Szimeon Varga; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz; István Hiller, MSZP; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Bernadett Szél, LMP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik. On Tuesday, László Varju, independent; Tamás Turgyán, minority speaker; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik.
u2015-10-05-37	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President in his power to speak. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 85. § (1) allows the Parliament to invite the committees negotiating the report to take a decision. In the absence of a committee consensus, this shall be presented by the President. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. B/3743/2. I ask the Honourable Parliament, on the basis of Opinion No 1 of January to 31 December 2014, whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to ask B/3743 on the activities of the Public Procurement Authority during the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014 and on the experience of appeals cases. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the committee to take its decision by 113 votes in favour, 48 against. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, Now it is up to four members of the Hungaricum Committee to choose. President of the Parliament S/6453. has presented its proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. XXX of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums Act No. 14 According to Article 4 of the Hungaricum Committee, four members are delegated by the Parliament. On the basis of the pro-government nomination, the Speaker of the National Assembly, Sándor Lezsák and István Simicskó, on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, and Mr Varga Simeon, on the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, invites Mr Zoltán Magyar on the basis of the opposition nomination. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected the candidates to the Committee by 135 votes to 14, with nine abstentions. Dear House, Now the solemn oath and the oath papers will be signed. So I ask Mr. Sándor Lezsák, István Simicskó, Zoltán Magyar and Mr. Varga Simeon to come to the center of the room and take the oath. And I invite notary Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath, and the members of the Parliament to listen to it as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Sándor Lezszak, Dr. István Simicskó, Zoltán Magyar, Szimeon Varga steps into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-10-05-38	I, Sándor Lezsák / István Simicskó / Zoltán Magyar / Varga Simeon vow that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as a member of the committee for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2015-10-05-39	I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and the four elected members of the Hungarikum Committee to sign them. [[It's happening. József Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates the members of the committee individually and hands over one of the examples of the signed oath document. The elected members were congratulated by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Lajos Kósa, Dr. Bernadett Szél, Dr. Gábor Staudt and János Volner.]] Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of my fellow Members, to wish good work and good luck to the recently elected members of the committee. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:24 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Anita Heringes and László Szakács, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. It's an address. I give the floor to Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-40	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, your Minister, Sándor Fazekas, has been leading the Ministry of Rural Development and later the Ministry of Agriculture. Over the last five years, abuses have been detected around the Ministry, which the Minister claims he knows nothing about. One or two examples. In the 2009 tax year, 1 percent of the offer for detachment was just squandered. After several signals, the Minister postponed the removal of serious pollutants at the border of Hortobágy National Park. István Horváth worked as Minister for Pig Programme from the beginning of 2013, according to the Minister, he appointed him only in August 2014. There is also Szilárd Kiss, who was Minister for Eastern Economic Relations for nearly three years until 14 December 2014. Now and then, he's been arrested in advance. The Minister said he wasn't in any closer contact with her. The latest case is the case of a company in the Ministry of Agriculture, a hundred percent state-owned TIG. According to press reports, TIG gave HUF 1.6 billion to Hungária Érték Zrt. As a result of the investigative journalist's work in the press, we know the following. The Reserve Management Ltd. On 22 January, the Chairman of his Supervisory Board initiated the initiation of an investigation within the TIG. However, this internal investigation was only approved by the new CEO on 25 February; it is interesting, just on the day that Viktor Orbán instructed his ministers to withdraw state funds from brokerage companies. The suspicion that something is not quite right within the TIG, so it came up a month before Buda-Cash fell. However, neither the CEO of the company nor the Ministry of Agriculture did anything, although the government secretary had to know about the request to launch the investigation. Minister says he didn't know what was going on inside the TIG. However, the main task of this company would be not to purchase securities through brokerage firms, but to provide basic care for the population and to meet certain needs of armed forces and law enforcement agencies in the event of any market disturbance or qualifying period according to their mission. Mr. Secretary, do you think it's okay for your minister to say that he never knows anything about these things? There are two cases: either he has a big coat and too much work to do, or he should take responsibility if he knew about these things, and now he should answer here, and he should answer these points and take responsibility, not Mr Secretary of State. But I look forward to Mr. Secretary's reply. Thank you.
u2015-10-05-41	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy, please.
u2015-10-05-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congresswoman, His malicious insinuation that the minister doesn't know anything about the affairs of the Ministry, I must strongly reject it. Any matter which falls within the competence of the Minister is known to the Minister. The woman on the matters mentioned in her interpellation was informed separately, but for the sake of clarification, I will summarise what has been said earlier. And even though we say these cases over and over again, the Ministry will always be able to give the same answer, because it is the truth. For the manyth time, I would stress that the Minister for Rural Development has made a regular decision under the Public Finance Act to transfer within the heading of the budget of the portfolio the surplus expenditure incurred during the year, which is not related to the original purpose of the appropriations in question, with a view to achieving its intended purpose. Despite this, at the end of last year, the government repaid the total amount with a one-off transfer of HUF 642 million. Several tools, multi-tasking hands and county co-ordinator systems have been set up in this framework. With regard to solving the problem of hazardous waste storage in Balmazújváros-Lászlóháza, our wallet has acted with all available tools. However, the cost of disposal is borne by the owner of the waste; if the source of the pollution ceases without a successor, only the State will take over this task. The competent environmental inspectorate has taken all necessary measures in this case. Due to the measures, pollution did not leave the premises, and the inspectorate filed a police report at the competent police station. I just want to ask you, my dear Member, if socialist governments have ever taken such environmental measures, spent such money, made such an exemption, any such discharge. We know very well that all of these big issues relating to the environment do not fall within a period of government, a cross-border activity, and yet it is our government that has taken these measures. [[14.30]] Forgive me, my dear Member, but the attack on the person of Minister István Horváth is incomprehensible to me. István Horváth's work is recognised by the whole sector, which is expressed in numbers by the increase in pig numbers. I would like to stress that during the period in question, István Horváth carried out his mandate on the basis of a letter of commission, in social work, without any benefits. Szilárd Kiss was never ministerial commissioner. On behalf of former ministerial commissioner Szilárd Kiss, I would like to point out that his criminal case is not related to his work for the Ministry. The Ministry's investigation into TIG was concluded on 7 April 2015. Based on the report produced as a result of the investigation, the Ministry of Agriculture replaced the entire management of the company and recalled the members of the Supervisory Board. The Ministry of Agriculture has filed a complaint against an unknown unsub on suspicion of a particularly high financial disadvantageous misappropriation. In the case at hand, the BRFK is still investigating, so the determination of the level of liability is still ongoing. Finally, the Ministry of Agriculture is in constant contact with the supervisory commissioner appointed by the Hungarian National Bank, but the exact damage value is only Hungária Érték Zrt. may be determined after removal of the medicinal product. Dear Congresswoman, I hope I have been able to answer all the questions you raised in detail. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-43	I give the floor to Congressman László Kács for a rejoinder.
u2015-10-05-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Some things, however, I think, must be fixed here, but you could have done so then; there is a very serious key word for this, and this should also be applied in the Ministry, it is called press monitoring. It was your minister, Minister Fazekas, who said - before that was a malicious hint - that he did not know about the decision of the grass money, that he did not know about Szilárd Kiss's work and that he did not know about the appointment of Szilárd Kiss. You classified the work of István Horváth; we asked you about the appointment, Mr Secretary of State, you should have answered. Three things are expected of you in the field of farming: transparency, predictability, rationality, and you talked about 410 million forints instead of 1.6 billion forints until you appeared in the press. You didn't even know that, and I don't know what the bigger problem was: that you didn't know that, or if you knew that, you didn't know that. I don't accept the answer. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-05-45	Interpelling representatives did not accept the answer. I ask the House if it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the reply by 106 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ms Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. Will there be a comprehensive investigation into KEOP investments? It's an address. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2015-10-05-46	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I appeal to you, in my view, on a series of irregularities which have a significant social impact on the whole country, as the Secretary of State responsible for the use of EU funds. In recent years, the issue has been raised several times, which has become particularly acute, and this is the issue of channel investments from KEOP funds in the EU budget cycle 2007-2013. As is known, these developments are in the order of billions each, and to facilitate their implementation, the beneficiary municipalities have established water utility companies, which are primarily responsible for raising public self-esteem. The operation of hundreds of companies involving, where appropriate, thousands of real estate and thus with a large number of members, is particularly responsible, as is the financial and technical implementation of the investment. Dear Secretary of State, I am receiving signals from many municipalities in the country about the implementation of the above-mentioned proposals. Thus, even the formation of the company may have been irregular and, where appropriate, suspected. The financial planning of the investment mostly served the interests of the contractor rather than the population concerned, thus increasing the total. It is also interesting to think that regardless of the terrain conditions of the settlements or any technical parameters, but even the aid intensity of the tenders, they are asking for the same contribution from all members across the country for almost a penny. The members concerned have little insight into the operation of the water utility companies, despite the fact that the relevant legislation would otherwise allow them to do so. In many cases, when the construction is completed, it is found that the completed infrastructure is useless, and many residents are unable to connect to the network. Dear Secretary of State, I have heard the complaints listed above only in the last few days about Tápiószőlős, Simontornya, Látvány, Hajdúböszörmény, Free Accommodation or, for example, Nagykőrös, but I could provide examples from almost every county in the country. Interestingly, we are talking about settlements that have become government investments in the context of the Government's decision. It seems that abuse is taking place on the basis of a well-educated scenario, which harms the small people working hard in significant amounts, and that they are also putting Hungary's reputation at risk. Dear Secretary of State, I ask: will there be a comprehensive investigation into KEOP investments? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-47	The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Tasks and Powers, Mr János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-48	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and A total of HUF 474 billion was available for the implementation of waste water treatment and cleaning projects under the environmental and energy operational programme between 2007 and 2013, of which 240 were eligible for such investments. The improvements ensured compliance with EU and domestic legislation, increased the sewerage of the settlements, and allowed and allowed the biological cleaning of the collected waste water to be carried out as much as possible. The construction of waste water networks is one of the most expensive public utility investments implemented by beneficiaries with aid of up to 95% and self-strengthening. The own contribution can be secured through the water utility companies and the payment of interest contributions will cover the loan received by the beneficiaries. The level of interest contributions shall be decided by the water utility companies, taking into account the loan used and other financial possibilities. Applicants shall provide information on the existence of declarations of intention to join the channel to be implemented, the willingness to join, but these declarations shall not be submitted. The institutional system providing support is not related to the water utility companies, they are contracted with the municipality because of the self-financing. Declarations and documentation on the establishment of the water utility company are not part of the tender, the managing authority does not examine the conditions under which the company is set up, nor is it responsible for its operational and legal oversight. The criteria for the evaluation of proposals, the maximum rate for services, are set out in the invitation to tender and guidance in force. The beneficiary shall draw up a final report on the implementation of the resulting public works and shall submit a report on its operational parameters for a period of five years during the maintenance period. The continuous monitoring of the objectives of the grant agreement is thus ensured. If there is a problem with any project, for example, a resident cannot connect to the network, first the operating municipality or local government association should be asked for assistance. If this does not result in a result or a suspicion of irregularity, the managing authority may be contacted and, if a criminal offence is suspected, reported to the competent authority. The operation of the system is considered to comply with the legislation and the investigation of individual cases has so far been carried out in a professional and rapid manner. On this basis, the Ministry is not planning a comprehensive investigation into investments in waste water network construction under KEOP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2015-10-05-49	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2015-10-05-50	Dear Secretary of State, To tell you the truth, I was very hoping to get a meaningful answer to this point, because believe me, what I have said so far, and here I have presented to you, is a real social problem, it affects a lot of people, and just as you have said, the overall budget for this operational programme is very high. That is why we believe it is important to carry out a comprehensive and meaningful examination on this issue. And the fact that you mentioned that you are or are not part of the financial plan, such as the collection of self-force in the financial part of the proposal, please, in every detailed feasibility study plan there is a so-called cost-benefit analysis, which also includes self-reliance from the population and what it is used for. So I think that, yes, everything is connected to everything, not only the shortcomings in technical implementation, but also, for example, that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] What part of the money collected from the population is spent on. I can't accept the answer. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-51	The congresswoman therefore did not accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 32, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Automotive crisis in Hungary too? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-05-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to Minister Varga's statement last week, Hungary will not be affected by the diesel scandal. This is highly doubtful, given that 800,000 of the two million engines produced by Audi are diesel-powered, only the production of Audi can fall by 40 percent. Trust in diesel vehicles has basically been shaken, so the effects can be extended to all other manufacturers. In Hungary, automotive production accounts for 22 percent of industrial production. The LMP has repeatedly warned that it is more than a mistake to base the country's economy on the most crisis-sensitive sector. The Minister said that the government's main objective is to preserve the stability given by the automotive industry in Hungary. The automotive industry is not characterised by stability: a scandal can turn the driving sector into a crisis sector, a developing region into a crisis region in seconds. The question now is what the government is doing to reduce the expected negative effects. Export and GDP declines can be covered, resulting in redundancies and the bankruptcy of a multitude of suppliers. Audi Hungaria Motor Kft. has received 48 billion forints of public money in recent years for job creation, which is 25 million forints per job. The government also concluded a strategic partnership agreement with the company. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the agreements about preserving jobs, sharing burdens in situations of crisis. It is also regrettable that they will not launch an investigation into whether human health protection and environmental protection rules have been respected. If they do not start, we will not know to what extent they have been violated and what measures should be taken. This, given the size of the Hungarian market, does not help car manufacturers, but fundamentally undermines confidence in the impartial functioning of public authorities and the enforcement of the law of public bodies. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State whether in exchange for the tax relief of HUF 48 billion and other subsidies, Audi has undertaken to guarantee employment. If not, why didn't the government conclude such conditions? Why do strategic partnership agreements not include guarantees for employment? And finally, what will the government do to counter the expected crisis in Győr and other vulnerable regions? Does the government change the dangerous support policy that unilaterally makes the Hungarian economy dependent on car manufacturing? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2015-10-05-53	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your question, regarding your interpellation, is indeed some of the things I see need to be clarified with you, first of all, what is the essence of the strategic partnership. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So this is not a contract, not an agreement where the parties commit themselves. This is basically a declaration of intent signed by the government and the strategic partner enterprise, the main point of which is that the partner undertakes to further expand its business, create new jobs, create new investments in Hungary; he undertakes to bring research and development and innovation to Hungary, but also to develop in the field of vocational training, and to build closer links with the domestic supplier industry. So this is not a legal formula, there is no regulation here, there is no requirement, and there is no consequence of this declaration of intent. In fact, this is an expression of cooperation between the two parties. The other issue, which also needs to be clarified, is development tax relief. The development tax relief is based on legislation and operates on the same conditions for all companies operating in Hungary. This means that under the legislation, the company must undertake to invest, develop and, of course, create jobs. Here the minimum number of people in the workplace is 150, so those who undertake this must expand their business by at least 150 people. The third form of support is the individual government decision, which can also be obtained by the undertaking under strict conditions. There is a wage increase for a longer period, three years in the case of smaller enterprises and five years in the case of larger enterprises. As far as the situation in Hungary is concerned with the diesel scandal, I think that car manufacturing really has a heavy weight in the national economy, as it accounts for 13 percent of domestic exports, 22 percent of industrial production and 145 thousand people. The Audi Group in Győr plays a particularly important role, since Hungary's largest exporter provides 9.3 percent of Hungary's exports. Today, there is no way to say how the scandal has affected the Hungarian company in relation to the Volkswagen group. One thing is certain: the government is interested in ensuring that the company group settles the situation as soon as possible, its obligations, the fines imposed, and that its operation is affected as little as possible. For this to happen and for the Hungarian people's jobs to remain, Hungarian companies operate properly, the government provides all possible support, legal and legal support to the group of companies, because it is in our interest that the company group operating in Hungary can continue its activities in a similar volume as at present. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-55	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Welcome, fellow Members. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-05-56	I can't accept the answer. I'll start with the strategic agreement. The Secretary of State said and clouded that this was a declaration of intent. It's quite sad, by the way, that the government, against a declaration of intent, is giving companies, multinationals, massive billions. Perhaps this should not be done, and it should be considered that if they receive tax incentives and subsidies, they should be subject to conditions that can then be called upon to account. The development tax relief. To do this, I would like to bring the data that today multinational companies receive 200 billion subsidies, while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises receive one billion forints; the difference is two hundred times the difference. In many cases, LMP has already said that economic policy cannot be based on this and that small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported. And for the diesel scandal, the government should start preparing for it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How to prevent it, and not with massive billions. Thank you. [[14.50]]
u2015-10-05-57	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Alpár Gyopáros, a representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Will the European Union really force the quota-based reception of refugees? It's an address. Mr Alpár Gyopáros has the floor.
u2015-10-05-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Hungary is under unprecedented migratory pressure. The number of illegal border crossings has increased dramatically in recent months, and today's data show that the 312 000th immigrant has also crossed Hungary's borders. The Fidesz government confirms its measures that while at the Serbian border on 14 September more than 9,000 illegal border crossings had to be dealt with, two days later this number fell to 266. It has been proven that it is the Fidesz government that pursues a clear, decisive immigration policy, as the MSZP called immigration a pseudo-problem even in July, according to Jobbik's President Gábor Vona, Islam is the last protective bulwark of humanity and, according to the Democratic Coalition, immigration is only a government rubber bone. The government has conducted a successful national consultation in which more than 1 million people returned the questionnaire. In accordance with the will of the Hungarian people, new laws have been adopted, a temporary technical border closure has been built at the Hungarian-Serbian border, and 4300 police troops are already helping the work of police troops, as well as illegal crossing of the border, damage to the border lock and smuggling of people are considered criminal offences, or more severely, the perpetrators can expect imprisonment or expulsion. The European Left, which supports immigration, is largely responsible for the situation. If it were up to them, any number of people and anyone could enter the country and Europe. As a result of the European Union's failed immigration policy, millions or even tens of millions of immigrants from countries that are now even remotely poorer can move towards Europe in an avalanche style. We must say that all European politicians who, with the hope of a better life, encourage immigrants to leave everything behind and take the path to Europe, risking their lives and their children's lives. To address the immigration situation, the EU Council of Home Ministers voted in favour of an extraordinary operation that will transfer 120,000 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece to other Member States. Although Hungary voted against in addition to Romania, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, the proposal passed by a qualified majority of the votes. Despite volunteering, if a Member State were reluctant to accept asylum seekers intended for it, it could be held accountable in infringement proceedings. The decision raises several problems. On what basis do we decide who is entitled to international protection, who of the asylum seekers really is a refugee? The important question is whether and how refugees who wish to settle down in other EU Member States, not in Hungary, are obliged to stay. How do we decide who is obliged to stay in which EU Member State, breaking up families and friendships? If someone wants to go to Germany, because their relatives are there, they will not settle in Hungary. This is confirmed by the fact that the quota system for the distribution of refugees is against the interests of all EU Member States. Dear Minister, I ask whether the European Union can really force us to have a refugee quota rejected by Hungary and whether the new measure will have an impact on the successful refugee policy of the Hungarian government. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-59	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-10-05-60	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have had the opportunity, before the agenda, to dwell on the European Union's decision on compulsory quotas for a few reasons. Allow me to repeat some of this in view of the government's position. Firstly, we considered the debate on the compulsory quota to be harmful because it took time to find possible solutions, created political tension between Member States, and it would be about the relocation of 120 thousand immigrants, while only over 120 thousand people arrived in the European Union during the debate. We do not see any sense in the debate on mandatory quotas and, in general, any kind of quota until the European Union can regain control of its own borders. It is clear that Greece is not able to defend its own borders in the current circumstances. Let us add, for the sake of fairness, that this is not a criticism of Greece, because the protection of hundreds or thousands of kilometres of sea borders and the protection of islands are obviously an extremely complicated task, but it can also be solved. It is therefore proposed that a European Union force be created in order to ensure that the protection of the Greek external border is resolved. There, for example, we would support the compulsory quota to create such a force with the contributions of the EU Member States. A simple list of how many policemen, how many border guards, how many soldiers, how many ships, how many planes, how many helicopters are needed to secure the external border of Greece should be drawn up. We believe that there should be mandatory contributions from Member States to the creation of such a force. As a second point, I think that Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon should be honoured and respected for their disproportionate burden so far in dealing with unstable situations in the Middle East and North Africa. Millions of people are in these three countries. I think that the right policy is not to send an invitation under the pseudonym of quota to immigrants, but to help refugees stay as close to their homes as possible until the armed conflict for their escape is over. We therefore believe that we should help refugees to receive adequate care in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. That is why we have proposed that the European Union take over the funding of refugee camps in these countries, and that, if new refugee camps are needed, we should also finance them. With regard to the quota, honourable Member, I think that the inexecutable decision that the Council of Home Ministers has taken, given that there is no agreement yet on where the hotspots on which the resettlement is based are being created; it is unenforceable because there is no solution for secondary migration; and, thirdly, it is unenforceable because if we do nothing to protect the border, then there will be an amazing pressure in the European Union that will be measured, not in hundreds of thousands, but in millions. Finally, I would like to inform the honourable Member and Parliament that he has placed the item on the agenda of the Government's meeting on Wednesday on measures relating to compulsory quotas, when the Government will decide how the European Union can act on such an unsustainable and unenforceable decision, which is also an invitation to immigrants and smugglers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-61	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-10-05-62	Thank you, Mr. President. According to each one's temper, he read it sadly or angryly, reading the words of President Juncker, President of the European Commission, in the middle of September, that it is time for us to start developing a truly European migration policy. Mr. President said that in mid-September. We do not need to be a political genius to know that this issue has been stressing European public opinion, national security and so on for months. At the same time, we are still pleased that the Commission will finally put on the agenda but will continue to have open questions about the list of safe countries of origin, about return measures and the incentive system, about encouraging internal mobility, or about how the distribution of 120 thousand illegal immigrants will be made, how it will be done, so that we know that only 312 thousand people have come to the European Union through Hungary to this day. The European Commission should be put under pressure from an intergovernmental and intergovernmental authority so that an effective response can be obtained as soon as possible. Of course, I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Everything is connected! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The state of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County hospitals has deteriorated a lot over the past few years. Despite the hospital developments announced before the major press release, the physical conditions, buildings and public utilities of hospitals have not improved. The current state of the wards sometimes hinders basic care. According to the hospital's written report, floor and wall coverings are outdated, baths, toilets and other social facilities are inhabited and their number is insufficient. [[15.00]] The internal cold and hot water and sewage system has become obsolete, the medical gas network needs to be renovated, the technical condition of the lifts is inadequate. The instrument exchange of the institution would require HUF 1.5 billion in order to meet the expected professional needs with instruments of the age level, ensuring continuous patient care. It is a long-standing, traditional institution with the confidence of the population, which won the title of the hospital of the year in 2007 and also became a national quality award in the same year. Despite all the difficulties, its functioning is characterised by an increase in patient traffic and high-quality care in some areas. However, ensuring high-quality patient care is important not only for the population living in the county, but also for the Transcarpathian Hungarians using an increasing number of healthcare services in Hungary. Due to the state of the Ukrainian health institutions and the lack of service, Hungarian patients in Transcarpathia used a large number of Hungarian healthcare services even before the outbreak of the armed conflict. After the conflict, this figure increased significantly. The Hungarians in the Transcarpathia affected by war, military enlisting, inflation above 50 percent and emigration must also face the gas price increase of more than 400 percent. I believe that the Hungarian Government must take responsibility and play a role for the future of this community, take decisive steps and help to overcome the challenges and difficulties. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what they intend to do to develop the Hungarian health institutions, which are used in large numbers across the border, so that the Hungarian patients in Transcarpathia, in particular the hospitals in Városnámény, Fehérgyarmat, but also the other health institutions in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, are concerned. Have you considered the possibility that the Hungarian government could assume the obligation to pay contributions in what form and for which community beyond the border in need? Finally, with Hungarian government assistance planned in Transylvania, what assistance can the government offer to the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right. A rare applause in the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-05-65	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-66	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, You may already know this, because we have said it several times in Parliament, Congressman, which concerns the first half of your interpellation, the state of health. In recent years we have paid 500 billion forints and paid for health improvements. Most of this, HUF 322 billion for hospital infrastructure development, mainly for construction, renovation, modernisation of building parts, and HUF 104 billion for various instruments. Congressman said that's not enough. Congressman, when was there a time in Hungary when, in a government period, more than that amount was spent on hospital infrastructure, instruments, machinery or equipment? You have to think for a very long time, because you will not find such an era, there has never been a period under any government where 500 billion forints of this kind of construction, renovations and upgrades have been put into health care. There are obviously many hospitals in the countryside, even in Budapest, where there is something to improve the conditions, where there are instruments that can be obtained. But if you show me from the last decades, from the 25 years or from the 60 or 70 years, when Hungary could have spent more money on health care, you will win a bet with me and I will give you a package of cottage cheese bars or anything else. But I don't think I'm gonna have to buy that package of cottage cheese because you're not gonna find a time like this. Of course, these funds arrived in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, with a total of HUF 27 billion. County hospitals received HUF 23 billion, along with university teaching hospitals, for infrastructure development, to remedy precisely the problems that the Member has listed. If I only look at the hospital that might be closest to you in Upper Szabolcs, it is 4 billion forints of modernisation and development, the source that this one institution has received. There is modernisation within the care system, emergency department development, equipment expansion, modernisation of IT equipment systems, development of oncological diagnostic tools, but there is support for structural change, support for rehabilitation benefits, support for cross-border cooperation, installation of solar system from public funds to support or human resources development. In the next development period, these must, of course, be continued, with two main directions that the government has set out, to turn the human resource situation in a positive direction, as well as the basic care and protective service, i.e. to strengthen prevention in this region, as well as patient road management. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will also be affected by the nursing home renovation program that I believe is also urgently needed. That's part of your speech. The second is the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians. This is a question I'm glad the MSZP finally recognized and found. It would have been nice to have been treated this way 10-15 years ago, and not in the previous negative way, which caused a lot of pain and suffering and psychological damage to many Hungarians beyond the borders. In the case of Transcarpathian Hungarians, you see, honourable Member, this is why, among other things, the possibility of dual citizenship is important, as it also creates the possibility of intervention and action in public law. At the moment, as required, the government adopted additional measures for HUF 80 million in addition to the standard social security transfer procedure beyond the regulation on the promotion of healthcare in Hungary for Hungarians across borders, in view of various social situations, based on the income situation of the district offices. Trucks started in which there were medicines, and the charity council also met last Tuesday, and the children of Transcarpathia were fully taken over by the Hungarian government, and the Hungarian teachers of Transcarpathia received a payment supplement. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2015-10-05-67	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would ask you not to be frivolous with this question, which I would like to bring before this House. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] And I would ask my fellow Members with fidesz not to be indignant. Secretary of State, we don't have to deal with this problem with a package of sticks between us, because I don't think the problem is between us. You've listed numbers, and I'll give you a number that you know very well, by the way, because it belongs to your wallet. In recent years, about HUF 500 billion has been withdrawn from health care operations. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How do you know that?]] What I asked you to speak for and interpelled was exactly the question that I faced during our meeting with the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, which was the essence of which they asked us, asked us if we would improve the situation of the health institutions on the border in some way, because they would like to use health services in bulk there. Therefore, Mr State Secretary, I will not accept your answer, because you did not reply to me, but to the roughly 150,000 Hungarians who live in the Transcarpathian region. Thank you very much. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame. A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-05-69	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. On the occasion of World Animal Day. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2015-10-05-70	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The World Animal Day is 4 October, so it is worth a thorough review of the state of animal protection and the adequacy of the related legislation. Consider what we can do to help people in the environment or in the life of wildlife. Why is that important? Because our land is in a changing, perhaps decaying state, the climate is changing, the seasons are not showing their usual face, which makes it difficult for humans and animals to get their lives, food and drinking water. We also need to see that many of our fellow humans are unable to comprehend that God has entrusted us with the care of Earth's wildlife. A serious crime is committed by those who keep their pets in inhumane conditions, conduct dog fights, or hunt wild animals in the face. They deserve to be punished for serious crimes. The animal protection law of our country, the law on the protection and welfare of animals, states that animals are living beings capable of feeling, suffering and being happy, their respect, their well-being is the moral duty of all humans. The Btk. for animal torture, for the organisation of illicit animal fighting, you will be sentenced to 2-3 years in prison. I think the legal background is appropriate, but there is no proper body to report cases. In my experience, the police can't watch the animals, they're only acting on a citizen's report. There is therefore a need for organisations to take action to protect animals. [[15.10]] Private animal police and foundations operate in the West. If the issue of animal police is utopia in the present circumstances in Hungary, but we should consider it in any way, I think for everyone. Jobbik considers it important to raise our children to be responsible for livestock farming in school age, which is particularly important for young people today, because unfortunately, many of them are socializing without animals in their surroundings. We urge them to include responsible livestock farming in the school training system. We also consider it important to allocate the limited tasks between the state, municipalities and the Veterinary Chamber and to develop a programme for the protection of wild animals that harmonises with the values of traditional hunting. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, what are the results of the strict animal protection laws? How do authorities get to the perpetrators of the crime at the moment? What steps have been taken to improve reconnaissance so far? What measures have been taken to prevent this? In response to my speech in May, Mr Zsigó indicated that a thousand animals in shelter will be neutered. According to my information, this hasn't happened to this day, has it? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-71	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary Secretary Róbert Zsigó responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Animal protection issues are extremely important to the farming government, so we are doing everything we can to ensure the well-being of the animals living in Hungary. In addition to the various public and municipal institutions, civil animal protection organisations are also partners in this work. It is important to know that the harm to animals is generally not the result of intentional abuse, but rather of inadequate care, often caused by animal indiscretion, and therefore the importance of prevention in relation to animal welfare problems cannot be stressed enough. I agree with the Member that it is important to educate children to keep animals responsible, because addressing young generations, shaping their attitudes, and disseminating knowledge on a professional basis are crucial to the establishment of responsible animal farming. Ladies and gentlemen, Proper treatment of animals is primarily the responsibility of the farmer, which is why the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Food Chain Safety Office consider it particularly important to develop attitudes in this area, which we wish to achieve by launching, among other things, various programmes. These include the "Free" program, including the "Visitor-partner" project to help train guide dogs. It is also intended to prevent the suffering of animals by the requirement to apply animal welfare responsibility in Hungary from 2013 onwards, in order to prevent EU legislation, in large numbers of livestock farms. It is his responsibility to monitor and facilitate compliance with animal welfare legislation defining animal housing conditions and to provide instructions and guidance on the welfare of animals by persons responsible for the care and supervision of animals, and to provide annual training to workers in the livestock holding. The National Food Chain Safety Office is responsible for the training of animal welfare officers, so far 4288 people have successfully completed the training. In many cases, the intensive keeping of livestock carries an increased risk of animal welfare, which means that the animal protection authority is constantly monitoring livestock holdings, taking the necessary measures in case of problems, imposing, where appropriate, a animal protection penalty or even confiscating the animals. Honourable Congressman, In addition to the introduction of a mandatory unique marking and registration of dogs in 2013, it is considered to be of paramount importance to spay animals living in shelters in order to keep stray populations of dogs and cats and to prevent unwanted reproductions. This is why in 2013 we launched the program for breeding dogs at shelter, which aims to increase the chance of animals being adopted and to encourage responsible livestock farming. In response to your question on the programme, I would like to inform the Member that, yes, you are mistaken, within the framework of the programme launched two years ago on World Animal Day, 914 dogs were neutered out of the target thousand. In view of the positive experience, discussions will continue as far as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. Please, Congressman, accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-05-73	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-74	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, If I could, I would very much like to accept the Secretary of State's reply, but I cannot accept it because in words these things always work well with regard to animal protection, but there are shortcomings in actions. The same is happening here, as in many other areas of life at the moment, that the civil sphere must solve a problem that, by the way, I think is important to all Hungarian citizens. Therefore, for example, Jobbik Hungary's Youth School will launch a national campaign to promote animal protection and promote responsible animal farming, and I would like to tell Mr State Secretary that the neutering of 900 dogs will not solve the problem. Here the problem would be solved if the Ministry of Agriculture announced a national spaying operation, and as in Western Europe, the mass of stray animals living in teams would cease on the streets. Unfortunately, I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-75	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 31 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Are we going to daycare? It's an address. It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2015-10-05-76	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This autumn, I was able to gain personal experience about nursery schooling, the state of day care, and the conscientious, competent work of daycare workers and caregivers. When my son asked me one morning after two weeks when we were going to daycare, I knew that it wasn't just my experience that was positive. Dear Secretary of State, The 2016 budget will once again be a budget for families. The family support system established over the last five years can be called successful and effective. This is confirmed by the continuous increase in birth numbers. CHAPTER XXI The major challenge of Hungary in the 20th century is to reverse the decline in birth rates and to achieve a sustainable demographic turnaround. Perhaps we are on the right track in this matter as well. We share this responsibility, since state aid does not lead to growth in total. Many problems ring before having children, and young people today feel that it is enough to just think about reconciliation between work and private life. Next year, in 2016 the government will spend almost 40 percent more on family support than in 2010, which represents a HUF 1000 billion surplus for parents raising children in the last five years as a whole. Work-based family support has increased significantly, the number of family tax benefits has increased, and from January this year, they will be entitled to a tax benefit for newlyweds. Mothers returning to work from January 2016 can apply for the ged extra from the age of six months of their child, which was only possible after the age of one year. Hungarian reforms therefore also work in the area of family support. According to statistics, unfortunately, not enough, but birth rates have also started to increase. With the extra seed, the mothers can go back to work. It's nice and good, but during your time at work, someone has to take care of the children. In addition to many other things, care requires two things: a nursery and balanced, competent daycare workers. In connection with this latter issue, we can see that the government intends to present two legislative proposals at the autumn session, which is also related to the working conditions of daycare workers. [[15.20]] On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the number of cradle seats has changed over the past period and what new measures would support the work of daycare workers and their appreciation. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-77	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-05-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Family policy is also an area where it is easy to destroy, but it is even more difficult to build, as we remember the Bokros package or the measures taken by the MSZP-SZDSZ government between 2002 and 2004, when in a few months or a few years they were able to throw a piece of wood into the spokes of a well-functioning system and thus steer demographic processes in a negative direction. At the same time, in order to reverse these and reduce the rate of population loss, which we have successfully done on the basis of the figures of the last year and a half, we need a great deal of action. There is no miracle weapon in the area of family policy, there is no measure that clearly reverses these negative trends in itself, but that attention should be paid to the beneficial position of families in the tax system, or at least to the equalisation of their social and financial disadvantages; attention should be paid to the labour market; attention should be paid to the day care of children; attention should be paid to the issue of maternity leave in the field of transport. And I could give you a number of other examples, which, as a whole, can give you the opportunity to really, young Hungarians to start thinking as soon as possible and in more families as possible. This family-friendly turnaround in our legislation took place in 2010, we have a family-friendly fundamental law, the Fundamental Law lays down the basic rules. The stability, physical and mental health of families, women's employment, childbearing and reconciliation of work are now served by far more legislation than before. On this issue, it is important that if someone is to have children and they want the mother to get back to work as soon as possible, then there are two things that need to be done: obviously, on the one hand, to keep her job, she can go back there, on the other hand, so that the child can be placed during the day. That is why it was important to start the nursery development program. From 2010 until the beginning of this year, if you look at the number of places where cradle was created, where it wasn't, or how many places it was renovated or extended, you can see that 203 organizations have created 6 thousand out of 28 billion forints, or 6 thousand new spaces in cradles and 4900 existing seats. Overall, if you look at the last five years, you have added 6288 to the number of nursery seats. In both kindergarten and kindergarten construction, this government has been far behind the previous periods, with speeds of one and a half and three, with which the Orbán government is building nurserys and kindergartens compared to the previous period. Compared to the 2010 level, we increased the number of cradle seats by 20 percent in four years, and our goal is to increase this number to 60,000 by 2018. In addition, with the job protection action plan, we were able to help women return to work, thereby improving the situation of women in the labour market. That's why women's employment has made 25-year records in recent months. You also pointed out that the financial value of daycare workers is important, and therefore they can feel more secure, because by adopting the 2016 budget, Parliament has already provided funding for the extension of the pedagogical career in the budget for small children in nursery schools who have a pedagogical education. Therefore, children in kindergarten with a higher education degree will receive their increased salary on the basis of the pedagogical career as of 1 January 2016. I trust that this will also increase the kind of security that families may feel when they give their children to daycare. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-79	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-10-05-80	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. We, the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, want to build a society that focuses on work and families. This requires the expansion of services related to the provision of young children and further recognition of the work of daycare workers. If government proposals are put on the Parliament's table in this regard, we will certainly support them. I therefore thank you for your information and accept your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-81	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Szabolcs, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.Thanks to the measures of the past period, the title of foreign exchange loan is further reduced. Congressman Attila Szabolcs has the floor.
u2015-10-05-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, One of the most serious challenges in recent years has been the settlement of the situation of foreign exchange credentials imposed on Hungarians by governments before 2010. We now have papers from the highest judicial forum, the Mansion, that banks behaved unfairly when the interest rates and other conditions of foreign exchange loans were established. [[Dr. István Józsa's intervention.]] Among the victims there were thousands of Hungarian families, so their help became a national interest. After years of legislative process, it seems that the situation of most of them has been resolved in a satisfactory manner. Since the change of government in 2010, a series of measures have protected troubled foreign exchange lenders; the end-payment, the exchange rate barrier, the bank settlement after the National Asset Manager and the forinting of housing loans have provided substantial help to more than half a million Hungarians, as now there are significantly lower instalments to be paid. So the Hungarian families won. May I remind you that no one had previously thought that we were able to force the banks to this extent to look at the interests of the Hungarian people. These benches also include representatives who took sides with the banks. We can recall that at the turn of the government in 2010, some 500,000 families were threatened by the loss of their homes. Despite the government's efforts, foreign exchange-based car and personal loans remain. In recent years, voters have received a number of letters saying that if the payments increase to this extent, the authentic one will lose his car. At this point, I would like to remove the misconception that a car is a luxury item. No, this House, the car - especially in the countryside - is an essential work tool, and we all know to what extent it makes life easier for a family when it has a car. So now we also have to settle the situation of these people and families. For this reason, the National Assembly decided in recent weeks on the proposal of the Fidesz-KDNP on the forinting of car and personal loans, so Hungary was the first to say a final goodbye to foreign exchange loans in our region, in addition to the fact that the neighbouring countries have already seen the treatment of the foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary as a model. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask for your answer on how the abolition of foreign currency-based loans will help society to thrive and the economy to grow. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-83	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have pointed out, indeed, the problem of foreign exchange lenders, which has characterised recent years, has led not only to an economic but also to a real social problem. In 2006 the stock of foreign currency-based mortgage loans from the banking system was only HUF 1600 billion, which, unfortunately, was already 2,700 billion a year later, increased by more than HUF 1000 billion, and by 2009 it had already exceeded HUF 5 thousand billion. Unfortunately, the socialist government at the time did not do anything to prevent people from getting into this immensely risky borrowing, and, in fact, encouraged the Hungarian people, the families, to take on this form of credit. [[15.30]] The Fidesz government has faced this problem and has done everything in its power between 2010 and 14 to bring these families out of the problem of foreign exchange credit. As you have listed, the institution of the exchange rate barrier, the announcement of end-payments, the creation of the National Asset Manager have solved some of the problems, but the solution to the whole problem has become the release of foreign currency loans and the exchange of forints. The government managed to find a solution in which it received international recognition, and several countries took over the Hungarian model, the Hungarian example, recognising the work and decisions of our country and the government, which led to the final solution. It is true that foreign currency-based mortgage loans were issued in early 2015 worth HUF 3600 billion; in view of its experience, this month the Parliament also adopted the law on the forinting of motor vehicles and personal loans. This means another HUF 305 billion for these people. There are 229 thousand living contracts, but this law also applies to foreign currency-based personal and car loans that have already been cancelled. The conversion will be favourable, since it is even more favourable than the exchange rate of 19 August 2015, which will cost the State and the banks HUF 31 billion, this cost will be divided by half and half. The question is, of course, what does this really mean for the Hungarian economy and for Hungarian families. For Hungarian families, it means security, predictability, and also a slight reduction in the foreign exchange loan repayment, depending on the loan of the client concerned. It is also a security for the country, since our foreign exchange exposure is significantly reduced, in essence it will cease on this issue, it will also mean a secure operation for the banks in the future, and it will also have a positive impact on the Hungarian economy. I think we're done with the foreign exchange-credit nightmare. I would like to thank the Parliament for its votes in favour of the laws, which have finally closed the foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-85	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-86	I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. As we have heard, this series of measures is a significant relief for citizens who have taken foreign exchange-based loans for such purposes. Now, for motor vehicle loans, this means a debt relief of nearly HUF 31 per Swiss franc. Of course, all of this makes a significant contribution to better, better conditions and better economic conditions for Hungarian citizens to live and thrive with the measures and benefits of family policy. Thank you very much for the answer and, of course, I accept it. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Why is this natural? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-87	I thank you, Congressman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:33 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We will continue our work with immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what are they doing to ensure that the members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund can finally obtain their savings? It's an address. Minister L. Simon László has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Márta Demeter: I accept.]] Yeah. [[Noise, several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Before I give the floor, Madam President, I would like to ask with respect my fellow Members, if they wish to leave this Chamber in order to perform an urgent public task, they should do so quietly. Thank you. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-05-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well-known, the savings of the Honvéd Health Fund of HUF 1.8 billion were stuck at the DRB Bank owned by the owners of the Buda-Cash Broker House. From the answers to our previous questions, it is clear that the money from the health bank has been wiped out by the bankruptcy of Buda-Cash. The members of the health fund may receive their money only in the distant future, at the end of the winding-up procedure, provided that they have something to pay for it at all. This also concerns the payment of over 27,000 soldiers, law enforcement and national security workers at the health bank. The customers of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund did not exchange stock, but chose the form of savings supported by the government, and set aside their money specifically to preserve their health. If, on a proposal from the government, the Parliament has adopted a separate law to compensate investors in Quaestor bonds, it cannot stand by and watch the savings of thousands of employees of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Information Office set aside for health preservation purposes, the people who serve every day to protect the lives and assets of Hungarian citizens. The minimum value of this service is that the Hungarian State will assist them in such a situation. For this reason, the Defence and Police Committee has submitted an amending proposal to the budget, which, by adopting it, would have allowed the customers of the Honvéd Health Fund to have access to their savings. However, this amendment was not supported by the Government and was voted down by the Fidesz majority at the Committee on Budgets. I am therefore asking Mr State Secretary whether the government is taking an initiative in order to ensure that, like the Quaestor victims, the Hungarian Defence Forces, law enforcement agencies and national security workers have access to their savings for health purposes. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-10-05-89	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State L. Simon László. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-90	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, I must say, Congresswoman, that there is no debate between us in the description of the problem, in the sightseeing. You and other fellow Members have already addressed the Minister with such a question, and it was clear from the answers that the problem is fundamentally similar, and there is no difference of opinion between us that there has been a very serious loss here for many Hungarian citizens who have done valuable work. However, the solution is not primarily in the hands of the government. In any case, let me add some information to what you said, Congresswoman, because many of the employees of the Information Office did manage your account at the Honvéd Health Fund, along with many secret service workers, soldiers and policemen acted in good faith when they did not trust their money to a brokerage house, they did not want to risk their savings, but paid their voluntary health insurance contributions. It is not their fault either, of course, that those who were entrusted with their money, who were entrusted with managing their money, were aware of it, and without their consent, they made a risky decision, the consequences of which were also mentioned by the woman who had just been representing it. It is very important to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no correlation between the fact that secret service workers, soldiers and police officers have deposited their money at the Honvéd Health Fund and their workplace, i.e. between their jobs, because they did not have such an obligation. Their decision was made independently, and they were in no way influenced by the government or their employer. That is why it is not at the government, and it is not here at the moment, honourable Member. As you know, under the law adopted in 2013, the insurance provided by the National Deposit Insurance Fund does not cover the deposits of the insurance undertaking, the voluntary insurance fund and the private pension fund, including the deposits of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund. I'll continue in one minute if Mr. President takes the floor from me. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-05-92	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, I asked the Prime Minister's Office precisely because both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior have answered my question in a way that clearly excluded the possibility of any settlement of the situation. The Prime Minister's Office was the only one who gave an answer to investigate how the situation could be resolved. I thought that was a reason for hope. [[15.40]] What you said was that they had no obligation to hold deposits at the Honvéd Health Bank, I understand, I understand, but it is also a fact that the cafetheria was paid by the ministries. I think, if the ministries considered this situation and this institution so safe, and as you know, many of the soldiers, policemen and secret service workers have also claimed a tax refund, so everyone has assumed that this thing is so stable that it can work. I see that where there is political will, Mr. Secretary of State, you can resolve the situation. These are not hundreds of billions, as in the case of Quaestor, but 1.8 billion, which is a very, very small amount in terms of budget, but these people, who had their savings and got stuck in there, can be a large sum. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As I understand it, this may be one of your last speeches in this capacity, I would like to ask you to respond honestly and in a forward-looking manner. Thank you.
u2015-10-05-93	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-05-94	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, the fact that government employees have also deposited their money at the Honvéd Health Fund is not in any way related to the fact that they are state employees, nor is it related to the risky investments that the Honvéd Health Insurance Managers have invested their money in. However, the above-mentioned legislative change I referred to, namely the 2013 Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises, at the time when this was adopted in Parliament, was in line with the EU directives on deposit guarantee schemes, honourable Member. That's why we couldn't expand beyond that. However, it is true that Minister has also indicated that we are looking further at the possibility of helping victims. In the case of Buda-Cash, no specific law was adopted, as in the case of Quaestor. We didn't consider the amendment to the Defense Committee fortunate. This is why the government does not want to give up on law enforcement workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But some solution will be worth finding in future with the opposition. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-05-95	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-10-05-96	Thank you very much. Then I'll accept it if the President restores my watch at the start. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-97	Congressman, the chair of the meeting shall ensure that the interests of the Member are not harmed. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Guard! Defiance.]] Now please reset the clock again. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-98	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2012, the National Health Round Table met again for the first time, which was set up within the framework of the Hungarian Medical Association, at his call, and was attended by organizations such as the Hungarian Pharmacy Association, the Hospital Association, patient organizations, the Health Professional Association and the sectoral trade unions. So it's safe to say that the cream of the profession was involved. However, among these parliamentary parties, Jobbik was also represented by the MSZP, and the government was represented for a short time by the health government. The round table essentially wanted to identify the problems that exist in the current health system. This has been identified in three areas, such as the low-critic, very problematic lack of human resources, which is reflected on the one hand in wages and unfair circumstances, the general underfunding, which is the result of the change in hospital financing fees and the increasing debt of health institutions, as well as the ageless laws that should be changed in any case. He even raised the question whether it is actually constitutional at present, the health care that we have. At the meeting, expectations were also expressed, such as the lack of gratuity, and this is the most important criticism - that public expenditure should be increased to 6.5 percent of GDP, i.e. the health sector must have 550 billion and 600 billion extra expenditure each year in order to maintain this problem at all levels, and the health sector itself must be able to take some step forward from its current situation. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement has fully accepted and supported the proposal for a decision and the decision created by the National Health Round Table and presented to the government. But we didn't have time and opportunity to listen to the government's opinion. The government can now say that the Secretary of State can now tell us what the Secretary of State, the Government, thinks about these problems. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and how it intends to resolve the demands made by the National Health Round Table. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-05-99	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The two-minute answer is not the genre where Hungarian health care problems can be solved. I don't think anyone really believes that this complex issue, which Hungary has been rolling in front of for decades, can be resolved in two minutes. But that is precisely why the National Health Round Table and many other consultative forums are convened, in which the government was represented at a high level on 1 October, precisely in order to discuss these issues, the government should also report on its plans or results, as we have achieved great success over the past 4-5 years. However, it is clear that doctors, nurses, or experts themselves are able to assess the question that they consider to be more important, which one is next, after the first questions have been resolved. One of the most pressing problems with the functioning of hospitals is the settlement of debts. At the beginning of this year, it was worth HUF 60 billion. Finally, the hospital leaders were able to refocus their attention on the everyday work of the hospital, the healing of the sick, and not on the various chess and tactics of each expired bill. It is also important that what has already been said today and again is that there has been an unprecedented amount of development money in health care worth HUF 500 billion. You can say that perhaps in the 1880s and 90s there was a similar level when these red brick pavilion hospitals were built, but since the Markusovszky era it has been quite a long time. At the same time, it is an important achievement if I look only at the previous semester: do you know how much the number of patients on the waiting lists has decreased in the last six months? The number of people on the waiting list decreased by 15-20 percent, by 7,000, and this is not because there was some sort of unexpected event, but because the government transferred additional resources to this. That we gave 6 billion forints at the end of the year, at the beginning of the year, to reduce waiting lists, this is the result of this, for example, the 15-20 percent reduction in the waiting list, which I think any government could be proud of in six months. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What the Secretary of State has just said is in stark contrast with the findings of the National Health Round Table. It was not for nothing called a public cry, or in its title the term "public cry" is also used by the serious health gnome, which formulated this. It is no accident that these many organisations have expressed their dissatisfaction, which do not see the same rosy and so positive result that the Secretary of State has just referred to. In relation to how much EU state development has been, you can say that it has never been seen, but - I add - it will never be seen, because we also know that much less is being spent on health development, for example, in the next EU development cycle. This has also been said as a criticism that there will be fewer resources than the previous one. Secretary of State, there are conditions here, and the government is trying to ignore claims that are the demands of the entire sector. I suggest you hear this public cry, receive it and implement it, because so many people, so many organizations in health care, can't be wrong. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The government is wrong if you don't take these problems seriously. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-05-103	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State has the right to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-104	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Do not give me the impression, honourable Member, that the government is not in dialogue with organisations representing doctors, chambers or health workers' organisations. We strive to negotiate with everyone, precisely so that we can make the best use of and expand the money we have. Health care obviously wants more resources, and I think this is not only in Hungary, but everywhere in the world, there is a need for newer and more resources in health care. The very reason why the government's work over the past five years is innovating is because, for example, through the introduction of a chip tax, public revenue from a special tax on unhealthy foods is fully transferred to health wage development. This is a guarantee that we have managed to create additional resources in health care. Thus, the 95 thousand people working there managed to raise their salary by 25-27 percent, which is far from what we would like, but we have succeeded in creating a mechanism, a new mechanism that involves a new source, and this source is now in the pocket of those working there. Thank you very much. [[15.50]]
u2015-10-05-105	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Why leave the families alone?" It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-05-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, With a very specific life situation, I am now addressing you with a lot of family problems, Mr. Secretary of State. I was honoured by a three - child retired father in a letter with the problem. By the way, I would like to add that you have written to Viktor Orbán several times before, but unfortunately, Prime Minister did not give this gentleman an answer. On the other hand, I will present this problem to you in the Hungarian Parliament and remind you that the LMP has dealt with this issue before, but you have voted against this proposal as well as so many things. It is a perfectly legitimate question that this gentleman raised, which I can summarize: why do not the large family benefits come after the child is 18 years of age, if this child is now a young student? I would also like to quote from the letter: After reaching this age, the family allowance is no longer due, but the child continues to be dependent or even further educated for another five years at the university. And there are the junior and junior high students below, who also want to go to college, not to mention paid higher education. The question of why the Hungarian government is acting as if the spending with the children will suddenly end in magic after the high school is finished. Why does the Hungarian government think that, for example, in this case - where the father is retired in this family and the mother is a junior teacher - they will be able, without any support, to continue schooling the child in higher education and to ensure that the two children under it are further educated? The May Other has previously submitted a proposal in the employee poverty eradication bill to raise and extend the family allowance to students in higher education. This is also very important because at present in Hungary the family allowance is due as long as the child is in high school. However, the entitlement to family tax benefits was also linked to the family allowance, so after graduation, there is a situation where families are there with the child, who should continue to be supported, but they will not receive family allowances or family tax benefits. I look forward to your reply.
u2015-10-05-107	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-10-05-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your question, because I think with your question, you can prove how much the family tax scheme is accepted in Hungary, how much it is supported [[Lajos Korózs: There is nothing else!]] and what a fair system it is. The purpose of the family tax relief is to support families who raise children, of course members of the family, those who earn income, and can benefit from taxes on their income. It is fair, because it provides additional benefits for families with extra burdens, the burden of raising children, and those who work, earn income, and pay taxes can benefit from it. The government's objective is clear: it primarily provides support to families with multiple children through tax incentives, which is why the government wants to double the tax relief for families with two children by 2018 to HUF 20,000 per month. I think that your life situation is clearly understandable and understandable, but obviously there are also limits to the system of tax relief. Here, primary and secondary school children and students under 18 are preferred by the current family tax scheme. Its suggestion could indeed be considered, and it could be a social and governmental goal to extend it. Obviously, this could happen after an appropriate examination and analysis. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-110	Well, Mr. Secretary of State, I'll hold on to the idea that you said that you should consider it and that it could be a government goal. I would like to ask you, on behalf of all the families involved, to consider, examine and spend taxpayers' money on this. I can assure you that this is going to be recouped. The May Other Politics is committed to reducing the burden of Hungarian families and to enabling young people to learn in higher education. Our request is very clear, and as I said, it reflects the requests of many families. And I would also like to offer you an example: in Austria, after 18 years of age, if a child or a young person learns further, families will receive the family allowance under certain conditions, so there is also an international example that can be studied by the Hungarian government. If you don't do this, I'm going to interpret it as you abandoned these big families and even those families who want to teach their children. We clearly see that you want to build a strange, such assembly Hungary. Deny that by extending family allowances and family tax incentives.
u2015-10-05-111	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-05-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank the LMP for supporting the Fidesz government's family policy, since its speech has clearly shown that it agrees with it, in fact, to achieve its extension. The government has done exactly the same in recent years, as more than 900 000 families are now affected by the family tax scheme, and the Hungarian families can use more than 200 billion forints a year at this address. It also proves that the government is responsible for the fact that, where there are not enough taxes to be paid and the tax relief cannot be used, this benefit can also be used from this year's contributions. I think that it is one of the most successful and just measures of the Fidesz government, and thank you again very much for your support for this measure. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-113	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Németh, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Will the leaders of Europe hear the words of the citizens? It's a matter of speaking to Mr. Congressman.
u2015-10-05-114	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Fellow Members! Indeed, the question is that migration debate is taking place here in recent months in the United Nations, the European Union, the Council of Europe, and it is increasingly perceived that there is a great confusion, but there is no synthesis, as if individual Member States felt abandoned by these international organisations. In fact, citizens feel abandoned by their own political elites, as we have recently witnessed examples when Chancellor Faymann did not at first support border control at all, and then his Minister of Interior said for a few days that he would be introduced. Or at the European Council last week, European politicians did not support the Hungarian proposal to protect the Greek border with a common border protection. And thank God, the other day, the German Chancellor was in a video message supporting this proposal. Dear Minister, I am asking whether there will finally be a balanced European asylum policy. Can you see the outlines of this? Will European politicians finally hear the message of European citizens? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-115	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-10-05-116	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I think it would be difficult to ask a more timely question with regard to the European common policy. And, of course, it would be difficult to ask a question that would be harder to answer than that. Because the situation is that, at some point, the European Union would need common action and a common policy now. After all, I think it is not exaggeration to say that since the European Union has existed, our community has not encountered such a challenge since then. However, for now, I see that we are very far from talking about a common European policy, given that the assessment of the situation is not common either. There is no consensus on what we are dealing with and the scale of the challenge. What are we dealing with here? I think it's hypocrisy to answer that this is a refugee crisis. This is not a refugee crisis, it is a modern-day migration, in which, in addition to asylum seekers, economic immigrants are also very involved. Secondly, this is not a challenge for us that will end in the near future within a given calendar day, but it is a modern-day migration and the challenge it presents with reserves that seem to be inexhaustible. [[16.00]] I think that the European Union should agree that we do our job according to a clear list of priorities and that we first consider it our task to protect borders and then to help everyone close to home. We should have a common list of safe countries, and we should agree on a method to distinguish between economic immigrants and refugees. If you want my honest answer, Mr President, I can tell you that I do not think that the foundations of this policy have yet to be laid today, and it is very far from yet for the leaders of the European Union to speak in a common voice, especially with the people of Europe in this regard. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-117	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-118	Thank you very much, Minister. I also believe that we have a long way to go here, but I think it is important, in any case, that Hungary maintains a balanced approach that makes it clear that it is not enough to talk about internal social integration issues, but we also need to talk about external security and defence issues at the same time; it is not enough to talk about fundamental rights, but it is very important to talk about issues of public security, about people's fears; and it is not enough to express our good intentions, but it is also important to be sensible about our approach. I trust that this balanced Hungarian approach can sooner or later come to a majority position, and I trust that because it seems that this balanced approach reflects the opinion of European citizens. So I wish that we could succeed in this regard. I wish you good work, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-119	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-10-05-120	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say to the Member and to my fellow Members that the Government of Hungary was the first to draw attention to the fact that we will be faced with such a challenge here, if I have the opportunity. Obviously, those who are active in the parliamentary assembly of the European Council and we, who have been given the opportunity to do so in the various configurations of the European Council, have already said a good year ago that there is an even greater immigration pressure on the Western Balkans immigration route than on the Mediterranean route. Unfortunately, these warnings have been released by the leaders of the institutions of the European Union, and what we are now facing is largely due to this. As the Member said, we need a balanced government position, that is the case, but we also need a balanced European position from both a geographical and a legal point of view. Unfortunately, this is not entirely the case, but at least the idea that the Western Balkans route should be taken into account as much as the Mediterranean route has already gained civil rights. To conclude, Mr President, honourable Member, on Thursday this week, the European Union's Foreign and Interior Ministers will hold a joint meeting in Luxembourg, where immigration pressure through the Western Balkans route will be on the agenda. Thank you very much for the consideration. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-121	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is happening at the National Roma Municipality? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-122	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The scandalous things of the National Roma Municipality that appeared on the side of spending money could be heard today and again. I could ask you again whether you are serious about the cooperation that you and Flórian Farkas had with him three or four years ago, or if you are now saying very seriously that you are considering this and that you want to establish a new basis for cooperation. So you can see that this cooperation doesn't work, because the Gypsy in Hungary doesn't see the chance and possibility that integration processes can start. You don't see it in education, you don't see it in employment, and you don't see it in places where, by the way... - you say a lot of different statistics by reading how much feminine opportunities, employment opportunities and vocational training have started in Hungary. The Gypsy in Hungary does not see this, nor does it see it because there was no source, it cannot be said that there was no source, but their partners did not spend this resource the way they should, and it is therefore visible and noticeable that there are very big problems with the integration issue today. And you're still saying there's no problem because the numbers are going well. Dear Secretary of State, I would ask you whether you wish to involve other partners, who are not only trying to represent the Fidesz-faith policy in Hungary, but are trying to represent professionalism and honesty. Do you wish to involve persons, institutions, organisations that are able to protect Gypsy in Hungary? Because today it looks like you're deciding something without the Roma, asking questions about the Roma and trying to solve them. This has not led to a right path in the last 20 years, and I think it is a dangerous road if you choose to do so. Therefore, my question is whether you wish to build another partnership, and not on the basis of political but professional guidelines, because if you do not, integration in Hungary is going in a very, very wrong direction. Thank you.
u2015-10-05-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-05-124	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As we have already discussed here today, the government believes that Roma policy in this area is obviously not possible without Roma organisations, gypsy organisations, and that is why we have established countless different round tables, which have already been presented today, in which Roma organisations are partners of the government. Obviously, in public law, the National Roma Municipality must always be the main partner of the government, who is responsible for representing all Roma people in Hungary. In addition, of course, the government supports many other organisations in its support policy, and I can tell you by number that there are at least 118 organisations, 118 Roma NGOs, only in your narrower Patria, Nagykanizsa there are 5 organisations supported by the government to achieve different common goals. But we can talk about the Roma Coordination Council, in which there is the Solar Wheel Association, the Public Benefit Foundation for the Poor and Neighbouring, the Hungarian Poor and Roma Interest Protection and Public Use Organization, the Hungarian Anti-Poor Network, the Association for the Public Roma Women, and what other organizations they are. There is also a thematic working group within the Human Rights Task Force, directly on Roma and Roma issues. He is a member of the Gypsy Scientific and Art Society, the Czinka Panna Roma Cultural Association, the Association of Democratic Roma Leaders, the Roma Women's Protection Public Use Organization, the Colorful Pearls Association for Southern Roma Women, so the system that the government has developed in the dialogue system and in the support system is quite diverse. Obviously, the main partner must continue to be the National Roma Municipality, but these 118 organisations and the more round tables, anti-segregation and other round tables in which we meet the leaders of the organizations are all part of the Hungarian government's cooperation system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-125	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-126	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, My question was not who they were supporting, because it is clear that they will receive a lot of support in a few hundred thousand or one million forints, or even more. My question is whether you wish to cooperate with Roma organisations that have already done something in this country, because I think that only those who operate in a party-like system, and not those who may be political in opposition, or who are not politicians, independent, but do not agree with your policy, are no longer invited. So my question again is whether you want to give up the principles that are only related to Flórian Farkas and Lungo Drom and invite as many organisations as possible, independent and even opposition. Because in our time, the Hungarian Gypsy Foundation was represented by József Varga's fellow representative [[Intercoms from the governing parties and Jobbik to József Varga, among others: Jozsi! Defiance in the ranks of the governing parties and Jobbik. József Varga intervenes.]] At the public foundation, and he was the president. So we didn't just make gestures, we did real measures so that the opposition could see into spending money as much as possible, because then it's good that democracy works if we follow it from all sides. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-05-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not think that we need to discuss within Parliament the balance between the various Roma, Roma interest groups, political or national Roma self-government formations. The result of the last elections is quite clear if we look at which organisations give different representatives of national governments, since there is an organisation that gives 2454, while the others give 382, 335, 216 representatives. [[16.10]] This clearly shows that when the Gypsy decided and voted, they voted in the same direction in the first place, and it was essentially an organization, Lungo Drom, that they supported with their votes. It is never a government's job to override any democratic and autonomous organization or to rewrite the election results there in any way. We can always work with publicly elected leaders in the public body system and 118 organisations in the aid policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[Dr. István Tiba takes the notary seat.]]
u2015-10-05-129	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long will you last?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Defence István Simicskó to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-10-05-130	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-131	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Are you willing to finally consult Jobbik with the Prime Minister's Commissioner responsible for the national consultation on the Internet on the possibilities of introducing free internet? The Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Defence István Simicskó to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-10-05-132	It's a surprise assignment, but I'm happy to accept it.
u2015-10-05-133	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-134	Dear Minister, I think that, in the case of border protection which has become necessary for immigrants, Jobbik has shown what he means by constructive opposition, and we would have liked national cooperation, but despite our repeated requests, the Prime Minister has not called the leaders of the parties on this matter. The government also talks a lot about national cooperation, but even though it is in the midst of a special record number of ministerial commissioners even named responsible for a national consultation on the Internet and specifically appointed for this task, it is essentially impossible to consult it. This is about Tamás Deutsch, and although the Prime Minister's Office concluded contracts with a total amount of more than HUF 113 million plus a record VAT framework for the national consultation on the Internet, it is virtually impossible to meet him. So far, I've asked for a meeting with any Secretary of State, which has always been possible within a closed deadline. Last time, the Secretary of State for Public Finance made an appointment for Friday in a few days and received more than an hour. However, Tamás Deutsch does not seem to be willing to do so. I contacted him in July, we set a date for August 4th, but he canceled this meeting in the second-to-last moment. This meeting of 4 August could not be held after more than two months. However, after a reduction of the VAT on internet use from 27 percent to 18 percent, which Tamás Deutsch indicated, I wanted to draw your attention to some professional criticisms. Among other things, the fact that the VAT Directive of the European Union does not allow us to apply a reduced tax rate on the Internet, since only the provisions of Article III of the regulation are applicable. Annex III to the Directive, This may be the case for products and services listed in Annex II to this Regulation, but not for telecommunications or the Internet, for example. That is why I am asking Minister if there is room to negotiate with the Prime Minister's Commissioner. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-135	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Simicskó. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-10-05-136	Honourable Congressman, Obviously, as a candidate for a voluntary reserve soldier, [[Defiance.]] Now allow me, as Minister of Defence, to answer the question you have raised. As you know, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced on 31 October 2014 that the extension of the telecommunications tax could not be introduced in the form previously planned, so in mid-January 2015 we launched a national consultation on the Internet and on internet regulation and financial issues. The importance of the InternetCon launched on 3 February 2015 is no less than to launch a real dialogue between the representatives of the sector, citizens and government, as a result of which Tamás Deutsch, Head of InternetKon, informed the government that by mid-November, the proposals for decisions that could be implemented through the adoption of measures could be implemented in consultation with citizens. Honourable Congressman, In recent times, several parliamentary groups have also indicated that they would ask for information and request information on the national consultation on the Internet and digital development, as well as its process and experience. The fact is that Tamás Deutsch, the Prime Minister's Commissioner, is also willing to respond to the requests, but he considered and believes that the best way and most effective is to share information with the parliamentary factions on the above-mentioned issues, and therefore by letter he invited President Antal Rogán to have the opportunity to hold a briefing at the Parliament's Committee on Economic Affairs, where it is also possible to have a direct exchange of views with the political groups. The national consultation on the Internet and digital development will decide on the direction and pace of the development of the Internet in Hungary and hopefully, by mid-November, the government will be able to make proposals for decisions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I would ask the honourable Member to be a little patient, and I trust that all the groups will receive appropriate information. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-05-137	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-138	Dear Minister, I hope this inconvenience doesn't lead me to find myself in the penalty squadron. [[Defiance.]] In any case, in the light of my responsibilities as representatives, although I am patient, but not so much that a meeting initiated in July, fixed for 4 August, could not be held until 5 October. I can't accept that. Even more so, because I have heard this argument that you would like to consult with the other parties, but this has not been done in weeks. Even though I said here in plenary that this directive of the European Union, which is the directive on the common system of value added tax, does not allow us to apply a reduced rate on internet use, I have not received an answer from the State Secretary. I would, of course, also like to talk about how the introduction of the free internet could be created, as I think that the free WiFi has already been successfully tested in the main squares of the better-run municipalities, and even Marcell Tokody, a representative of Jobbik, has already accepted the Budapest General Assembly, and has decided to investigate the possibility of free WiFi covering the entire Budapest area, but we would like to finally have a meaningful consultation on the matter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-139	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, it is important to see, to make informed decisions and to act at all times. The congressman mentioned an important issue. I believe that an informed decision must be prepared, and that is why the national consultation was established, which is why President Tamás Deutsch is doing his job, and I hope that the course of action will soon come. By mid-November, the government will have the proposals, the proposals. I hope that, in order to prevent this, we will, of course, also be able to reach a common position on this important issue with the parliamentary factions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-05-141	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question with the title "Safe on Two Wheels." The Minister has appointed Mr László Tasó Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[László Földi: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Life is like riding a bike, you can't keep it in balance when you're standing still. With this quote, I would like to illustrate the importance of the bicycle route to be built between Nagykőrös-Summerfather and Cegléd. It may surprise many, but the bicycle on this route is an equal alternative to public transport and passenger car traffic for many. In the plains of the Great Plains, many go to work, shop, do business, or visit relatives. It is not a sport or a hobby for them, but the only means of transport. In my constituency, there are a large number of people living outside the cities in the farmland world. It makes their lives very difficult and even endangers the fact that they have to ride on the road, near and between cars. Many fatal accidents have occurred in recent years. It is in our interest, therefore, that cyclists be able to run with the risk of a reduced risk of accidents. [[16.20]] I am convinced that this would also please the car society. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased to inform you that the three settlements involved have joined together and that the 14 km bicycle route has completed its investment plans. Their implementation would increase the safety of people seeking work, help the development of cycling tourism and contribute to the preservation of the health of people on both wheels. Since Nagykőrös, Cegléd and Summerfather are located in the central region, and I am not sure that we can apply for this kind of money from VEKOP, it is probably only a domestic source. To do this, I ask for the Government's help and support, trusting that this very important bicycle route can be built in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-143	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The Hungarian government is known to be committed to improving cycling transport. The Ministry of National Development has already confirmed its commitment to this on several occasions. This year, for example, we were able to help 63 applications from 68, along with the individual, double and triple-digit main roads, to reduce the risk of accidents and to allow them to use this healthy mode of transport and equipment in many settlements and settlements in Hungary. Before 2007, we were able to build bicycle routes and bicycle traffic facilities from earlier sources, but from 2008 onwards we were able to build them from EU sources. In the next period, I would like to draw your attention to three areas. One of these is the operational programme for economic development and innovation, the other is the operational programme for urban and territorial development, and the third is the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, and since it includes the regional cycle section for Nagykőrös-Cegléd-Nyársapát, which the municipalities have applied for, I am pleased to inform you that the investment can be financed from VEKOP, this latter source, and, of course, we will strive to help the development of bicycle routes for people living there in other ways. During the next period, we plan to build at least a thousand kilometres of bikes in Hungary, but rather 1,500 kilometres of bikes, and we would like to develop cycling paths in a network. We want to make it possible to ride a healthy bicycle everywhere and in the long run. I am very confident that the planned developments will also take place in these settlements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-145	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-10-05-146	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I am very pleased if we can apply for this in the framework of the VEKOP, because we will begin to write this proposal in the next period. I would like to tell my fellow Members that the bicycle route between Nagykőrös and Kecskemét has already been built, so practically from Cegléd to Kecskemét, along road 441, we could cycle in the future on a distance of almost 40 kilometres. This section of the road is, by the way, an important route for passing through the north-south, for truck traffic, and it would certainly be a key issue if the bicycle route was to be built here for the people who live there. I am very confident that we will be able to do so in the coming years. We look forward to the support of the Secretary of State and the Government on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, In the last cycle, then in the closing cycle, we were able to spend HUF 60 billion on the development of bicycle traffic facilities in Hungary. We're very confident that this number will rise and rise. As I have just mentioned, 63 out of 68 applications have now been successful, and we can still use HUF 10 billion in total from the Transport Operational Programme this year. I am very confident that a number of other cycling facilities will be built in the region, and I also know that we will need to be treated in a uniform manner and to pay attention to maintenance. Since the management and maintenance of bicycle roads is not uniform now, we are preparing to make this uniform in Hungary, so that the built bicycle roads can be used in the long term and help people to transport healthyly in the long term. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-149	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. When will Andy Vajna's casino machines be plugged in to the NAV? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Minister for an answer.
u2015-10-05-150	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-10-05-151	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-152	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When LMP asked questions about reducing gambling addiction this summer, the government replied that a government decree containing detailed player protection rules would be announced in the third quarter of 2015. Since then, we have been treading on the fourth quarter, but the regulation has still not been published. However, we have seen the draft regulation, but it has shown very serious shortcomings. For the 150,000 pathological toy addicts living in Hungary, which you have recognised, it would be necessary to take real and effective measures, not to bounce. But there's another huge deficiency here with regard to casinos. They still don't want Andy Vajna's luxury casinos tied to the IRS. Minister Mihály Varga, in an interview last week, said that many new players in the service sector could be required to use online cash registers, such as repair services, car component dealers, money changers, masseurs, and even discotheques and fitness clubs will be directly connected to the NAV. Dear Secretary of State, How is it possible that from the arctic spicy to massage parlors, everyone is connected directly to the NAV, only Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima's casinos with a hundred billion-dollar turnover are excluded from this regulation? They continue to confess the profits of slot machines according to their conscience, and they continue to be checked at random by the tax authorities, analysing the footage of tiny little cameras. That's completely impossible, by the way. How can this be allowed in the casino industry, moving more than 800,000 visitors and nearly 130 billion forints last year alone? How long will Andy Vajna's casino business be protected, how long will they fatten their favorite offshore horse?
u2015-10-05-153	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-10-05-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reassure you that the government regulation on toy addicts, mentioned by you, was discussed at the government meeting on Friday and accepted, so there will be a rather detailed regulation within days. A regulation has been expected since 1991 and will be completely new in Hungary. As regards the confirmation of the revenue of casino games, it must have been overlooked by the Finance Minister's Decree 2005/32, which provides a detailed description of the receipts of casino games and the provision of data. For example, Article 69 of this Regulation. § (1) states that the organizer must keep account of the revenue of the game. The settlement shall be carried out and documented by place of play, including by currency. Detailed rules should be made for opening the table, closing the table, switching the chips, doting - replacement, plus and minus - the order of the cash-winning automatic upload, the jackpot payment. This is regulated in detail in this Regulation. Each player must provide a certificate of the amount paid, and this certificate may also be made in a computerised settlement system and shall be provided to the tax authority by the 5th of the following month. All this, of course, is recorded on video recording and video recording must also be kept. So the current rules and certification are a very, very strict system. Of course, everything can be even tougher. The question is whether the real income is coming in, but I'd like to talk about it in the next minute.
u2015-10-05-155	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. [[16.30]]
u2015-10-05-156	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We know this regulation, and we see its shortcomings. We see that in the course of the certificate you mentioned, we have put it this way, not by accident, practically leaving it to the conscience of the owner to confess. The amount of chips taken out of a slot machine cannot be established with a small camera installed in a corner, and certification is also not something that certainly expresses how much traffic was there. What we see is that this system gives us a lot of opportunities to abuse this and, so to speak, to circumvent taxation. In addition, in the first context of player protection, we see that they have 3 percent, which will have to be used for player protection and charity purposes. Knowing the Gambling Company. What can be expected from this? Are you going to strengthen player protection, or are you going to use this money for some mysterious charity?
u2015-10-05-157	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In essence, Congressman claims that the gambling casino does not admit the proceeds, they cheat in Hungarian, deny the proceeds, even though video recording records the game itself, it is a requirement that a settlement certificate be given. I think that the current accounting system ensures, in the case of proper control, that it is possible to examine whether or not the given casino is capable of admitting revenue. And by the way, at your online cash register, if you're already assuming that you're not going to admit your regular income, you can do the same with the online cash register who wants to cheat the proceeds. Here, strict tax control is very important, and whether the established system is appropriate to enable proper control. I think that the current system is also appropriate for real income to flow into the state register in case of strict control. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-05-159	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "How much longer? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-10-05-160	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-10-05-161	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-162	Thank you very much. Now that the friends and the pereputty are okay, because of the previous speeches, it's time to turn a little of these eight years into people who make a living on their salaries and wages, and say they have a low pension. Secretary of State, you know that there are these HUF 4-5 million monthly salaries, which represent about 50 times as much as a minimum wage person for money, or I can say that the Hungarian average monthly salary will be made in one day by a person who makes HUF 5 million, say, in the Hungarian National Bank, perhaps the wife of the Attorney General or anyone else. Is that okay? Is this all right when, as an example to you, Hungary has a minimum pension amount of HUF 28 500? Is this okay when people get a minimum wage of 5 thousand forints less than five years ago? Is this okay when health workers, nurses make 70 plus 80,000 forints? I don't think it's okay, we need to shake our pants a little bit, and we need to deal with the fact that people who actually live on wages and wages make a little more money. The money in their hands is worth more than it was worth before. There's a source, you know. They always say GDP increases by 3-3.5%. That's 600-700 billion forints. They also say black should be whitened. Look at their convergence program, you can read it there. If only 10 percent of the money in the black economy is whitened, it's 600 billion forints. You're slowly becoming the owner of the IPEH, the person handling the issues of the tax and customs office, and there's a $2300 billion tax and customs reserve there. So, so, there's a lot more to say, there shouldn't be prestige investments, there's a lot of things to do, and there's four or five times as much money as there is to say. When are they gonna do this? When are you going to go this way? Not on the posters - in reality. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-05-163	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-05-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You're asking for a raise in the public sector and across the country, that's the point of your question. This is very, very honored, I very much appreciate your concern for the Hungarian people as an opposition representative. However, when you were in government, real earnings in Hungary declined in an interesting manner in eight years. They decreased when they took away the 13th month pension when they took away the 13th month salary of the public sector. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] However, for 31 months now, real demand has increased both in the competition and in the public sector. For example, in the first half of 2015, this increase was 3.8 percent. If we consider that in 2016, the personal income tax rate will decrease by 1 percent, then the income of every Hungarian citizen, who receives income, will increase by 1 percent. So there is indeed a state and government measure to increase actions. I also think that the initial career models are very helpful in terms of the public sector that the government is pursuing. So every year, it helps to increase the income of public sector workers by introducing a career. I feel that the government's measures are in proportion to the country's capacity to carry a load, and we are moving forward at an appropriate pace and consistently in this area as well. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-05-165	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-10-05-166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I can tell you that you like to fight, so I'm telling you, I'm not asking you for anything, Mr. Secretary. I demand it. I demand that the people who live their lives on the stage of misery be given a helping hand, not cynically laughing around them, be slapped through the mountains of posters. Yeah, you've been ruling for six years, you could've done anything, you didn't do anything for these people. They didn't make any of the 1 million new jobs, they didn't give people anything out of minimum living wages. Instead, or at the same time, you placed the public money at brokerage companies, and then these, when the situation was bad, quickly withdrawn and put a lot of people in an impossible position. You know, I'm not telling you anything but to raise the minimum pension amount to 50 thousand forints, raise the minimum wage to 100 thousand forints, and make no less than 150 thousand forints net in the public sector. Well, if they've done these things, they're doing something for people. Not to lie, not to help theft, but to act for the people. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-05-167	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, if I may, I would not take on this alpári style, so I would rather report on some of the government's achievements. For example, about raising the minimum wage, which grew from HUF 73 500 to HUF 105 000 [[Nándor Gúr keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] , guaranteed minimum wage from HUF 89 500 to HUF 122 000. We have achieved significant results in the extension of the family tax relief, which has significantly increased the real value of income between 15 and 48 percent, depending on the number of children. From 2013 onwards, family tax incentives continue to increase by 11 percent. Moreover, between 2010 and 2014, the value of the family tax relief increased by 10.8 percent, which is double the GDP growth. I accept that this is not enough for Congressman, but this is what the country has at the moment. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-05-169	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The last immediate question you have to ask today, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, is an immediate question to the Minister of Human Resources: what has changed in health care? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the person of the response, or personally...
u2015-10-05-170	Of course I'll take it.
u2015-10-05-171	The opportunity is yours, Congressman. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2015-10-05-172	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am in a very easy position, because my fellow Member Luke has already pushed and asked you so much about health issues, and your response has resulted in the constantly recurring 500 billion dollars spent on hospitals in recent years, on these EU projects. However, a lot of questions remain unanswered that my fellow Member has asked, and there has been no improvement in the wages of rescue stations and ambulance workers. At the beginning of the government cycle, they promised to renovate 60 rescue stations and create 22 new ones. However, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that there are two rescue stations in this country that have been left out. There's one of them, the rescue station in Kőszeg and Múhóvár. The rescue station in Múllóvár is not the 21st. It doesn't correspond to the century, but it doesn't even correspond to the 19th. Under conditions, they wash their equipment contaminated with mucus in a place where hands are washed or brushed by workers who spend 12 or 24 hours a day there. I think if the SAO goes out there to check, they'll shut down those rescue stations with immediate effect. One part of my question would be whether the government is building a new one with these two rescue stations, because they cannot be renovated, because they are protected by monuments, so I trust that the government will build a new rescue station for Dombóvár or Kőszeg. The other issue is the wages of health workers. I talked to a lot of health workers, none of them could tell me how much their wages had risen. It's very simple why, because they didn't notice. And if you'd like, Mr. Secretary, I can support these things with a pay-per-view. The question of hospital debt holdings: you can see the current debt of hospitals on the website of the Hungarian State Treasury on a daily basis, which has increased rather than decreased. That's terrible. If we wait until the end of the year, they'll still reach 60 billion. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-173	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What has changed in health care? This is the one-line address that the Member gave to his speech. If I'm just looking at the ambulance service and the purchase of ambulances, we've set ourselves the goal of getting ambulances and ambulances out in 15 minutes to 90-95 percent of the country, which is exactly why we need to build a couple of two dozen rescue stations and renovate 60 rescue stations - it's called dynamics in professional language - exactly so that this commitment, the 15-minute exit, will be realized as soon as possible. But besides that, it's also important to buy ambulances. You know that in recent years we have spent 2 billion HUF extra money trying to replace ambulances that were not purchased in 2008, 2009 and 2010. We had to buy seven years' worth of ambulances in four years, because as the operating hours of these ambulances expire each year and they were not replaced, now we had to buy new ambulances at double speed. We started these programs precisely because, as you said, there were rescue stations where the working conditions and the ambulances themselves were in no condition to accept, and that's why we had to develop them. But this is also why it was important to improve the wages of healthcare workers. You know that the fee for overwork, i.e. those who really work next to the sickbed, whether they work more shifts, theirs has been raised since July 1st this year, and we will spend 5.3 billion forints on it, and next year we will double it, so that those who make the most sacrifices are really working the most shifts, and they are there for the patients, they will receive a little more support this year than the others. We have released their previously frozen wage share two or three years ago, so that we will be able to use a few billion forints more fortunately on the salaries of healthcare workers in this area as well.
u2015-10-05-175	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-176	Thank you very much. There was no mention of the rescue stations in Múzeg and Kőszeg, although the Secretary of State may not have prepared that answer. The other issue is the purchase of ambulances. I'm only gonna give you one case to confirm the state of emergency. In August, a rescue vehicle, which ran 350 thousand kilometers, was pulled out of Veszprém County on a case-by-case mission, so it used a blue lamp and a siren, and in return they sent another rescue vehicle, in which it was 500,000 kilometers. Even a civilian doesn't buy a car like this, let alone run an ambulance service to save it, and I'll add it again, not to transport a patient. As regards the wages of the workers, I wish and ask the Secretary of State to go to the employees and look at the wage tape, because in Hungarian health care there is only one layer that is satisfied with his salary, and that is the director, because he is satisfied with his own and his subordinates. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-177	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Indeed, if the Member had indicated that he wanted information about these two rescue stations, I would obviously have been able to say more, but you and your fellow Members are regularly asking questions in writing. Obviously you know that the rescue station in Kőszeg is located in a historic building, which is why it is proposed not to expand there, but to expand another station, because it is simply because of the historic rules, if I remember correctly, that it cannot be extended, but if you ask your specific question in writing, I will answer it. I don't know the technical status of all the rescue stations by heart, and I won't be able to remember them in the future, obviously. No doubt you are right about the development of health wages, Congressman. Those who work there would earn twice or three times as much wages in Hungary. At the same time, the government has a budgetary expansion opportunity, and we have included new resources from, for example, the chips tax, which has not previously appeared as a source of wages. If we look at how wages have increased in Hungary over the last five years, we see that the rate of wage growth was twice the rate of GDP growth. But there's some kind of connection between the two. Obviously, if the economy is growing, the government can pay more wages, and fortunately we have managed to pay twice as much in the last five years as the growth of the economy. Thus, the growth of the economy was mainly seen by those living on wages and salaries. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-179	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now we're going to talk about questions. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: " Was there a cartel, or was there no cartel? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Tóth has the floor.
u2015-10-05-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Two years ago, the government wanted to build a section of the M4 motorway between arms and Abony from EU funds. After a long time, it turned out that the Union would not support this project, the Commission never accepted this project, and Hungary withdrew its request. In April this year, the government stopped building this section of the motorway on the basis of the European Commission's suspicion of a cartel. At the time, the Deputy State Secretary for Development and Communication said that the Prime Minister's Office will review the project documents in the following month, from the launch of the public procurement to the announcement of the winner, and if they find that the companies involved in the construction have carteled, they will take the necessary steps. The Prime Minister's Office then announced to the Hungarian Competition Authority, and then answered the question of an online news portal that, as far as they knew, the Competition Authority had initiated the procedure for the construction of the M4 motorway. The Competition Authority assessed the application within a legal deadline and concluded that the conditions for initiating the competition monitoring procedure were not met. They also pointed out that the notification procedure had been carried out, but did not find any reason to initiate a competition monitoring procedure in this case. In effect, they refuted the earlier statement of the Prime Minister's Office as a cartel suspect. In view of these, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what kind of investigation the Prime Minister's Office has conducted, on the basis of which a notification has been made to the Economic Competition Authority. What was the basis for the allegations of a cartel suspect? Have the European Commission received any written comments on this? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-181	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsuzsanna Vitályos answers the question. I give you the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-10-05-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your claim is correct. The Economic Competition Authority has taken a decision that the cartel suspect involved in the construction of the M4 cannot be justified and has terminated its proceedings after that finding. However, I would like to note here that we did not agree with the provisions of the decision and that we have made an appeal. Allow me to answer your questions in a manner that complements what you have described, and I recant those parts which are not incidental to the case, but are left out of your reflection. You are right when you write, I quote: "The government wanted to solve the construction of the M4 motorway between Gun and Abony two years ago, using EU funds - the end of the quote. [[16.50]] You are wrong when you say that the next step is: this April, the government stopped building this section on the basis of the European Commission's cartel suspicion. You may be mistaken for the lack of detailed knowledge of the case, as you forget the fact that, after the Commission's criticisms of the major project, we have indeed withdrawn the request for admission, but at the same time, in cooperation with the colleagues of the European Commission, we have begun to revise the project in order to re-submit it to the Commission. Between the withdrawal and the completion of the re-submit work, nearly a year has passed. This fact alone confirms that the government has taken a consistent position on this matter, an important development project we wanted to implement at the expense of the EU's resources. The Commission has always been aware that this project is to be implemented at the expense of EU funds. A significant change in the life of the project occurred when, in spite of the recasting, before re-submitting this spring, the colleagues of the Commission's regional DG informed the representatives of the Hungarian government that they did not intend to accept this stage of M4 as a major project, and here the suspicion of suspected cartelisation was also reported as one of the reasons for the rejection. Then your chronology of competition law is once again correct. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Honourable Congressman, The Government has no discretion in such a case. If the European Union expresses such suspicion, we must take action. The Prime Minister's Office reviewed the conditions of the selection procedure [[The president's ringing again.]] and then we handed over to the Competition Authority all the necessary documents that we had at our disposal. The lack of funding for the project was due to the above reasons. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-183	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Given the importance of the case, I have, of course, extended the time frame available by this amount. [[Cries from the ranks of the MSZP: Courtesy! - We'd love to hear it.]] Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. How long will the public money be poured into the bottomless well of MTVA? It's an address. [[For signal:]] Congressman, I give you the floor; the Vice-President will tolerate the fact that I have translated two on the script. Here you go. You have the floor. We're not changing it.
u2015-10-05-184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At present, we spend 80 billion forints of our common money per year on a public media that receives more money, the less public service it performs, and the more money it receives, the less people look at it. The public media is now the home channel of Fidesz, where they buy entertainment programs for billions of dollars only so that a couple of pro-government politicians can speak during their break. LMP has already initiated several initiatives to reduce public media's budget of HUF 80 billion, and we believe that this money could be spent on much more important things than having a camera in front of pro-government politicians. This money would be enough for no one to earn below the minimum living level in the public sector, but it would be enough to raise the family allowance by 25%. However, you think otherwise, because, rather than reducing the public media's already significantly oversized budget, a few days ago, in the shadow of asylum and in the face of the real capacity expansions due to asylum, they decided to take over the debt of 47 billion in public media. According to the official justification, MTVA's expenditure has increased in recent months by launching the M1 news channel and the M4 sports channel to such an extent that it could no longer pay its loans, i.e. it is acknowledged that this was probably not a single occasion. The public media can't even operate sustainablely from the 80 billion-dollar budget, and next year it is expected that it will have to be replaced by another ten billion, while we haven't heard that anyone on the government's side has even asked their leaders why they couldn't manage responsibly. Dear Secretary of State, Please explain why this year's HUF 80 billion budget has not been kept. Are you as lenient with other state giants when they build up tens of billions of dollars in debt? What is the guarantee that in a few months' time, taxpayers will not be surprised by another debt transfer? Thank you.
u2015-10-05-185	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2015-10-05-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Your question is as well as your knowledge. [[Defiance.]] So you're saying you manage 80 billion forints of public money. That's not true, out of 70 billion, so he was only wrong about 10 billion, because he collects 10 billion forints as his own income. So state budget support is HUF 70 billion. Moreover, it is important to know that until 2011, i.e. under the previous government, Magyar TV accumulated HUF 24 billion in debt, and when the borrowing took place, this debt, which the socialists left us, had to be financed. The other part of the loan is the purchase of the building in which Magyar TV is now operating, because the previous government has managed to create such an advantageless rental arrangement that it would simply be a waste if we paid the rent today. Therefore, the real estate was purchased by MTVA and the other part of the loan financed it. Therefore, non-operational expenditure arising from operating deficits and overspends is financed by this loan. Moreover, the loan does not represent an increase in public debt, as it is part of it; it is the same as the transfer of municipal loans. Furthermore, between 2011 and 2014, a very serious transformation took place in Magyar TV: efficiency improvement, cost rationalization, and do not forget that there is a digital changeover, the cost of which is only HUF 10 billion this year. And don't forget that an extended service has been launched, sports TV, M4, and sports rights also need to be spent for HUF 10 billion this year. So your claim does not stand up to the fact that this Magyar Television continues to be a wasteful farm. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-187	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President of the House, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy: When can all firefighters receive the promised wage increase? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-10-05-188	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As you know, apart from this year's wage increase, the salaries of firefighters were raised earlier in 2008, which is why a 30-percent wage increase was extremely justified, which unfortunately occurred mostly at the level of communication, but this did not result in a noticeable change in the wallet of most firefighters. Of the 30 percent wage increase promised to firefighters carrying out the basic task, according to the Independent Trade Union of Professional Firefighters, the average wage increase rate is only 15-20 percent. A press release published by the expert shows that although wages have indeed increased, a questionnaire from 735 firefighters shows that only 8.2 percent of them have experienced a specific wage increase in this case. The reason for this is the afternoon allowance abolished from August due to the amendment of the tax law, so many of the firefighters working the shift could not only register a salary increase, but even a decrease of between 3 and 8 thousand HUF. In order for the 30 percent wage increase to be truly felt, it would be necessary to provide a gross 30% increase for all wage elements, failing which, due to the above-mentioned amendment of the tax legislation, flame riders are obliged to take care of themselves and their families with less money than last year. The Jobbik Hungary Movement would like to see a wage increase for all firefighters, including in their wallets, without exception. Does the government plan to actually raise the wages of firefighters by 30 percent? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-189	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, answers the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The 2015 XLII. Since the adoption of law, the Ministry of the Interior has continuously monitored the involvement of law enforcement agencies, so we are familiar with the status of the stock and the change in the status of the stock. The salary increase itself and its implementation are governed by the Service Act, and the 30 percent salary increase is guaranteed to the deputy officers, ensigns, officers, and therefore to the junior firefighters. [[17.00]] With the introduction of the new salary scheme, the bonus scheme has become simpler, but this does not mean that the allowances will be abolished. The salary increase was based on the salary paid on June 30, 2015, which included regular salaries, including regular allowances, as well as an additional allowance of HUF 24,000 for deputy officers and ensigns. The night allowance continues to be due to those who serve the night. In the months of August and September, the increased salary was already paid by the firefighters, and the majority of the stock experienced the change as an average net increase of 26 per cent, and most of them received this with satisfaction. At the same time, it can be said, or it must be said, that in the case of deputy officers with less than ten years of service, wage compensation in Sija has appeared in favour of wages in the previous period, but this has not been a wage element, but it is a tax law institution, which cannot be taken into account as a basis for wage increases. Thus, in their case, the tax compensation, this compensation, has indeed decreased, but in their case, it can be said that the gross 30 per cent salary increase reached an average of 20 per cent net. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-191	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: å How will Vas County become available faster and safer? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-10-05-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Vas county is another step closer to Budapest and to the motorway network that provides the country's traffic flow. After the recent handover of the M85 motorway between Csorna and Kóny and Csorna, and the motorway M1 from Szombathely was opened to the motorists. Today we can travel nearly 26 kilometers from Szombathely to Mountain Village by expressway. As a result, the journey time between Szombathely and Győr is significantly reduced, while Pósfa and Hegyfalu are exempt from the daily traffic of thousands of trucks. Thanks to the infrastructure developments, the M1 motorway can be reached safely from Csorna, twice by two lanes. At present, you can travel at a speed of 110 km per hour for a length of 3.3 km, reducing driving time by another 15 minutes. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how Vas County will be made more quickly and safely available when the old dream of the people in the county is fulfilled so that they can join the motorway network. What are the benefits for the locals? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2015-10-05-193	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2015-10-05-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is good to recall the developments that have been made in the region in recent years. In Vas county, we have seen quite a few improvements and are now also beneficiaries of the region. Among other things, in 2012 the section of main road 86 between Szombathely and Vát was completed, the connecting road between Szőszölnők-Tétvölgy was built, and in 13 the two lanes between Körmend and Egyházasrádóc were completed. In 2015, the 11.5 tonnes of the 9.7 km section between the county border of Körmend-Zala were confirmed, and not too long ago, including in your presence, the M86 route was transferred between the Szeleste-Hegyfalu, and we know precisely that the motorway can be operated in safe conditions until the southern border of Csorna. The extension of the missing section of the M86 road, which is of particular importance for Szombathely, is in progress between Mountain Village and Csorna, and we also know that it will be completed by the end of 16 years. We are very confident that Csorna II will soon begin. The public procurement notice will show that if someone looks at it and knows that the investment will be launched shortly. To Győr and Budapest, travelers can travel much safer and faster, and we are very confident that these important developments will continue from the point of view of Szombathely and the region. We also hope that investors will meet our ambitions and that all of these regional investments will be made in the next period. I can also inform you that developments will take place not only in the direction of the M8 but also in the direction of the M7, the Balaton and the southern region will be available, and we will connect our regions, thus strengthening Hungary's competitiveness. Thank you for your contribution so far, and I wish you good luck. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-10-05-195	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tasó. With all due respect, my fellow Members and the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, László Varga, who wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, when can the Miskolc-Kassa motorway be completed? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent to answer the question on behalf of Prime Minister László Tasó.
u2015-10-05-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán visited Miskolc a few months ago, like many other large towns in the countryside, made promises here and signed a five-point agreement with the mayor of the city. In another question, I have dealt with the issues that I think are very lacking in these five points that have been left out. I would like to address one point of the agreement this time. This is the construction of the Hungarian section of the Miskolc-Kassa motorway, which you promised, Prime Minister, but we have heard very little concrete about this matter since then. The M30 motorway already reached Miskolc in December 2004. I think this has been a huge success for all of us living in the region, and it has played a very important role in the fact that several businesses have come into the region since then. I think it's an old debt waiting for your cycle to complete the construction of the Miskolc-Kassa motorway section, so let's continue building the M30. I always put this in a broader context, because if we look towards Poland, to Krakow or to the Slovakian sections, this could be a north-south corridor in the European Union, in fact a part of it, which would significantly shorten transport time, and it would also be an opportunity for Eastern Hungary, as new markets for agricultural products and industrial products could be found here. So we are talking about investment that is very, very important for the region, Abaúj and Borsod. So you have made a promise, which is still lacking in concrete and concrete implementation, and there are a lot of questions about funding as well. And at the end of August, you, Mr Secretary of State, announced a new type of road, a reduced technical expressway, which would obviously work with level crossings and roundabouts. In a corridor like this north-south, that would be unfortunate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think the Miskolc-Kassa motorway is needed as soon as possible, and the question arises...
u2015-10-05-197	Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-198	...so when this freeway section can be built and with exactly what technical content. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-05-199	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2015-10-05-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start by saying that for the type of expressway M, now called the expressway, this is how we write it everywhere and thus indicate that there can be a level node, depending on the volume of traffic, and naturally where traffic doesn't allow it or is more dangerous, then it can't be built and it won't be built. Returning to your question, the Hungarian government is very concerned about the construction of motorways at national borders, and the M30 is also included as a programme. The M30 motorway will be built as a highway up to the national border, so in view of the possibility, we have examined where it is possible and where it is justified to reduce technical content by complying with road safety rules and in no way to impair the safety of road users. So what we know for sure is that, by March 2018, Prime Minister, you promised that the M30 motorway will be ready and it will be. We'll do it, and I'm very confident that we'll complete the work we've already started. We must naturally take into account every option, but it is certain that the programme announced by the government earlier can be implemented. To do so, however, we need the help, the involvement of many people, and naturally we need to break down a lot of related dogmas and an attachment that, by the way, keeps the old procedures still alive, hinders our work. It is not a simple story, we have a lot of work to do for it, and we expect every contributor, because it is in everyone's interest in Hungary that all motorways reach the border, to connect every county-righted city to the expressway network, and for each region to complete the major roads. [[17.10]] We count on the help of all Hungarians. There are obstacles, obstacles, I understand, but I am absolutely certain that Hungary wants these relationships to be built. Thank you for your question and your attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question about the introduction of the subject "Economic and Financial Knowledge. " Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2015-10-05-202	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, During the review of the National Basic Study Plan in 2012, a package of proposals was developed for high school teachers, including the introduction of an economic and financial education course for a year, two hours a week. At present, however, it is said that the teaching of financial knowledge in the renewed NAT is not an independent compulsory subject, but that the knowledge material is displayed during the education of compulsory subjects, and that it is optionally possible to teach it in the course of a course at the expense of the free course. Jobbik has already initiated and has stressed the importance of learning basic economic skills in high school that can be used later in everyday practice. In the face of today's economic and financial challenges and difficulties, it is necessary for young people who are the future of society to be able to think, weigh and manage financial assets responsibly, learning basic economic basic knowledge. As to the importance of this, many examples could be set, just thinking about student loans. Surveys also show that many people, leaving high school, are not aware of the consequences of student loans, are irresponsible in taking them on, and only later will they face the burden of repaying student loans. But let's go back to the conditions for introducing the financial knowledge subject, as students are already under a huge burden on the basis of the current curriculum because of the unreasonable size of the required hours. Therefore, our proposal can only be interpreted in conjunction with the fact that the current curriculum is being considered and that the burden of students is significantly reduced, which we have repeatedly called for. With this in mind, I would like to ask whether the government is planning to introduce the subject of economic and financial knowledge on a compulsory basis, together with a review of the hours in this case. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-05-204	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Finally, we can talk calmly about a real issue here in Parliament. Thus, towards the end of the questions, this may be justified. It is not only student loans that raise the vitality of this issue, but also the fact that the foreign exchange credit problem or the global economic crisis has shown that many have unfortunately made financial decisions with inadequate financial knowledge, and that has caused financial difficulties in the management of their families or in their individual management for up to ten to twenty years. We also see that, after the change of regime, a financial knowledge has not developed in Hungary, which is very complex, complex, depending on all kinds of processes... - someone should understand and know them. It is therefore really important to increase financial knowledge in all ways in the system of public education. As you pointed out, the NAT basically deals with financial and economic culture in the 5-8th and 9-12th grade, deals with the presentation of financial institutions, provides basic entrepreneurial knowledge, presents the state's economic engagement, provides information and knowledge about the family budget and the world of businesses. A financial and economic culture class may be introduced at the expense of the free watch frame in the 7-10th grade, ethical entrepreneurial knowledge in the 11-12th grade, basic economic and financial knowledge in the 11-12th grade. It's the proper course. In addition, we would like to start a thematic week, and we have even started it. We started this by consulting the teachers, and we were able to draw conclusions from the interview and consultation of 250 teachers within the framework of the future and country travel. And last year, the theme seven 650 schools and 90,000 students have already started, with the participation of the "Money7" week, when a week was only about finance, thus providing new information to young people. This was a success, so we decided to continue the training of teachers and this thematic week with financial and economic knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-05-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The time frame is still narrowly covered by the question of Mr Lajos Korózs, the representative of the MSZP, who addresses him to the Minister of Human Resources: - Do they have time for everything but for the most deprived? Why hasn't the help program started yet? What is the government waiting for, and how long should the people involved wait? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2015-10-05-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of last year, the government announced that, with the support of the European Union, a programme would be launched to support the most deprived and that the tender would be launched at the beginning of this year. In this programme, food packages and life advice would help families under three years of age, homeless people and the elderly with low pensions to break out of poverty. About HUF 30 billion is intended for all of this, and, as the Secretary of State said at the time, it would be financed by substantial EU funds. It's been about a year since the announcement, but the program's still gone. A government decision was issued a few weeks ago, which revealed that the National Rehabilitation and Social Office, the NRSR, would be responsible for, among other things, the delivery of food and essential consumer goods for personal use to the most deprived persons identified under the programme, to the Office, which will, inter alia, review and reclassify the disabled and, in addition, be responsible for the authorisation of social services. It is also interesting, because a year ago, Secretary of State Károly Czibere said that we would like to rely on the organisations that have a wealth of experience in this area during the division, they know how to assess who is in need, and they also have a method to help in the most effective way. I can't really imagine the experience the NRSR has with how to help people in need in an effective way. When I asked this question in writing to the wallet, the answer was that the NRSR would only be responsible for the purchase of food and durable consumer goods. I'll ask the Secretary of State what they're waiting for. Why is the government delaying with the help of the poor? Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-207	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-10-05-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think you know as well as I do, Mr President, which was the first operational programme to be adopted by Hungary from the 2014-20 development cycle in Brussels, which was an operational programme to support people in need. So, among all the EU's support, we have tried to present this among the first, to negotiate with the Commission, and among the first, to accept that this must be for Hungary in the next seven years, as you said, either for families with small children, for the elderly, or for people who are in a very difficult and vulnerable position for other reasons, or for basic hygiene and hygiene products, especially for small children, we can even think of baby creams or diapers. That is why this was the first thing we had accepted; as you said, about HUF 30 billion is the amount that we can use for this extremely important purpose. The procedure itself will now take place differently than any similar programme in the past, as the European Union will impose much stricter conditions here than any other programme to support similar people in need, with strict conditions for whom, to whom and how to deliver it. Charity organisations, which have already been involved in similar programmes, we would like to involve them, as the EU offers two parts of the opportunity to involve them, one part is the compilation of packages and the other part is the logistics of packages. In these two, we are confident that we can find partners among the former large civil society organisations or charities. And we hope that these programmes can be launched as soon as possible and that we can deliver these basic foods to those in need. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-05-209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This item is closed. We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the possibility of restoring early retirement to H/5081. a series of proposals with a serial number. [[17.20]] The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider, the rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2015-10-05-210	Mr President, Dear House, I am a little sorry that we are so few, and so few on the part of the governing parties are involved in such an important debate, because it is something that has been making the lives of hundreds of thousands of people miserable lately. The fact that the early retirement pension was abolished by Fidesz and did nothing to replace it, especially for men, so that they could retire earlier, if their physical condition no longer allowed them to do the same work at age 65, when this retirement age was set, at the age of 20 or 30. If we go back a little in time, we can see that in the last few years the pension system and the area of pensioners have suffered a lot of severe restrictions. Perhaps we should start by saying that the Socialists have increased the retirement age from 62 to 65 years, and that the 13th month pension has been abolished and that some unpleasant measures can still be listed. However, this situation did not stop with the Fidesz administration, because, as has now been said, the early retirement pension scheme was abolished and, among other things, the private pension fund of HUF 3000 billion was taken from people. We know what it was spent on, which is exactly what we will be discussing this week in the walls of Parliament. There could also be a number of bad things, such as the transfer of pension contributions to a social contribution tax, so that pensions do not have to be paid, this should not be a legal obligation for you and other areas such as catching up programmes or anything else that has been spent on pensions in Hungary. Well, there was a good measure, of course, and I'm not gonna miss it. Women have been allowed to retire after 40 years of employment, but I have to add that they have also failed to do a number of things they promised them. For example, if a person has received unemployment benefits, he should also be entitled to a pension, since the state has also paid a pension contribution for that period. The ladies won't get this. Or, in fact, if you care for your mate, your husband, at home, it doesn't matter at this time, when you're nursing your child, yes. Why is a husband less in a family than a child? - It's a question. I think everyone has to be equal in a family. So there have been a number of such negative things that have been left out, and we hope that they will remedy it. Well, I don't think it's a question for anyone here that there are professions, specialties where you simply can't meet the requirements you can still meet when you're young. You can't go up to the 10th floor when you're 65 and put out a fire with 30 kilos of equipment. You can't bring a paramedic 100-pound patient off the fourth floor on a stretcher. But not only are we looking at these more extreme cases, which are physically impossible, but according to you, Fidesz is saying that this is possible in Hungary today, but we can think of drivers, drivers. At 65, a man's reaction time is not the same as when he was 20 or 30. Feel free, of course, to sit on a locomotive, a bus, driven by a 65-year-old man. He may still have good nerves, good reflexes, but the people I talked to won't even get to that age, of course, they'll leave him much sooner, because the PAV exam that they need to drive doesn't go through. But you do not take into account the fact that you cannot meet these requirements in the first place. Well, so this situation is untenable. The Fidesz government should be aware of this. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a decision, and not a bill, specifically, drawing up a list of professions, where, where exactly to pay attention and where to give a discount, but leave it to you if you are willing to vote in favour of such a proposal for a decision on how to develop this early retirement pension scheme. I have to add, it doesn't even have to be spent by the state, and I would like to underline that, since employers have paid 13 percent of the extra contributions in areas where they could retire earlier, not at the age of 65 or 60, but at the age of 55 to 58, because they couldn't physically tolerate them. Please reconsider this motion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And in the end, I'm gonna say a few more things. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-05-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, submitted a written statement. I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2015-10-05-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I struggled a little with the microphone, I'm sorry; I seem to have this under control. Mr President, Dear House, One thing is certain: we need to deal with the pension issue in Parliament. Obviously not necessarily so narrowly and so simplisticly that we are talking only and only about early retirement and/or early retirement pensions, as set out in this proposal for a decision, but I think that we all agree on the need to talk. If for no other reason than because if you recently sit down with others, whether you are a contemporary or a group of contemporaries, or just older people, then the pension issue will certainly be raised by everyone, or because people do not know whether they will have a pension at all, if they grow old, or because they do not know how long they will be able to receive their current pension. It is clear that our pension system cannot be considered stable in the long term for several decades in advance. Society is constantly ageing, fewer and fewer people are supporting more and more people, and especially men, especially those who do hard physical work, this is indeed a very strong problem. That is why we, the Party Foundation of the Together, organised a conference on this, where Vice-President Sneider, who had just spoken, was also there. We already started arguing about how the pension system should be transformed. We have this idea, and we would very much like to say it here in Parliament. We therefore encourage everyone to vote, debate and talk about this, as well as other similar proposals later on. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-213	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabo. I now give the floor to the representatives of the factions in 2-2 minutes; first to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, LMP.
u2015-10-05-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We support this proposal for a decision. A Possibly other Politics also considers it necessary to restore the early retirement pension system. The government, I note, would have had two years to look at where, which is harmful to health, it would be appropriate to allow early retirement in the case of work involving an increased burden on the organisation. They didn't do that. Then there was another promise that was also not kept. This spring, and I would like to remind the Secretary of State, that they were going to present to Parliament a proposal that they were working together with employees' and employers' organisations, but this has not happened. I would immediately add that, in addition to Jobbik's proposal, the LMP would return the early retirement pension to those from whom the government unconstitutionally withdrew it in early 2012. They've deprived these people of acquired rights. We believe that these pensions must be restored and these people compensated. The other thing is that, although Jobbik's proposal contains concrete ones, the specific rules should be developed jointly with the trade unions, in our view. We should give government representatives a real negotiating mandate for the negotiations, because there is absolutely no point in the trade unions telling us their proposals, and the government's response is total isolation. This obviously doesn't work. According to the LMP, it is therefore necessary to return previously abstract pensions, to ensure that the period of early early early retirement is not lost and to review the former system together with the interest representatives. We will support this proposal.
u2015-10-05-215	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP.
u2015-10-05-216	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the Socialists had a parliamentary decision initiative in this matter in May or June of this year, among other things, since, in addition to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, we proposed to make a detailed reference to the revision of every pension under the age limit. [[17 .30]] Among other things, early retirement, early retirement, disability and accident disability pensions, because we also see that after 2012, the whole system became extremely inflexible and these tightenings were introduced in a rapid manner. They didn't leave a transition to take over. I would also like to stress that the Hungarian pension system does not, in my opinion, have a problem with the increase of the retirement age to 65 years, because, in addition to this age, there was an early retirement pension until 2012, there was a reduced amount of early retirement pension, an early retirement pension, an early retirement pension, an invalidity pension and an accident disability pension, miner's and artist's pension. This allowed, say, people whose health has deteriorated to retire early in the case of early retirement. It is a question of the fact that workers in particularly harmful work were entitled to this right and that entitlement could not be accumulated indefinitely, since it was clearly regulated. In the case of men, ten years were the hours worked that allowed two years of age to be reduced, and another five years if someone had worked in such a job, another year. This was more favourable for women before 2012, as there was seven years of work in such a job, which gave them the right to early retirement. I think that the argument is very weak, Mr Secretary of State, when the government says that the profession register is outdated and that they cannot agree on the employment circles that should be used here. Well, we should negotiate with the unions, and we can settle this right now. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-217	Thank you very much. Next speaker was Mr Sándor Kovács, Fidesz.
u2015-10-05-218	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I think that we are on the wrong track when we approach it from the dimension where we want to compensate a job situation and a health-damaging job situation with a social security bonus. In any case, we agree that there are jobs that are being updated, that list is being updated, which compensates for these jobs and the time spent here at some level. The fact that 13 percent of the paid-up could possibly be an insurance model should not be based on a community-based social security model, this could be the subject of a debate. But I think that Fidesz's position and the People's Welfare Committee's position were that this type of damage to health, which was the basis for early retirement, cannot be paid or compensated by the retirement society, the old-age pension society, or by the payment of their contributions. So we can't support it on the part of the Fidesz faction or on the basis of confirmation by the Welfare Committee. In any case, we can support working together with the government to update the list of jobs with real health damage, and this is how we look for the possibility for people who have spent a lot of time here to receive some kind of compensation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-05-219	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik!
u2015-10-05-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Robert Merle's rightfully famous novel "Protected Men," while a deadly brain virus is taking its victims among the stronger sexes, will add another man-hating woman to be the president of the United States; rather chilling anti-utopia, but let's see what the situation is here in Hungary. Are men protected? What can they expect here? Let's check some stats. Although life expectancy at birth has now increased to 72 years for men, their mortality in the age group between 40 and 69 is three times higher than that of women. Thus, in the 65-year-old age group, only 38 percent of the female share of 62 percent is male. After the age of 65, only 6-7 percent of those who reach it can expect additional years in good condition, but health problems start to get denser in the early 50s. However, I would like to say a few words for those working in the Community transport sector, for those working in a health-damaging job, who cannot expect any benefits. After all, the government has radically eliminated the possibility of early retirement, and the referendum initiative on men's retirement after 40 years of employment has failed with manual control. What about those hardworking little people who, unlike the Gucci faction, aren't in Provence? By the way, it didn't get to the people in the air-conditioned government Audi. [[L. Simon László: Skoda, not Audi!]] The Railroad Trade Unions last December....don't let them shorten your life! The message of his demonstration, called together with a slogan, is, unfortunately, as the bus-over-the-South-Transdanubian performance of two weeks ago has fallen to deaf ears. We are very sorry for this, and we ask that our fellow government Members change their minds. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-221	Thank you, Congressman. There are no more candidates, so I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Sneider, if he wishes to respond. It says yes. You have the floor.
u2015-10-05-222	Mr President, Dear House, Well, first of all, I'm glad that there were so many comments, and all the factions were practically commenting on the subject. I think we can move forward just a little bit. I'd have a reaction or two. The first is that I think that the mortality rate of Hungarian men is well known, and perhaps there is no country in Europe where men die sooner than in Hungary. Maybe one of the 47 states can get ahead of us sometimes, but technically, they can't. This means that men are not really allowed to retire because they die before they can retire. If we look at how many people retired last year, we see 13,000 men and 35,000 women. That was last year's balance sheet. Well, my colleague Sándor Kovács also said at the committee meeting that we are talking about health damage and that that is why we would give this compensation. It's not about health damage, it's about physical change. It's physically impossible to perform the activities I've said. You may still be healthy, but your muscles don't work the way they do when you're 20, the 65-year-old. I think a lot of people can experience this on their own, every man can experience it on his own. So that is the point, please, that you cannot meet the requirements - whether driving a bus or doing a physical job - that you need. And the trade list. Please, this is ridiculous. The trade register, I understand, hasn't been renewed by any government since the 1970s. Neither socialist governments nor other types of governments. Since the 1970s, it's a shame that the congressman has even said that we're going to reshape the trade list. Hasn't it been 40 to 50 years before they changed a trade list? And that's what the Secretary of State said, that they've been negotiating and negotiating, that they've been negotiating this trade list for two years, and nothing's happened. That's what I'm asking you to do, it's a laughing stock, so please support it in order to make progress on this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-223	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 1999 XLIII on cemeteries and funerals. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/6158 submitted by MEPs of Fidesz László Lázár, L. Simon. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. The author indicates that he didn't. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. The government representative says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. No one came forward in writing. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed, although there was no debate. [[17.40]] I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László. You have a ten-minute window, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-05-224	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to thank my fellow Members for their support, because in the general debate and subsequently, my fellow Members also indicated that they agreed with the proposal that an amendment had not been tabled or expressed in the general debate. I would ask you to support the bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-05-225	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/6136. The submission with serial numbers and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-10-05-226	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6136 on 1 October 2015. LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity a bill amending the law, and the committee to that effect is the House Rule 46. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 29 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. The summary amending proposal shall contain the parts of the text submitted by the Economic Committee which are intended for a substantive change. Industry regulation also allows for the provision of electricity in the context of a so-called universal service, for retail consumers and other statutory users, typically small businesses. In order to ensure universal service, we find a number of customer-friendly conditions which are intended to promote the interests of users, for example, in the development of public prices. With this bill, the government aims to introduce new benefits to ensure that consumers are properly served. Thus, with the proposed amendment, we can draw even closer to the objective set out in the bill, i.e. ensuring the continued supply of electricity within the framework of universal service for users for whom the company completing the service does not temporarily provide. I ask for the support of my fellow Members for this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-05-227	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Dear Parliament, No one's come forward. I see a name on the screen: I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-10-05-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As has just been said, in the Legislative Committee, a large majority, almost unanimously, supported a summary initiative, an amendment, which was mostly a technical amendment to the bill. Nevertheless, the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party has not changed with regard to the whole of the law. We will not be able to support this bill, because, as I explained in the general debate, there are no guarantees that the state-owned universal service will result in higher service standards, lower prices and greater efficiency in terms of electricity. Here we are at the end of a bill that is very similar to the previous amendment to the law on gas supplies. Here, it gives universal service providers an opportunity to return their license, and we can see the intention that the public utility service provider will be able to take over this service obligation as we have heard in the general debate, that just as the national utility provider does not have a business plan when providing gas supplies, so here, in the future supply of electricity, we do not see the business plan that would guarantee the aforementioned aspects. It does not show what revenues, what expenses, what profits or what losses the National Public Service Provider will expect. We heard Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary, who, at a press-background discussion, decided that the benefits of the price moderation in the current international energy market could be used to finance the losses of the National Public Service Provider rather than to give them to Hungarian consumers, for which I have already mentioned, we have also tabled a bill. So, overall, we do not see that this bill and subsequent events and the launch of the National Utility Service Provider in the electricity market will ensure that consumers are provided with the cheapest possible quality. We see that it takes tens of billions of HUF from the real public tasks of the state, as the Hungarian state is making purchases here again in relation to the German RWE owned by ELMÚ-Émász. So you can't get to education, health care or anything else, because the state is preparing for such a larger purchase, for tens of billions of dollars, and we can see that by raising the pay ceiling of state leaders, another paying spot can be created. Therefore, for these reasons, we cannot support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-229	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary.
u2015-10-05-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Three things I would like to say; one is that it is a bill, which is not completely transparent, that is what we have ahead of us. In fact, you can't support the bill with a good heart. My second argument, for which this story makes me think, was that my fellow Member spoke in Hungarian about how and how efficiency can be increased, how and how prices can be reduced, and to achieve a higher quality of service, we cannot see the guarantees on these. The third thing that cannot confirm the call for a vote in favour is simply that, let me put it this way, these organizations are regarded as independent payment places of friends. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, Mr. Secretary of State, they have paying places worth 3, 4 and 5 million forints, and they've been called to life, right, with the bloated payments over 2 million forints, like they used to say. If my memoirs are correct, the banking sector is now 5 million HUF, and in the case of strategic companies, the monthly salary scale of 4 million HUF has been drawn. So we wouldn't want to join and personally join a story that, in the case of incomes above HUF 2 million that you consider to be brazen, even at the time, imposed a 98 percent tax burden on pedagogical severance benefits, and now people can pocket HUF 5 million. There could be other reasons for this story, but I just wanted to say that these are all obstacles in this regard. I would like to ask the Secretary of State with great respect that he does not want to explain this, because it cannot be accepted. Thank you very much. [[17.50]]
u2015-10-05-231	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[L. Simon on László's signal:]] You have the floor, Secretary of State L. Simon.
u2015-10-05-232	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There was not much debate at the conclusion, and the truth is that there was no new aspect, because everything that my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth said was also said in the general debate, and they were also partially revealed at the Legislative Committee meeting. So, in fact, we did not have a closing debate, but the arguments made in the general debate were repeated. So I'm not going to answer them, because I think we've talked about all this. What was not new in my fellow Member's speech is that he points out to the government preparing the bill that there are no guarantees that he will provide services at a higher level, at lower prices, more effectively. This bill - I have said this before - is not your task, nor is it your undertaking. Taking a bill to account for a business plan is, to say the least, an exaggeration. However, for one reason, I asked for the floor to respond partly to Bertalan Tóth and partly to his parliamentary echo, Nándor Gúr. I say that Nándor Gúr is the parliamentary echo, because he said nothing but the three arguments that Bertalan Tóth said, repeated, said the same thing in other words, and then said that there could be other reasons, but he does not now. We would have wondered if the arguments that Bertalan Tóth has drawn up in a specific way, which are a basis for discussion, were beyond any other arguments. You said you could have, but you didn't say anything else. So for the many times, I have concluded that as an echo in Parliament, you should try to express the collected thoughts of your fellow Members in a less focused way here, but I will not give you a meaningful answer, because you have also called me, questioning the substance of Parliament's debate culture, so that I will not give you an explanation, because they will not accept it anyway. That is how we can argue in Parliament, Mr Gúr. But for one thing, I do have to respond to what my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth said, and then Nándor Gúr repeated me as an echo of Parliament, and that is a question of salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the problem is that you always bring up things in the debate of a bill that are not integral to the bill. I do not stop to react now, because when you ask us to provide services at a higher standard, lower price and more efficiently, while we are condemned to use professionals who are seeking many times the current salary of a state leader on the market - these two do not work at the same time, my fellow Members, you know very well. It certainly won't work to have a manager, a top manager, in the state banking sector. Even so, many professionals who are involved in government work who are moving from the market sector to politics have to face serious pay cuts, but I think that work for their country, the national community and the responsibility they feel can make up for it in some way. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to talk about anything other than what is in the bill, not to ask for something on a bill that cannot have a purpose and purpose, and not to talk about paying places here all the time, who have gained a great deal of routine in setting up paying places between 2002 and 2010. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who have shown moderation, and even my fellow Members who are still more moderate, to support the bill with their vote tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-05-233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. And I ask you, Congressman Nándor Gúr, not to echo. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the establishment of minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the transposition of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing a framework decision 2001/220/JHA and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. T/6133. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-10-05-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6133 on 1 October 2015. It adopted a legislative proposal amending certain laws necessary for the transposition of Council Framework Decision 2012/29/EU of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA and adopted 31 amendments and summary reports, with a unanimous vote. The summarised amendment contains nine-point technical and text-focusing amendments to the text submitted by the Judicial Committee. The adoption of the proposal allows the provisions of Hungarian legislation to fully comply with the directive referred to in the title. The directive sets the deadline for transposition into national law on 16 December 2015, and I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-05-235	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, I ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, who has a total timeframe of 10 minutes at the end of the debate, together with the closing word.
u2015-10-05-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would now like to respond to what has been said in the debate, given that the political groups, the Members, have supported the adoption of the bill. The Directive contains provisions on partly criminal procedural and partly victim-help services, with a broader regulatory scope than the Council Framework Decision on the status of victims in criminal proceedings, which is a direct predecessor and replaced by the Council Framework Decision on the status of victims in criminal proceedings. It is clear from the titles of the two Community standards that the theme of victim assistance has evolved. The previous Framework Decision sought to provide the victim with minimum rights in criminal proceedings, while the Directive partly broadens these procedural rights and sets minimum standards for assistance to victims in a more narrow sense as a new regulatory area. The bill amends the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure, as set out in the Directive, in such a way as to grant a wider right of participation and declaration to persons who have been victims of crime. The main provisions of the bill on criminal proceedings are intended to ensure that victims, i.e. victims, have access to wider participation rights and legal assistance in the context of victim support services in the event of need before the judicial phase of criminal proceedings. [[18.00]] The bill also ensures the domestic application of the directive, according to which the victim should be informed, at his request, of the release of the perpetrator, in so far as this does not jeopardise the interests of the perpetrator. In addition, it is a major innovation that persons involved in criminal proceedings are obliged to provide the necessary information in a simple and understandable form by the authority acting in criminal proceedings and by the court. In addition to the information, the protection and procedural role of the victim should be ensured by the amendments to the bill to avoid unnecessary contact between victims and offenders in the conduct of procedural acts. With regard to the rules on victim support, the bill gave us the opportunity to establish structural and conceptual consistency between victim assistance forms. In addition, the existence of legal institutions that have been developed in recent years, such as 24-hour telephone or emotional assistance, could be laid down in legislative provisions. In the course of the debate, it was clear that my fellow Members were in agreement with the objectives pursued by the bill, and as a rapporteur, we welcome this, and as no amendment of the content of the bill has been tabled, only one text-focusing amendment should be made on the basis of the summarised amendment. Dear Parliament, I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for their support and ask you to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-05-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Interventions by the Members shall take place within the time limits on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-10-05-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Although we are rather shorthanded on this item on the agenda, as regards the number of Members of Parliament, regardless of the fact that we have provided the government with our support on this issue - because it is indeed a forward-looking proposal, and I also said at the committee meeting that the summary amendment has brought only technical changes into the law, which may, on the one hand, be a good thing that technical and not Cardinal amendments have come in which the government could have tabled before, but we often see a package that someone will write and bring to the committee at the last minute, so there was no such surprise - but we would have liked it in a good sense if a surprise package had been presented to the committee. I am thinking that in the general debate I have said what we would have expected from this law, or if we were talking about victim protection and victims, then that is still very little that has been presented here. It is mainly a transposition of an EU directive, which is a little late but at least integrated into the Hungarian legal order. I don't want to go into details, maybe I would just like to highlight two things from the long proposal. What Mr. Secretary of State has said is that the victim and the victim depend on which one we are talking about, and that the perpetrator should not be able to meet, or that we should minimize their opportunities to meet, it is very important to have today's circumstances known as criminal and investigative circumstances. In many cases, a person who has to make another confession as a victim may suffer serious stress. In many cases, his threat occurs on these occasions, as well as, let's say, the judge and the members of the investigating authority may be threatened by the perpetrators. These are not even extreme examples of Hungarian public safety. But trying to get the victim to change his testimony is quite common, unfortunately. So it's a good goal in itself. Not long ago, we introduced it into the Hungarian legal order, so that it is possible to request notification of certain crimes if the perpetrator was released from prison, either in advance or under forced treatment in an institution. Now it is further expanded to make it possible to ask for this in any case. This is also a good thing, and it is also fully eligible. So the package, as I said, is good. But it has been left out of it, and I would like to say it once again to Mr Secretary of State, and I will do so until this is done, the real, full-scale effort to achieve a full-scale resolution, which, unfortunately, does not represent the state and the government at the moment. [[László Földi takes over the notary seat.]] In many cases, if a person becomes a victim, he cannot receive the compensation awarded to him by the civil courts, which in effect could either bring his life back to normal or rehabilitate the grievances he suffered. In many cases, you can't have this because the state, let's say, is taking away all the property, seized property, of the perpetrators in terms of criminal costs. I have asked for amendments several times, we have tabled several proposals, amendments to the law on criminal proceedings or even proposals for decisions, but there must be some solution to this. Perhaps a framework could be set up and demand could be made from it or quasi-substantiated to it. The application is not a good word for this round, but everyone understands the point, or even the Minister of Justice at the rank can grant a replacement with a decision, which means that the civil demand awarded comes before the criminal costs. I stress that, according to today's legal order, even the Minister of Justice does not have the power to do so, even if he has the best intention of saying that the State will bear the costs of crime, but that the seized property should go to victims, victims or even surviving children, surviving spouses. So this needs to be repared in some way. What I regret, by the way, is that the Secretary of State will not remain in his post, because these have been the subject of a professional debate. In the '90s and in the '20s and '20s, In the parties of the century there was an accepted rhetoric in the background that the expertise of Bolshevik trick. We do not want Fidesz, the Fidesz government, to continue this mentality with Viktor Orbán. So I ask that we try to find a professional solution in this, while you are still in this position, and we are also pleased that, as long as you were here in Parliament, these professional debates could be held. I am not happy that we have not been able to move forward on this subject, so I will also be chewing on the Minister of Justice's ear, but we will try to do so, even in relation to the amendment of the new law on criminal proceedings and in some way to rehabilitate it. Because I have to say that as long as we provide procedural guarantees, we may actually have taken steps in the right direction, we may have made the lives of the people, the lives of the victims easier, but they do not have the opportunity to make real reparations. And I would also like to remind you, as a last thought here, that, while in some cases money has been distributed with a government decision, this was precisely in the case of Gypsy murders, and I am not saying that we should not give it to someone in need, but not to the government to decide with individual decisions which victims will receive some kind of compensation for irrecoverable damages, or when the government helps and when they don't. This leads to the development of a double standard, which is good for no one, so I would like this condition, as long as we can, especially in the codification of criminal proceedings, if that is possible, to be abolished. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-239	Thank you, Congressman. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then I give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy in a six-minute 28-second time frame.
u2015-10-05-240	Thank you for the floor. My fellow Member, I am not speaking out because he praised me with such kind words, and in fact, in our area, they say that it is not helpful to be praised by your political opponent. [[18.10]] But the reason I don't think the Department of Justice can fully agree with you is because only one compensation is available to help victims. So it is not possible to pay for the damage caused by the crime in full instead of the perpetrators. So the budget simply doesn't have that kind of money, of course. On the other hand, we should not break away from the principle of responsibility that anyone who has harmed the victim by his crime, whether it be personal damage or damage to property, should do so, so the perpetrator of the crime must reimburse him. Of course, there are cases where victims need to be helped, and a kind of advance, a kind of compensation is paid to them by the state, but it will never be complete. So I don't suggest you try to influence the Ministry of Justice in that direction, because the Department of Justice won't be a partner in that compensation... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Order of satisfaction.]] There can be no order, it would violate equality before the law. So equality before the law would be violated by the fact that someone might receive a higher proportion of compensation, so that their compensation is higher than that of others. Think of the abuse it would lead to or would lead to unfair decisions at all, if there were different rates of satisfaction or if some damages were more reimbursed by the state or more covered by the state and other damages less. There's no way to distinguish between victims. From one point of view, a distinction can be made from the point of view of the need, because a person who needs the state to support him after he becomes a victim, and the assistance of the victim must be provided by the State, so that specific social and other personal circumstances are available. Obviously, a victim living in an existentially better situation lives differently from the one whose assets may have been stolen. So I ask for your understanding, and it is likely that the position of the Ministry of Justice will not change on this issue. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2015-10-05-241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the criminal record system, the register of judgments handed down by the courts of the Member States of the European Union against Hungarian citizens, and the register of criminal and police biometric data in XLVII of 2009. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related legislation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The T/6134. The submission with serial numbers and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-10-05-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/6134 on 1 October 2015. XLVII of 2009 on the criminal record system, the registration of judgments against Hungarian citizens by the courts of the Member States of the European Union and the registration of criminal and police biometric data. Act and, in that context, a bill amending other laws, and the committee adopted a proposal and a summary report amending it by 31 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. The summarised amendment contains six-point technical amendments submitted by the Judicial Committee. The primary aim of the regulation is to reform the DNA profile, finger and palmprint records. Therefore, where the defendant has already been registered once, no repeated sampling is necessary in any subsequent criminal proceedings which may be conducted, leading to a more efficient, rational record of data processing. In addition to the amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee, which was approved by the Legislative Committee, no other amendments were tabled, so the Legislative Committee included this in its summary report. Thank you for listening. Please support the adoption of the bill.
u2015-10-05-243	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] It says yes. The floor is yours, Mr Répássy Róbert Secretary of State.
u2015-10-05-244	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Once again, I would like to briefly recall the aim of presenting the bill, since during the debate it was found that a large majority of Members of Parliament agreed with the bill. As has been said during the general debate, the bill will result in more efficient and transparent data management, which will enable the development of a more cost-effective and, on the one hand, lower-duty register, which will significantly help improve the effectiveness of law enforcement and make law enforcement work more rational. The bill intends to amend the existing rules in two directions. On the one hand, it intends to amend the rules for the taking, recording, handling of biometric data and, on the other hand, for the use in prison. In addition, for other EU legislative harmonisation purposes, the bill would also change the provisions of the Criminal Records Act due to the need for amendments arising from the proposal or the experience of the law enforcement. The first complex direction of amendment, which is the most important part of the bill, is an amendment to the renewal of the DNA profile register, which is part of the criminal record system, accompanied by a minor adjustment of the rules on the registration of fingerprints. Another comprehensive objective of the bill is to modernise the identification of those involved during the detention of prisoners and other prisoners, which also exempts the Institute of Criminal Experts and Research from carrying out unnecessary expert work. Thus, more effective use of budgetary resources is the aim and reduction of labour burdens and, not least, of course, greater protection of the personal rights of the individuals concerned. Finally, I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for their support for the bill. I would also ask you to express your support in the final vote on the proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Dr. Imre Vas and Dr. Peter Hoppál applaud.]]
u2015-10-05-245	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I guess there's no argument or there was. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/6129. The submission with serial numbers and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[On Dr. Peter Hoppál's signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Péter Hoppál, State Secretary, along with the closing word, in a total time frame of 10 minutes. [[18.20]]
u2015-10-05-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since, in the general debate, the rapporteur's comments were formulated by the Ministry and reactions were also expressed in the detailed debate, I would therefore like to respond in the summary after possible speeches by his representatives. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the independent Member of Szabolcs Szabó, who has applied in advance, in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-10-05-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would also like to refer back to the detailed debate, because some things were said there. Since I'm not an archivist, I'm a geographer, and I told the Deputy Secretary of State that I'd be willing to believe what she's saying, but I'll look into it again. And then I really did look into it again, and I still have two questions for real. One of them, however we look at it - and I say I have spoken to several experts again - seems to me that this is the creation of a professional archives, not the transfer of the archives supervision that this proposal is about. One question, of course, is why we do not resolve this in a ministerial capacity, but this is another question. So it seems that this is the creation of a professional archives. If this is the creation of a professional archives, I will continue to ask the question that I asked in the detailed debate: how does this not involve budgetary implications, at least the budgetary implications of next year? After all, if we create a new archives, even if it is physically in the same place where the papers have been stored, but we still need to provide the workers and the research room, because there is always a research room in an archive, so somehow this should be validated in my budget, at least in my logic, at the Veritas Institute at least next year. The other is that we've been looking into this social consultation thing again, because neither the CCP nor the Hungarian Archives Association are aware that they've been consulted with him. The Deputy State Secretary said that she didn't have to, but I did look into it, and in her letter, Zsolt Semjén literally writes that the bill will be consulted with the relevant professional organisations. So who were you actually talking to? Or was Mr. Semyen mistaken when he wrote this down, or did Deputy Secretary Magdolna Zavogyán remember badly? This remains interesting, because these interest organisations actually resent the fact that no one has agreed with them to set up a professional archives. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-05-249	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt in the appointed time frame.
u2015-10-05-250	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to give a very brief explanation to Jobbik's position on why we cannot support this proposal. Although the proposal seems to be technical, we have indeed done the same with regard to personal, material and financial conditions, and have come from people who are more involved in this world and have insight. After all, we know that a proposal that can easily be justified here in front of Parliament has a completely different impact on a particular profession, and we also see here that it seems like an innocent thing to treat this material, that it is now being supervised or professional archives, and I would not agree to that. However, what we can see is that, in the case of the Veritas Institute, an additional task is actually being given, that in the future - and in my opinion, here my fellow Member Szabó Szabolcs is pushing in the right direction - I am sure that they will also receive additional resources. If not, then of course I will follow the government, but if you will not receive an additional source in the future, if Veritas does not receive an additional source, then it would all make little sense, because the extra resources can be the people who work in this whole system, not only at Veritas, but Fidesz is close to you, or they are working in the current set maintenance system, it has to be financed from something. And unfortunately, in many cases, these people are not only lawyers, economists, who are not historians, so it cannot be said that they can actually add a real surplus in such an archival work, but that has also been the case - and I have said this in the general debate, I would not go into the details now - that there is indeed a person in the advisory board who has been accused of being charged with III/II, or who has also commissioned studies, or who have cooperated with people who are suspected of being III/III. And the fact that it's just suspicion, and it can't be said more firmly, is due to the laws created in the '90s, according to which, if all the documents are not available, let's just say, a case of six, then you can't say that to anyone, even though it's proven fully that he was an agent in one of the departments. These laws have not been altered by you, the disclosure of the agent lists still remains indebted, and in fact what we have seen here from the Fidesz governments since 2010 is actually a replacement act, together with the National Remembrance Committee and the various institutions, where, of course, you can put your acquaintances in a well-paying position, or you can keep the people of the old set, but there is no progress, no real answers to the questions. You may be looking at structures, but we would like to hear names, and as long as this does not happen, we cannot support such proposals, and we consider that the past period, i.e. the period after 90, you would actually just like to continue to smear, and expect, where appropriate, that, on the one hand, everyone who may be involved in this, or, on the other hand, that, as long as he lives, he may be in well-paid state or state-related positions, but in any case, in positions involving public money, will die. Of course, Jobbik cannot vote in favour of this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-251	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Secretary of State Peter Hoppál.
u2015-10-05-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that this actually technical and specific technical amendment, which relates to two substantive issues, has not raised any concerns at the earlier stages of the debate, in this respect, in relation to the second point. Here, the amendment to the correct handling of documents produced in electronic form, which was closely linked to the preservation and handling of documents of our time, which were produced exclusively by electronic means and not later in digital form, was therefore not opposed by my fellow Members in this form, and we are pleased to confirm this. As a question of the second package of amendments, how or how the Veritas Institute of History will be able to carry out another task, in which it will carry out document management and archives, I understand and understand, of course, the range of questions raised. I would like to respond respectfully to the question of our fellow Member, Szabó Szabolcs, that the need or lack of consultation has been raised in the detailed debate at the Commission stage. Yes, I am aware of that, but since the Minister of Interior is responsible for the management of the archives in the first order under the law, and the Minister of Interior does not have any obligation to consult the relevant professional organisations, it is therefore not relevant to consult the various interest protection organisations on the basis of the consistent expert position on the amendment of the law. So since I am in constant contact with the interest-protection organisations and the meetings of the KÁÉT, the Council of Cultural Sectoral Interests, are regularly convened and discussed, there has been no concern about their part in this sense in our direction. In the context of the amendment of the law, it was indeed indicated to the committee that they would exercise such a right, but since, once again, the said legal environment does not allow it, it was not proposed by the rapporteur. [[18.30]] That a new archives can be created, I don't see it that way. The professional material clearly shows that an existing, hideous quantity of documents that has been created since the regime change and contains the compensation documents, the 14,000 river metres of documents - 14,000 river metres of documents! - the proper handling, searchability and archival management of a terrible amount of documents is what needs to be taken care of. This is a state task. So, if this state task is properly delegated to an institution which has the professional knowledge of the institution and which is dealing with this area in a completely different field of competence, now a new competence is added only to their activities. And the question that both of you, from the direction of both my fellow Members, is completely understandable and justified, is what will provide the financial background of this, and we obviously do not need to regulate it in the law. Thus, an amendment to the law should not specify how the budget demand that will come after it will come about. However, since the amendment also regulates that Veritas will carry out this professional task not only on its own but also with associated organisations, it is assumed that the cooperating organisations have the financial resources that should be available for this purpose. So I'm confident that since drawing the surplus resource is possible by amending the budget, [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Next year!]] This is very difficult, it would be difficult to do so, so that the necessary costs will be available for the cooperating organisations. I have listened again to our fellow Member Gábor Staudt's series of political arguments, which Jobbik has often said, which I do not think was very relevant to this technical archival amendment, but I have, of course, listened to it, according to which everyone will die until the transparency of the cases takes place. I respectfully inform the Member that this amendment is about the transparency of matters. It is about making the compensation documents available for research, ensuring their archival treatment and making it accessible to everyone. So I very much hope that the amendment and the institutional framework, which you are saying, will serve exactly the same purpose, and I hope that you will be able to change your opinion and be supportive of the amendment. Thank you very much for your questions and comments.
u2015-10-05-253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. The speeches following the agenda will now be followed, and I will be the first to give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue, and will translate them into Hungarians with the title "The past, present and future of the Bulgarians in Hungary." Let's hear it.
u2015-10-05-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself. This week they will remember Sofia and Smoljan, South Bulgaria László Nagy, three-time winner József Attila Prize winner, Kossuth Prize winner and international Botev Prize winner, on the 90th anniversary of the birth of a folk writer and poet and literary translator. As is known, the renowned registrar spent two years on scholarship in Bulgaria, but after his return he visited many times to gain strength in his struggle with his illness in the picturesque Rodope Mountains. He was a great admirer of Bulgarian literature, he translated many works into Hungarians, and in 1976 he chose him as a citizen of the city of Smoljan. After his death, a Bulgarian room was arranged for posterity in the poet's Iszkaz birth house, and the Great László Museum opened its doors in 1981 in Smoljan, Bulgaria. The city renovated the memorial museum building this year. We would also like to thank the Balassi Institute and colleagues for their work. Unfortunately, today our young people know less and less about the common historical and cultural heritage of the two peoples, even though studying each other's history, we can all better understand our own. The Bulgarian gardeners arriving in Hungary not only introduced intensive gardening culture, but also brought a number of previously unknown vegetables into our country. They have been responsible for the spread of tomatoes and peppers, and have played a role in the breeding of sage paprika and macoon onion, a Hungaricum. The Bulgarian cooperatives in Hungary served as a model for Hungarian farmhouse farming. It is also thanks to Bulgarian gardening that they visited the miracle of Hungarian agriculture all over Europe in the late 70s. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary, I would like to recommend that there should be a Hungarian-Bulgarian friendship day, the events of which would be held alternately in the two countries as the day of Polish-Hungarian friendship. I think the 10th of November of the Memorial Day because it was one of the most beautiful examples of the unity of Christianity in Eastern Central Europe when the armies led by Ulaszló I and Hunyadi tried to liberate Bulgaria and drive the Turks out of the Balkans in the battle of Varna. In addition, as an argument, I would like to mention our close historical relations, our common ancient history, for a period of two millennia. If we can believe the legend of the Miraculous Deer recorded by János Arany, we may as well be related at the end. The Bulgarians will always be grateful for the support the Hungarian kings gave during the anti-Turkish uprisings. CHAPTER XVII In the 18th century, Bulgarians settled in Banat were called Hungarian Bulgarians because of their Catholic faith and Latin spelling. Bulgaria is happy to remember the Kossuth emigration, the established freedom fighters who have given the Bulgarian Enlightenment a boost with their activities. The printing works in Transylvania and Hungary printed some 40 books in Cyrillic letters. The three governors of Hungary had a close relationship with Bulgarian history. The Bulgarian and Hungarian people lived together in XX. The greatest tragedies of the century: the two world wars, the Trianon peace dictatorship, the Soviet occupation. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary and the State Secretary responsible for ecclesiastical, ethnic and civil society relations for helping us to establish this year the Bulgarian Research Institute, whose main objective is to explore the historical relationship between the two countries, the past of Bulgarian gardeners in Hungary. In addition to preserving the identity of Bulgarian ethnicity in Hungary, our aim is to ensure that relations between the two countries are as intense and fruitful as possible. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-05-255	Thank you for the statement by Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian ethnic advocate. I'll ask if you want to answer on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: No.]] No, thank you very much. After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, on behalf of Jobbik, spoke again after 2012 with the title of the National Health Round Table. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 October, the National Health Round Table, after 2012, felt the change of situation, the drasticness of the situation, reconvened and again began to discuss the biggest challenges of Hungarian health. The National Health Round Table was established by the Hungarian Medical Chamber. The Hungarian Medical Association also organised the current conference, as I mentioned earlier, on 1 October, as part of the participation of the Hungarian Pharmacy Chamber, the Hospital Association, patient organisations, the Health Professional Chamber, but also the sectoral trade unions, but the Hungarian Medical Chamber took the time to invite the political parties and the government, where, unfortunately, in addition to Jobbik, the MSZP represented itself. Apparently, the other parties didn't want to hear the suggestions in the round table. [[18.40]] However, the government did not represent itself for too long either, as the Deputy Secretary of State left the meeting very quickly at first, and after that, the chief of staff left the meeting as a rear, last castle or defender, without expressing his opinion. So let's look at the problems and what were outlined by the National Health Round Table, and what it considered worthy of, in any case, to launch an attack to overcome these delays and create a national cooperation. One of these problems was the human resources shortage known to everyone, and the challenges of it, which means that in Hungary the number of health professionals, doctors and all workers is constantly decreasing, which is unfortunately not only a Hungarian generality, and not only a Hungarian disease, but also a general one throughout the European Union, but also in the developed Western world. This is what the National Health Round Table considered to be a general underfunding, so it is also something to attack, which must be constantly pressed, because it is waiting for a solution. It is already known by everyone who is observant enough to health care that hospital debt stocks, health debt stocks, are constantly increasing, in addition to the fact that funding fees have remained unchanged since 2008. In essence, if these fees had only been raised in real terms, so a general price increase would have been followed, it would not have been 180 thousand forints, but 200-220 thousand or more to pay for each procedure, some patients or the healthcare services they use. It has also been described as ageless - and perhaps one of the latest developments - by the National Health Round Table, which currently regulates health care. Such a law, for example, is the Fundamental Law itself, which is not so old, but still seems to provide people with insufficient constitutional protection for their right to guarantee their basic right to their health, to nature and to their healthy way of life and to their life in it. It has thus also come to the conclusion that a constitutional framework should be reworded that will be capable of adequately protecting people's right to life and health. Thus, at the end of the meeting, as is usually the case, the National Health Round Table made a proposal for a resolution, a resolution plan in which all parties could agree, and perhaps this is also the appropriate message for the government that the parties in the National Health Round Table - whether the Hospital Association, the Medical Chamber or the Jobbik for example - could agree on the minimum conditions, the problems and the answers to the problems that the government should take into account. This is how I propose and recommend, together with the round table, that the government take into account the calls, the public cry that the round table has used. For example, the need to increase public expenditure in proportion to GDP, possibly from 5.6 per cent to 4.7 per cent of public expenditure since 2010, should be increased to 6.5 per cent. For everyone's understanding, this will require a HUF 500-600 billion increase in its volume. But we also have to decide those taboos that there's no stopping the exodus. Yes, there is a need to think about the model of careers and wage arrangements for health care, and start immediately in 2016. But we also need to think about the taboo that there is no need for gratuity money, that it needs to be abolished, and that we need to act with the most determined legal means to eliminate it. As I mentioned earlier, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supported the activities and decisions of the National Health Round Table and will continue to support and participate in it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] because it is important for us to have a calm 20 years in health care, in which Hungarian patients can heal well and safely. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-257	Thank you, Congressman. Zoltán Magyar, on behalf of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech:. The indefensible sale of state land is being defended by false arguments? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-10-05-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I was on my way back from the Kossuth Square protest to tell you about my agenda. In the same subject, the movement is taking place, and it is not surprising, because the government is preparing for such a despicable, unscrupulous pull by selling the remaining state land, the 380 thousand hectares, which I believe the hardest Fidesz voters were not expecting even half a year earlier. The most terrible of all, of course, is that the argument system that the government has built is both a liar and, on the other hand, very deceitful, and they hope that it will work, and perhaps it can put the eye of society to sleep. They chose simple communication so that the land belongs to the man who cultivates it. Sounds good, doesn't it? Indeed, many can be very sympathetic to this statement if we do not think about what this will actually mean in practice. The government also claims that the HUF 300 billion revenue is very much needed by the budget, so these lands must be sold. However, he does not add - and this is where the meanness comes in - that this HUF 300 billion cannot be interpreted in itself, because the state will never again have access to the land lease fee after these lands; it would also be appropriate to deduct it from it. Or it would also be appropriate to take into account that the cost of the preferential loan granted by the Hungarian Development Bank, which the Hungarian State will provide to future land buyers - in order to make this a discount - will also be swallowed by taxpayers. Taking these into account, the formula will be simplified and it can be said that the taxpayers will cost the Fidesz Moonyard the state's wealth. It is also a lying policy to argue that it is now necessary to carry out this land privatisation and to carry it out as soon as possible, because that ugly Brussels has launched infringement proceedings against our country with regard to the Land Traffic Act. Unfortunately, the fact of the procedure is true, and I also find it amazing that Brussels is criticising this land law for the dew-weak, but this should not be the result of selling state land at all, because if this infringement procedure ends negatively for our country - and unfortunately there is a chance for that - and there will be a tragedy that social enterprises will have to provide land on the same terms as private individuals, it does not mean that the state land would automatically end up with, say, kft., because this will only happen if we put this land on the market. No one can force the Hungarian State to sell its own property, or even to put it in jeopardy, which will put the Hungarian land in the hands of social enterprises, as it will be transferred unchecked to persons who will sell this land because of their changed living conditions or for any speculational reasons, when they will approach the Western European price level. These were the most important factors that I wanted to draw attention to, because I think it is very important for the majority of society to understand that this is not at all the kind slogan that the government is saying that the land belongs to the one who has it. Not to mention the fact that he's going completely against earlier promises. The national rural strategy, which was developed in 2010 under the Secretary of State of József Ángyán, was just the opposite, it was just about increasing public participation in the Hungarian countryside, increasing the proportion of state land, so that the state could talk about what is happening in its territories, in its land, in part of the country; in order to be able to say that it is not just industrial raw material production that is taking place in this country. We call it agriculture, but let's face it, the cultivation of wheat, corn, rape and sunflowers is quite difficult to call agriculture. This is a production of industrial raw materials, which is mostly sold unprocessed to countries with more fortunate development than us for subsequent processing. The state will also no longer have the opportunity to launch the promised demographic land programme. This would require state land to tell young couples that it is worth staying in a village, that it is worth having children, that you should settle down, that the state will help you, and that if you have kept what you have done, you will be able to cultivate this land for the rest of your life. It will also not be possible to launch a social land programme, which was also a government promise, even in the year 2012. The poorest regions will also be most affected by this measure. And why I think I can envelop that this area goes to the Fidesz Moonyard, I will explain it in my next speech. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-259	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, on behalf of Jobbik, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech: a red-up disaster: where are the responsible ones? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the red sludge disaster in Colontár, the first sound must always be the memory, the second one the thanks, and the third one the inexorably accountable. [[18.50]] The memory because ten people died on October 4, 2010 when MAL Zrt. With the breach of the red sludge reservoir dam, a million cubic meters of corrosive alkaline fluid spilled through the settlements of Colontár, Devecser and Somlóvásárhely, and beyond the ten direct death victims - as was said at yesterday's memorial - there were still about a dozen people, especially older people, who were directly linked to this disaster who had suffered a psychological injury that they could no longer recover from. So remembering must be the first thought. Second, thanks to those law enforcement workers, civilians and all those other people [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: And especially those of the Ko.Lonians...]] Those who put their strength and health in the way of the Red Flood and tried to stop or save what could be saved, human life and wealth. So, as a third thought, allow me to talk about accountability, since there were many promises at the time, in the weeks after the disaster occurred, but no accountability, no accountability. Mr Orbán himself said that in his speech here in Parliament before the agenda, following the disaster, it is in the public interest that those responsible should be named as soon as possible, and this is also the first condition that such disasters will not occur in the future. That is what Viktor Orbán said here in Parliament. Five years have passed, and they are still not responsible. The only official body that identified the reasons and those responsible was the parliamentary inquiry committee, which, by the way, led by me, which put a report on the table in 2012, which was accepted by the Parliament with almost complete unanimity, in which it clearly identified who it considered responsible and the reasons for which the red sludge disaster in Colontár was supposed to be triggered. The fact that no one has been held accountable in five years has also had a major impact on the credibility of the justice system, since its credibility and judgement have been greatly damaged by society. People are waiting for a judgment, for five years for a righteous and dissuasive judgment that would prevent such disasters from occurring in the future, or even if it could not prevent it, but in any case would minimize its likelihood. We understand that the case is complicated, and we also understand that due diligence is needed to reach such a judgment, but we believe that if the justice system had all that was necessary, money, steeds, weapons at its disposal, then that judgment could have already been made. So, as a failure to reform the judiciary, it can be seen that, to date, there has been no first-rate judgment, there have been several exchanges of judges, the prosecution has modified the indictment and we are stalling with various procedural measures, and there is no judgment, and those responsible are laughing at our faces. But the question can also be asked who is responsible for those who are not responsible. We obviously have to ask this question here after five years, because I think that we were politically very correct in the previous years, when we always said on anniversaries that we were still waiting for the verdict, but we didn't point out openly and directly to the government whether it had a responsibility for not having a judgment, because justice can be blamed for a while, but there is a government responsibility after a while. Because why did Viktor Orbán promise that the accountability would happen quickly if they couldn't keep it? Or why did Sándor Pintér and Viktor Orbán also promise that all such dangerous facilities will be disposed of, that they will be reactivated, so that no more such threats will befall the Hungarian population? To date, in the middle of the Neszmély wine region, there is still an unreactivated red sludge storage tape, I must say. The authorities are quite simply unable to deal with the operator, even though the decisions are sent to recultivation, they are unable to enforce the obligations or requirements imposed by law. So the government's responsibility from now on is inevitable, not for the red sludge disaster, but for the reason that it was unable to enforce the consequences, or for criminal prosecution through justice, or through administrative decisions in respect of the recultivation of other red sludge reservoirs. Orbán also said that it is in the public interest not to pay compensation with taxpayers' money. Compared to this, nearly a hundred billion forints were spent, of course, in a useful and good place to a large extent, although it would be worth looking into the spending of these forints here too - sorry, Mr President, ten seconds and I will finish - but the question is why is there in the meantime? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that the owners and operators did not suffer any damage to their private assets, they did not have to sacrifice a penny for this purpose. We must ask these questions in favour of the sounds of memory. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-05-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Peter Hoppál wishes to respond.
u2015-10-05-262	Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to my fellow Member Lajos Kepli's memorial speech, which was not adapted to the genre, because it has turned into an accusation, I would like to remind you that one-sided memory does not lead forward, it only leads backwards. So you're on a backwards march, I think, if that's the rhetoric you're using. After all - I would recall the moments almost five years ago to the day - all Hungary and the whole world were shocked at the pictures we saw there in October 2010. I was sitting in the back seat of the National Assembly myself, when Sándor Lezsák was chairing the meeting, and I remember well that he commented that such a disaster had probably not occurred in Hungary or in the region for decades, and then we had a one-minute silent stand-up, the remainder of the evening class, we were quite few then. After that, dear Member, after you rightly remembered the victims at the beginning of your speech, you thanked the law enforcement agencies and those who served there, and then you forgot a very large series of thanks, and then you began to accuse the government of what you did very wrong. For I would remind you... - I am glad that you have just stuttered this sentence, that at least I do not hold the government responsible for the disaster, and I am glad that this restraint has appeared in your speech, even though we have not seen any other restraint in what has been said. Forgive me, we are talking about October 2010, when the disaster occurred, and the situation that caused it goes back to a very earlier period. So a series of irresponsible things caused the Colontar to have what was visible to the world in the autumn of 2010. Now, no one could handle it and predict it. The period before 2010 is therefore clearly questionable as to what happened then. Do you - or any of us in this room - feel like a professional to determine how a tape like this is going to crack and how it won't crack? You don't think we need expert studies to do that? Do you think justice doesn't need you to make an informed decision? I wouldn't dare say that. In addition, I respectfully warn you that in our democratic institutional system, it is a fact that Parliament and the government have been separated from the administration of justice. So if you want a country where you can affect justice, then woe to us, because I think we should let the judicial authority decide what's right and what's wrong [[Why do you have to explain yourself?]] because this is what the Hungarian people decided in 1990 to separate the judicial power [[Dóra Dúró: Then why did Viktor Orbán say that the procedure would be faster if he had no influence?]] from the powers of lawmaking and enforcement. [[Lajos Kepli: The Prime Minister said so!]] And I would also like to make the parentheses comment that when you listed the criminal record here, I am very sorry that you didn't realize that we had built a whole new part of the city or a new village. The work of the Hungarian people is praised by the fact that one of the last plans of Imre Makovecz's office could be implemented. When, during the first Orbán government, the first Orbán government rebuilt the villages collapsed by the great flood in Tisza, go there and look at those houses, what beautiful Hungarian-style houses were built after the flood in Tisza, in the surroundings of Tákos, after the Tarpai dam. If he went there, he could talk to people about how they were doing there. The same thing happened, it happened again, and during the civil government, we returned the property of people from which they were washed by the flood of red sludge, even at a stormy speed in Colontar. [[Lajos Kepli: The Hungarian taxpayers' money.]] And they got much nicer houses back than the price. So that's the state's care. If you've been there, you've seen it. I'm sorry, I don't have a house like this. I live in a condo. [[19.00]] If you do, you may be happier than this, but for those people who have received a new house in the care of the Hungarian state, I think you can listen to your opinion. So instead of making accusations, I ask you with respect, at other times also to express the words of appreciation.
u2015-10-05-263	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbikós, applied for a post-scheduled speech:.Protected men? It's an address. You have the floor for five minutes, Congressman.
u2015-10-05-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, this House discussed the possibility of restoring early retirement to H/5081. Proposal for a better decision by Tamás Sneider. It is predictable that, because of the stubbornness and anti-humane behaviour of the governing parties, as well as the proposal to allow men to retire after 40 years of employment and to fail with manual control, this will not affect the majority either. During the trial, I referred to Robert Merle's well-known novel, "Protected Men," and I'm doing it now. According to the story, while the stronger sex is being destroyed by a deadly encephalitis virus, another man-hating woman will be the president of the United States. That's some anti-utopia. But what about us in Hungary? Are men between the ages of 40 and 69 protected three times the mortality compared to women? Although life expectancy at birth is almost 79 years in Hungary for women and 72 years for men, it is legitimate to ask what about those who did not spend their time sipping cocktails on the banks of their luxury villas, but who have been exposed to increased health damage for decades. Well, in their case, it's not as good as it looks. Men who live for an average of 7 years shorter than women, who are not entitled to a retirement allowance or after 40 years, who are most forced to work in such health-damaging jobs, are in a cumulative disadvantage. But let us see what the demographic statistics available to anyone, even government representatives, show. Why should we consider the fact that he is dangerous to the budget as an eviscerated, yokeless bastard, so that men should be seen as a worn-out element? While 62 percent of the population over 65 are women, only 38 percent are men, and this alone says a lot. The fact that only 6-7 percent of those who successfully reach the age of 65 can expect additional years in good health also does not require any particular commentary. The disintegration of multigenerational large families in today's ten - million country accounts for 4 million households, of which one million are made up of households where only elderly people live. One third of the 1 million people over the age of 70 live alone, and most of them are widows, since most Hungarian women lose their partners for the last years of their lives. Since Mary Kopp's research, we know exactly what anomaly, i.e. total loss of trust, has led to today's Hungarian society in recent decades. The impossibility of designing individual fates, uncertainty, loss of faith in the future, existential threats and insecurity at work are serious stress factors affecting the active age population carrying the burden of the country's back. Since János Selye's research, we also know that all this is making us sick, that chronic stress can produce a triple mortality rate, and it may not be a coincidence that, with such stress, we are world leaders in cancer or cardiovascular diseases. We also know that a society repelled into such anomaly can easily be manipulated, since many of the unfortunate pariahs would still like to find a grip, but the experts of the Habony works might be able to tell us more about this. While men between the ages of 40 and 69 die 10,000 more every year than half a century ago, their mortality rates go beyond even the period of the 30s without TB, modern medicines and hospitals, there are additional labour restrictions. But beyond humane considerations, and apart from the slippings of success propaganda, it is well known that unemployment is very high among young people. For this reason, early retirement or retirement for men after 40 years could also be considered as an employment policy instrument, since on the one hand there would be the possibility of peaceful ageing, and on the other hand unemployment would be reduced, from which so many young Hungarians also seek refuge in the West. What will become of worn-out, not so productive and deprived of early retirement, especially with male workers, when they lose their jobs? They're getting kicked off the Taigetus? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-05-265	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:05 p.m.]]
