u2015-10-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, It follows that the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 establishing a crisis relocation mechanism and laying down the conditions and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person amending Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion is to be adopted. Report No 7 and H/6624 on the adoption of this Decision Joint general debate on the proposal for a decision, tabled by the Committee on European Affairs, until closure. Dear Parliament, I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2015-10-22-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament's agenda often includes proposals with an EU dimension, proposals for laws and decisions, international treaties. However, I believe that the item on the agenda we are discussing here, honourable Members, is special. It is special, since our task is not to transpose an adopted European Union directive into Hungarian law, but in this procedure we are examining whether an unaccepted EU legislative proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity or not. We are well aware that the subsidiarity principle in EU legislation has the task of making decisions as close as possible to the citizens of the Union, and that this principle is also the guiding principle when devising the competences of the Member States and the Union. Therefore, the Union can act only if and only in so far as it allows the Treaty to express precisely its powers. Ladies and gentlemen, It is therefore up to the Parliament today to draw attention to the error of the European Commission in Brussels as its rapporteur, while at the same time giving it an opportunity to correct it. According to the house rules, subsidiarity scrutiny is therefore a special parliamentary procedure in which, if the Committee on European Affairs examines an EU legislative draft, and if it finds it, it may initiate the adoption of a decision establishing a breach of the principle of subsidiarity by the plenary session of the Parliament. But that is not the end of the story, because if a sufficient number of national parliaments adopt a so-called reasoned opinion with similar content - which I think we have a chance for in this case - then this could have legal consequences at Union level. So today's debate is about a proposal. A proposal on which, if I were to use parliamentary terminology, I would say that this would be a bill. A proposal about quota. It's a suggestion, but so far it's just a plan - but it's a dangerous plan for us, but it's just a plan. I note that, in addition to this draft, there are two other quota decisions in the Union that are in force, which exists, but I am not talking about this now. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to give some clarification on the procedure that we are taking now. 1. In particular, the scope of the procedure is the proposal COM(2015)450 adopted by the European Commission. The subject of the investigation is therefore an accepted EU proposal which is not yet in force. 2. I would like to stress that Parliament's reasoned opinion, which is expected to be adopted by Parliament, does not legally bind the Government to make its decision on this basis in the Brussels Council. So it's not like we're giving the government some sort of mandate here. 3. However, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that if the Member States' parliaments cannot prevent the Brussels proposal on the basis of the subsidiarity principle, then the representatives of the Member States in the Council will decide not unanimously but by a qualified majority. What does that mean, fellow Members? It means that the opponents of the permanent quota, such as Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, may fall into a minority at the Council meeting. This could mean that the said EU proposal could, for one year from now, be existing EU legislation that all Member States are obliged to implement. In this connection, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó said after the last EU summit that, once the southern border closure has proved effective, Hungary should be protected from the EU quota for the distribution of migrants. That is the stake, that is the importance, ladies and gentlemen, of today's decision to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the Lisbon Treaty, together with the other national parliaments, to prevent this. Mr President, Subsidiarity testing under the Lisbon Treaty is therefore a special instrument that should be used in matters of paramount importance when justified by the socio-economic consequences of an EU proposal. However, if we look around on the migrant issue, whether in Hungary or in Central Europe, or in the whole continent, it is clear to everyone that this Commission proposal is undoubtedly like this and, as a drop, the sea reflects the misconceptions of Brussels bureaucracy. Because, in my opinion, not only is it against subsidiarity, national self-determination, but it can also have political consequences that could further escalate the unsolvability of European asylum, which no one else wants to do, by removing the possibility of a decision on quotas from the hands of the European Council, i.e. the prime ministers or presidents of the Member States, for example, and this is unacceptable to us. [[8.10]] All the more so, since the Hungarian people have already decided. They have decided that the so-called external Schengen borders of Hungary and the Union should be protected. And to do so, there is no help in arguing or deciding on quotas, and it is quite nonsense that they want to force us to do so, so to speak, constitutionally. When bureaucracy replaces sensible policy, I believe that the citizens of the Union are further away from the Brussels institutions. No one wants that. Mr President, And now, for a few thoughts, let us return to the circumstances of the process. We know that the functioning of the Union is based on the principle of delegated powers, i.e. all powers which have not been delegated to the Union by the Treaties remain with the Member States. Well, the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality governs the exercise of EU competences in accordance with Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union and that these principles really apply in the EU legislative mechanism can be verified by national Parliaments in accordance with the procedure laid down in Protocol No 2 to the Lisbon Treaty. In European practice, the common people call this the yellow flat procedure, because the parliamentary chambers are actually showing a yellow card to the irregular Brussels Commission, as we see at the football game. That is what we are doing here in Budapest. National Parliaments can therefore express their objections at an early stage of EU decision-making and, in the case of their joint action, can make the Commission change or even withdraw the proposal. Thus, it is in this way that national sovereignty parliaments are able to ensure that the Union can act only and exclusively within the limits of its powers conferred on it. Therefore, if the relevant Chamber of Parliament finds that this principle is infringed, it may give a so-called reasoned opinion within eight weeks and send it to the European Commission in Brussels. Well, house rules are 142. According to Article 4 of the Act, the reasoned opinion of the Parliament appears in a resolution based on the report of the Commission of the European Union on the application of the subsidiarity principle. So, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the current procedure is called Dublin III. A proposal amending the regulation, which was adopted by the European Commission on 9 September. The Committee on European Affairs adopted the proposal at its meeting here in Parliament on 13 October B/6222. Report No 1 and the proposal related to what my fellow Members have received. The proposal is part of the Commission's migration package when it proposes a new type of transfer quotas, i.e. the Commission's proposal would introduce a completely new legal category, the so-called relocation crisis mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, In the interests of clarity, it should be noted that two types of migration quotas can now be distinguished at EU level. One is an individual decision based on a Council decision, while the plan in the proposal we object to would be a mechanism for a permanent quota available. I quote the justification, it is quite strange and interesting to hear the wording:. The overall objective of this legislative proposal is to ensure that the Union has a robust crisis mechanism for relocation, which can effectively address the crisis situation in the area of asylum. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, If I wished to briefly characterize this proposal, I could say that this is the case of the chariot that was brought before the horse. There is no need for a permanent crisis mechanism to complement Dublin III. the rules of the regulation concerning the examination of asylum applications. Ladies and gentlemen, In its report to this House, the Committee on European Affairs raised four concerns regarding the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and the most important of which is the legal basis chosen by the Commission to adopt the proposal. Because they can only do what the Lisbon Treaty on the balance of medicine allows them to do. The main objection of our Commission is that Article 78 (2) (e) of the Treaty is not an appropriate legal basis for establishing a crisis relocation mechanism. Even Roman law told you not to look where it isn't. In our view, the rules governing the criteria and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for asylum or subsidiary protection under that Article may be laid down, but it is in no way possible to establish a fully new permanent legal institution. And that's what happened here, and that's unacceptable to us. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that in the political resolution of the Committee on European Affairs of the Polish Senate and in the reasoned opinion of the EU Committee of the Slovak Parliament, this was also primarily contested by the fact that the above Article was not an appropriate legal basis for the creation of a so-called relocation crisis mechanism. This shows that an exemplary cooperation was established not only between the governments of the Visegrád countries, but also between the Committee on European Affairs in the four countries, the parliamentary committees, because they see the situation in the same way, and I believe that this can provide an example for the European Union that the Visegrád Four offer the possibility of cooperation that if four Member States can agree, if four Member States can join forces, then why can't bring together the 28th EDF. From a procedural point of view, I would like to point out that the deadline for sending a reasoned opinion is 9 November. I would like to inform this House that the other Chambers of Parliament in the Member States will continue to examine this subsidiarity and I hope that Parliaments in the Member States will adopt a number of reasoned opinions that will be sufficient to achieve the so-called threshold under Protocol 2. In this case, it means that 19 votes must be collected. We have every chance of that. Thus, we can exercise influence on the decision-making of the European Union together with other EU national parliaments. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, finally, the main findings of the inquiry and the report presented in the Committee on European Affairs, which have also been received by my fellow Members. 1. Article 78 (2) (e) of the EU Treaty is not an appropriate legal basis for establishing a crisis relocation mechanism. In folk wisdom, the reason you can't ring the bell is because there's no bell. 2. The proposal would give the European Commission exclusive powers to determine the crisis mechanism, but, in the event of an emergency, the Treaty, Article 78 (3) of the EU Treaty, provides only for the Council. 3. The European Commission's powers are beyond the limits laid down in Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In this case, the Commission has forgotten the popular wisdom to stretch as far as your blanket is concerned. Finally, the European Commission has not been able to demonstrate or demonstrate that this proposal, which we are looking at now, would result in a new or more effective procedure in the life of the European Union compared to Article 78 (3) of the Treaty, or with some kind of added value that would require this proposal. [[8.20]] Therefore, the proposal also does not justify the reasons why it was necessary to present it, taking into account the ongoing and expected overall assessment of Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, the Committee on European Affairs shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure. It carried out the subsidiarity examination in accordance with Article 5 of the Treaty and, in my view, reached a well-founded conclusion that Dublin III should be subject to the conditions laid down in Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposed amendment to the regulation violates the principle of subsidiarity. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you support the parliamentary adoption of the report and the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, will be taking the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-10-22-3	Mr. President. Dear House, If, in the presentation of the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, someone had tried to follow the legal argument accurately, he could find, no matter what the content of the question, so what specific content of the decision the European Commission has made - that it is a matter of great importance for us, that Hungary recorded in its Fundamental Law and its accession to the European Union that certain rights of the Hungarian Parliament, bearing in mind the European cooperation system, are not renounced, but that these rights, the various elements of subsidiarity are exercised together with other nations, which means that the mechanisms contained in the European Union's cooperation system, the basic Treaty, the Lisbon amendment, must be strictly respected. It is therefore quite clear that the Committee on European Affairs and our fellow Member Richard Hörcsik, who spoke on behalf of him, should also be given a yellow flat warning to the Council in this case, even if it were not a serious meat-cutting issue, but rather the angle of inclination of snake cucumbers, or the rethink of the environmental emission rules of cars. However, it is quite clear that, at present, neither the Commission nor the Council is empowered to introduce new legal instruments on such a matter by ignoring the additions to both the Treaty and the Lisbon Treaty. I would therefore like to record the position of the Fidesz fraction, the detailed legal explanation of which my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, will present to you on behalf of the faction. Our legal position with regard to the whole procedure and formal issues is that it is a very serious issue, which the Hungarian Parliament must consider regardless of its content, and we would like to ask the fellow Members to support the committee, namely the draft resolution of the Committee on European Affairs which lies before us. If we look at the content of this issue, it is clear to us that we are facing a very, very serious problem here. Every nation has the exclusive right to decide who it wants to live with in compliance with international conventions, who it will allow into its country, whom it will grant permanent residence permit, residence permit, refugee status, nationality, and no one has the right to withdraw that right. This can only be imagined in dictatorships. Of course, we have already experienced the fact that the powers outside of us as a defeated country have decided that Hungarians from Slovakia will be arbitraryly relocated to Hungary, or that national minorities from Hungary will be deported, not in time of war, but in time of peace, but it was clear that it had nothing to do with international law or democracy, it was a purely authoritarian, dictatorial system. But we never dreamed that 11 years after accession to the European Union, we would have had the opportunity to examine a problem of whether anyone outside the Hungarian Parliament, Parliament or the Government had the opportunity to ignore the international conventions, the basic Treaty of the European Union, the Lisbon additions, to decide over us that many tens of thousands of people would simply be sent to Hungary by us to acknowledge that the forces outside of us have made the decision to live with these people in Hungary, and we cannot even take a decision in their person, because who will be sent to Hungary on the basis of the decision of the European Commission or the distribution mechanism, we must accept it. There's no such thing in the world! Comrade Stalin's spirit haunted me in Brussels. It was then possible that there were many Crimean Tatars, to go with them to Siberia. Then we didn't have to go through any basic contracts. But that 11 years after we joined the European Union because the Union is helpless, because it is apparently unable to grasp the basic nature of a problem and experiment with false solutions, which is enough for a period of time, perhaps until tomorrow - let us think that while the 140,000 quota was being debated, more people came into the European Union, not to mention those coming before and after, is nonsense. So we're trying to attach patches to the body of this problem that fall tomorrow without having any effect. In the meantime, the Commission itself is committing such a violation of the law, does he propose all this along stealthy federalist ideas? I know that there are quite a few people who cherish the idea, even in the Commission, that at some point there will be a super-government of the Union, and that can be done in a federal union, but that is far from where we are. Not to mention - we have told you many times - that the whole problem is not understood by the person who deliberately violates fundamental EU values and agreements who favours and invents this whole quota system. What's this about? The people who illegally migrated to Europe and determined that they wanted to go to Germany, Sweden or Finland have never been cooperative. Let us consider that everyone knew that crossing the border of a country can only be done legally with valid travel documents. If you don't do that, you know damn well you're breaking the law. Those who are political refugees and those who fear for their lives must stop at the first safe place according to the rules of all international conventions and common sense. That's the way it is in life. If I'm in immediate physical danger in any life situation, I'll stop at the first safe place and ask for protection. There's no such thing as going to the police, and then telling me it's not good for me, I'm asking for protection in the Four Seasons presidential suite, because I'm not so scared there anymore. What are people afraid of who Austria is not good for? To stop talking about Greece, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia or Hungary. These are safe countries, all of them, in these countries no one is threatening anyone's life. But not enough, Austria isn't good enough, you have to go to Germany. But even there, they're afraid, I don't know what they're gonna do, and they're gonna go to Sweden or Finland. More clearly than ever, the facts that really show that this mass of people is not cooperative, do not respect the rules and even consciously break the rules that, if they really fear for their lives, serve their safety. [[8.30]] If there is this phenomenon, if it is that they do not go to the open Hungarian border... - because at the border crossings in Hungary you can now enter political asylum seekers or those who fear for their lives, because only the green border has been closed. You can go to Röszké, Rédics, the Croatian crossing points, and you can submit the asylum application to the Hungarian authorities. The Hungarian authorities provide care at the designated points, and, of course, there you can wait for your life, and the person who fears your safety is certainly a positive decision of the Hungarian authority, if you really deserve it. We have made hundreds of such decisions, so no one can say that this does not work; it does work. But that's not what these people choose. That's not what you're choosing. Then, on the basis of this which I am talking about, who is it who thinks that the willingness of this now more than a million people to cooperate will be changed by magic, and who, thus far, has ignored the establishment of the rules in Germany, and who, at the decision of the European Commission, will go to Plovdiv and stay there, or to Poznań or Matthew Szalka? Well, that's not where he wanted to go. Or Lisbon - I could say all the countries. He's going to Tallinn or Helsinki, but why would he stay there? He's never cooperated before. Why would he stay there? So far, this mass has been characterized by the fact that it has not shown a minimum of cooperation, not to talk about it, but rather by the insolence of aggression and laws. How would this mechanism work if we didn't break the Schengen Convention anyway? After all, it is possible to travel freely within the Schengen area, without, by the way, exposing itself to border control. Why would someone stay in Royal Highness if he was going to Dortmund and nothing was keeping him there? Or will it work to break the EU's Schengen Convention because of the distribution mechanism? We can't contribute to that. That is why we are now protecting the Schengen borders with a total cost of nearly HUF 60 billion - from police spending, from the provision of illegal immigrants through the establishment of a technical border lock, and that is about what it will cost us - we are giving out this money because we want to comply with our part of the Schengen Convention. This is about allowing anyone to enter the Schengen area through the Hungarian external Schengen borders only in the manner regulated by the Schengen Convention. We are absolutely on the ground of the law. Compared to this, nothing will keep these people there if the Schengen Convention continues to exist. Or will we take them into custody when, through the distribution mechanism, someone in Brussels decides that the Afghan man, who was going to go to Sweden, should go to the eastern town of Poland permanently? Let us not forget that the EU launched infringement proceedings against Hungary in relation to the detention of those who entered Hungary illegally until 2012 until their asylum application procedure was completed. This so-called Western Balkans Corridor was then opened because the Union had obliged Hungary to abolish this. It's been erased. And in spite of all MSZP claims, of course, this mechanism no longer exists, because only in exceptional and exceptional cases can a person be detained if he is armed, if he attacks the Hungarian border guards or threatens the outcome of the whole procedure in a priority way. It is clear that the EU's authorities are fighting the Hungarian internal affairs because it still interprets the possibility of detention too widely. It is clear from this that no one has suggested that, at the same time as the distribution mechanism enters into force, general detention of aliens in the Union will be carried out. By the way, in the case of a million people arriving only this year, the technical implementation of this is not very possible either. And then we threaten them to receive care only where the European Commission has decided to refer them back? What has happened at the Hungarian border so far? The Hungarian government provided accommodation, health care and food in the supply areas. What happened to that? They sat down at the border and in the middle of the road, and demanded that there, in the middle of the M1 and the M5 motorway, the inner lane. It has not been taken into account, either, that the Hungarian authorities have provided everyone with the benefits from international agreements, 4400 HUF/person/day, and they have behaved in a completely different way. Then why would someone in Pieşti accept this system now? It's obvious this whole thing isn't thought through, it's not made up. And how big is the size of the problem? If someone now looks at the consequences of the individual decision on the 120-140 000 quota, which the Council of Home Ministers has made, and according to how much they have in Hungary, they can very quickly calculate that, given the possibilities of family reunification, this is a hundred thousand masses, which can be returned to Hungary in a constant mechanism in no time. After all, we know that refugees and illegal immigrants already turn to the competent authorities for family reunification in bulk, which, if the competent authorities comply with their own rules, must be granted. From now on, this one million people arriving this year are just five million altogether, because everyone has relatives and family. In fact, we know that family reunification of five million is a low estimate, because many people are counting on a factor of 6-7, given that these people typically come from regions such as Moslims, where, by the way, the number of children 5-6-7 in families is not uncommon at all. Overall, as opposed to the claims that it is not a few thousand people, this year alone, the quota for the permanent distribution mechanism is in the order of one hundred thousand. It is very important to consider that this otherwise illegal decision, which is clearly contrary to the Treaty and the Treaty of Lisbon, endangers the functioning of the Schengen system, which is a fundamental primary economic and national policy interest for us, and it is quite obvious that it is not operational and unthinkable, capable of daily, tomorrow-after-morrow political survival, and that this decision cannot be adopted. With all means, European decision-makers must be made aware of the need to find a real solution. And the real solution is on the table, hung up with the Hungarian Prime Minister. By the way, five of those six-point proposals have been accepted, and the sixth, because everyone is saying that yes, the southern borders of the European Union must be protected. So no one says no, it's just like the European decision-making mechanism in general, that, yes, we agree on everything, but nobody does anything. Because when it comes to protecting the borders of the European Union, as Hungary has protected the borders of the Schengen area, then if Greece cannot protect it because it does not protect it, and the European Union must help Greece, then the proposal is stuck here and everyone is silent. I would add, by the way, that Greece can or cannot defend its own borders, but let us add that the Greek army is the third largest in the number of European armies and the third largest in its strength. [[8.40]] This is because of the traditional Greek-Turkish conflict. So no one should have any illusion that the Greeks, if they want, cannot protect their borders; it is clear to them that they can. Because if the Greeks can't protect their own borders with the third strongest army, then there really is a problem, but we know they can't. Protecting the Hungarian border here in the Great Plain, in the southern parts, from Serbia, Croatia is much more technically difficult than protecting a maritime border. By the way, there, too, the natural obstacles in Greece are much more significant, not to mention that if you cooperate with the Turks, this is even simpler. Let's look at how the Hungarian authorities could cooperate with the Serbs or with the Croatians: a common patrolman, not only at the Hungarian-Serbian border, but also at the Serbian-Macedon border; let's look at how the Visegrad countries have worked to protect the European Schengen borders, so that, moreover, the Greeks cannot even refer to the fact that they have traditional conflicts with the Turks. Why? Does Hungary not traditionally have a debate with its neighbours on the issue of the Hungarian minority? Yeah. We know the difficulty of Hungarian-Slovak relations. But Slovakia was able to work together - thanks to them, by the way - to protect a common interest with Hungary, and it is clear here that it is of common interest for the Turks and the Greeks to settle this in some way. At a time when we are talking about the fact that the European Union must really reach into its pocket in relation to Turkish refugee camps, and it is not a question of experimenting with solutions here and there, but of what the Hungarian Prime Minister has put on the table, it is clear that it is only a matter of political decision. The EU has the money to address this refugee problem by humanitarian means at the point of establishment. So those who refer to humanitarian reasons for the whole illegal immigration are hypocrites, as it is clear to me that there is no need to help when people are on their way and to distribute bread and bread on the highway: there, in their original birthplace, in camps where conditions are really bad, humanitarian aid is needed, not when they are already on their way to the Mediterranean. We need it there, but it's clear that it's not the key to the problem. So, who talks about the humanitarian side of the whole issue, I think that the only real solution, if you really want to take action, is to stand behind the Hungarian Prime Minister's proposal, which actually proposes a mechanism for the European Union budget, for which billions of euros are generated to finance humanitarian aid. Those who really stress humanitarian aspects must do so there, not when tens of thousands of people are already on the way. Let us not forget that behind all of this, and therefore behind this international modern migration, is an extremely cruel group of criminals without all humanities and human aspects. It's estimated that 30,000 people are working in the networks of smuggling gangs. If we put up with this, we're really not helping those people. We need joint action to punish smugglers in an appropriate way, to reduce this phenomenon. What is extremely difficult to do with this phenomenon when someone cannot be denied, or perhaps - how should I put it? - they're also in the ranks of human smugglers, apparently, out of strange philanthropic considerations. But let us not forget that we have seen a number of cases where people, citizens of the European Union, have actually been among the smugglers in the field of civil assistance, because the Austrian taxi driver who drives refugees from the Serbian border to Vienna out of philanthropic love is not a helper, but a smuggler in the formal, legal sense of the word. But the Hungarian government has dealt with this problem fairly, so there is absolutely nothing to be put into the eyes of the Hungarian government and the Hungarian authorities, just to realize that if we really want to provide help, it must be meaningful, and it must not be expressed in political horse-zung and otherwise in rather harmful false actions, but rather be asked to support the distribution mechanism that can deliver 6-10-15 billion euros a year where the problem is. I note that the Hungarian Government has done this in the knowledge that this could also put Hungary into serious expenditure or, where appropriate, to withdraw support in connection with joint solidarity, but this must also be done. And let's not forget, if someone is trying to propose a solution to the problem, then the basic problem that is causing the whole zoning crisis, whether in North Africa or in the Middle East, really needs to be dealt with. By the way, Hungary has nothing to do with that, but in international, humanitarian and military action we are there with honor, against the Islamic State, in Afghanistan, elsewhere, in African countries. We did what the country could. Finally, action must be taken against the truly difficult international phenomena, such as what we have seen most recently, that, when this whole migration crisis is raging, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in the most critical zones will reduce the standard of refugee camp care by half. What's this? ! By the way, they say themselves, I don't know what kind of humanitarian and philanthropy forces they are consistently implementing. Shouldn't we have fought at the United Nations General Assembly to stop reducing the standard of care in refugee camps right now, referring to half of the financial difficulties, but to reach the pockets of the richest countries to stop the whole wave? While the U.S. leadership and the US non-governmental organizations shed crocodile tears, are they silently watching not only to relieve but also to strengthen the pressure, if only directly? That's the degree of cynicism that's hard to deal with. From this point on, it is clear that there is a need to be extremely careful in the debate about the aspects which refer to human aspects or to humanity. Otherwise, of course, on the other side of the Atlantic, Europe can be encouraged to adopt it, while doing nothing about not reducing the head quota in refugee camps by half. Overall, if we accept this permanent distribution mechanism in a political sense, then we will join in the line which, by means of unacceptable means, is trying to reduce the pressure of this crisis, to deal with this pressure in some way, to eliminate it, and, indeed, to look for solutions that can actually find millions of people - estimated to be 30-40 million of these people right before the road - in their homeland, who are otherwise victims of this whole group of phenomena. Mr President, Dear House, I ask Parliament to support the report and motion of the Committee on European Affairs, which is what the Fidesz faction will certainly do. The legal arguments, the precise legal arguments, will be presented to you by my fellow Member Répássy. Once again, however, we are not having a simple legal debate, there is a very serious content debate here, so we think that the only proposal that really strengthens the solution to the problem is that in the yellow flat warning mechanism, the Hungarian Parliament, with its own two votes, will contribute to bringing together the 19 that this mechanism can start. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-10-22-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before talking about the concrete bill, the proposal for a resolution, allow me to respond briefly, in a sentence or two, to Mr Kósa, leader of the group, but only in his absence, to what he said. [[Intercoms: Here it is, by the way. There he is! Lajos Kósa standing in front of the expert box: Look around!]] There he is, I see him. Thank you. That's what I'm doing. I've been looking for him. [[Lajos Kósa: Because he doesn't see someone, he still exists. Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-10-22-6	You have the floor. [[8.50]]
u2015-10-22-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I waited for Mr. Kósa to brief me and turn his back again, so I'll continue. I would like to highlight two things that Mr Kósa has said, and I do not think it can be much more, because it was not necessarily about the proposal before us. He said a lot of opinions, and there may have been some things that we agree on, and a lot of things I think are just basic indiscretions, but I don't want to get into that right now. One of the most important things is that Mr Kósa has told us here that Fidesz is right, because Fidesz has already told everyone yesterday that he is right, so it is clear that Fidesz is right. That was your argument on the proposal. And Mr Kósa, after this argument, begins to stalin here and there with regard to the European Union. Well, Mr President, with that argument, I don't think it's appropriate to accuse others of dictatorship. Two. In your opinion and according to you, the Union has no right and opportunity to restrict Hungarian sovereignty, as you have said, with such a decision, while talking for a long time about how long Hungary has been talking about the need for the European Union to send soldiers and police officers and take over control of Greece's borders. This dissonance between the two would be nice if the Fidesz could sort it out sooner or later. With a joint European decision, the EU has no right to an allocation mechanism, but to take away the physical and armed protection of the borders of a Member State, not only that it has the right, but also a desirable event. I would have looked at Mr Kósa and Mr Viktor Orbán, if this was what they now wish for the Greeks, let us say, another European Member State in relation to Hungary would have dared to express their appreciation for the abuse of Hungarian sovereignty and Hungarian self-determination. But since this proposal for a resolution, thanks to God, is not about that, and Richard Hörcsik's keynote speech was, by the way, in a very commendable way, on the proposal, so I would like to put a few questions on this, too, because Fidesz wants to adopt a proposal, a proposal for a resolution in Parliament that rejects any amendment to the current EU asylum system on a principle basis. In doing so, Fidesz will defend the existing legislation, the so-called Dublin system, whether it wants to or not, although it is obviously inadequate to deal with the current refugee situation. We therefore expect Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Fidesz to answer the questions: indeed, the current Dublin III. Is it in Hungary's interest to maintain a regulation? Are you aware that they are defending a regulation under which all 176 thousand asylum seekers registered in Hungary this year can be returned to Hungary at any time? The Orbán government has been bragging for months about Hungary's compliance with the Dublin rules alone. By now, they may even have believed it themselves. Maybe you really don't realize that Dublin III. Can 176 thousand asylum seekers be obliged to consider their request only this year? At present, it depends only on the goodwill of the leaders of the Western European countries that, under the Dublin Regulation, they do not return to Hungary the number of asylum seekers passing through our country to 10,000. During this, you can see that Viktor Orbán is enthusiastically involved in the attempt to overthrow the German Chancellor Angela Merkel. But are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that if the line of the Bavarian Prime Minister, who is in great friendship with Viktor Orbán, prevails in Germany, the return of asylum seekers to Hungary may begin tomorrow? What will be the consequences if, in line with the current proposal of Fidesz, the view is that the management of asylum is the responsibility and responsibility of the Member States? If, because of the principle of subsidiarity, closer EU cooperation is not possible in dealing with the refugee issue, how does Viktor Orbán feel about the common EU protection of the Greek border, the setting up of hotspots operated by the Union abroad? These are fundamental questions, honourable Members. The Hungarian Parliament can only decide responsibly if it is clear what position the Hungarian Government has on these issues. The MSZP faction will decide, in the light of Fidesz and the government's responses, how it will vote on the resolution proposal before us. Clarification of the preliminary questions is extremely important because Fidesz is talking about something quite different than what it has tabled in writing. How many times have we heard from you that Brussels' asylum policy has failed? Even on the radios, the government's ads paid with taxpayers' money were blaring about it. They now come to the conclusion that Dublin III is the core of EU asylum policy. regulation cannot be amended according to you. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in Brussels is asking why the Union is not dealing with the crisis, while he is about to adopt a decision on the need to address this problem not at EU level, but at Member State level. The government and the Fidesz lead speaker talk all the time about whether or not the allocation of refugees by quota is a good solution today, although this proposal is not about that, and that is not what the proposal for a resolution is about. At present, the Hungarian Parliament does not have to decide whether the draft regulation sent by the European Commission contains good or bad proposals for the European treatment of the refugee crisis. By the way, Richard Hörcsik made that very clear here. This will be decided in a long and complicated procedure by the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Many representatives of Fidesz are sitting in the European Parliament as a member of the largest group in the European Parliament. As a representative of the Hungarian Government, Viktor Orbán himself sits in the Council where the decision will actually be made, honourable Members. Fidesz will therefore have a number of opportunities to express their reservations about the Commission's proposal. This is what our MEPs will do, because, in our firm position, there is also a fundamentally wrong draft regulation before the Commission. However, this is not the decision that the Hungarian Parliament has to make, but we must take a position on whether the refugee crisis can be dealt with more effectively at Member State level, either individually or jointly, at EU level. Today, the so-called Dublin III. In this context, the regulation places all legal responsibilities both for border protection and for refugees on the EU's external borders. The Commission's draft regulation wants to change that. The aim is not only for border states but also for the whole Union to play a role in resolving the crisis in times of extreme wave of refugees. When examining the principle of subsidiarity, all we have to do is decide whether it is right for the Union to play a greater role in crisis management, or whether it is the Dublin III that is in force. Under the regulation, solve everything in view of the current geopolitical situation, Member States with an unfortunate geographical location, I would add, Hungary as well. I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the unfortunate circumstance that Hungary is not in the heart of the European Union, but on its border. Once again, only this year 176 thousand asylum seekers were registered by the Hungarian authorities, whose applications should have been assessed in Hungary, who should have been placed in Hungary. There are tens of thousands of 176,000 people from Kosovo and Albania, and we cannot say for sure that they have come to our country through Greece or Bulgaria. Everyone knows that there are not 176 thousand, but only a few hundred refugees in Hungary. Everyone else initially went to Western Europe with the help of the Hungarian authorities, from 15 September until last Friday. Here, I would note a half sentence concerning Lajos Kósa's claim that, for example, the Austrian taxi driver or private person who carried the fugitives in his car a few months ago committed the crime - my fellow Member says that it is smuggling people. I would not go in this direction, Mr Kósa, because, since 15 September, nearly 200,000 people have been transported by the Hungarian authorities by the same means, without any legal basis, from the southern border to the western border, with buses and trains, without complying with the Hungarian laws. So it is also clear, as you say, that if the Austrian taxi driver is a smuggler, then the entire state apparatus of the Republic of Hungary has also participated in the work in this capacity. We don't think any of them are true. [[9.00]] The current Dublin III. Mr Orbán is risking this for the protection of the regulation, honourable Members. You risk getting nearly 200,000 people here, even from a well-organized Germany, deported in a few weeks or a few months. On the other hand, the MSZP has been in Dublin III for months. It requires the suspension of the regulation and the introduction of a fair burden sharing system. As a country on the EU's external borders, Hungary has no interest in maintaining a regulation that places all the burden on the border countries, either now or in the longer term. Don't be seduced by the siren tone of our allies in the area. The Czech Republic and Slovakia can easily represent the problem in all Member States, as they know their position. These countries have neither the external border affected by the wave of refugees nor the destination countries. It is easy, of course; it is selfish, but at least rational for their national interests. But to Hungary, where 176 thousand people can be sent back under the regulations currently in force, this position is like suicide. And allow me one more thought about cooperation in the Czech, Slovak and Polish Visegrad countries. This proposal, which the Union has put down, is obviously about refugees, no matter what region they come from. Tell me, if there really is hell and a real war situation in Ukraine, or if there are expected humanitarian disasters and hundreds of thousands or millions of people are also moving towards Western Europe, what will Poland say, what will the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, Mr Kósa say? ! Are we going to provide those millions with our own powers, our own money, our own resources here in this region? By the way, no one can see more than their nose in this Parliament and in this region? The Commission's proposal is not only about the refugee issue in the Middle East, but also, unfortunately, also about the crisis in Ukraine, which is more likely to occur today than not. Where is Hungary's interest in border protection and asylum management to be a Member State's responsibility, which the Union has nothing to do with; that, according to the government's own declaration, my fellow Members, we have spent ten billion forints on the fence and its living strength? Almost all soldiers guard the fence at the border, and worse, there are hardly any policemen left in the villages and cities, because almost everyone is led to the border. How long do you think this condition can last? Do we really want to play the role of the end of Europe with our own strength, with our own money, with our own taxpayers' money? Wouldn't it be better to ensure that the EU protects its borders with a common border guard and with joint funding? Do we really want to take this burden on our own for decades out of pride? I understand that in the Czech Republic, far from the Balkan peninsula, this seems okay. The reason why this would be good for Hungarian people is less understood. We therefore call on Fidesz to fight not to maintain the Dublin system but to abolish it and to establish a system of rules ensuring fair burden sharing. While they seem unable to decide whether a solution is desirable at Member State or EU level, the MSZP has strongly and consistently expressed its view that the refugee situation can only be effectively addressed through joint European action since the beginning of the year. Individual nation-state attempts can lead to the collapse of the Schengen area in months, thus ending the freedom of travel of the Union and of Hungarian citizens, which in a country like our country, where more than half a million of our citizens are living in Western Europe, can also lead to national disaster. So once again, we must decide here and now not on the quota system, but on the need and legitimacy of joint European action to tackle the refugee crisis. That is not the issue to be decided today, nor do I want to go around the issue of quota. I would like to clarify the very clear position of the MSZP which has been expressed for a long time. The definition of quotas at European level is not a good solution in itself. The quota can only be one of the instruments of the common European surveillance and asylum system that we are calling for, which is only the closing point, i.e. the last instrument. An effective assistance of the European Union in the crisis zone is a prerequisite for the management of the quota, the creation of a common border protection, the assessment of asylum applications by the common EU asylum authority at the external borders of the Union and, if possible, beyond that, and the orderly admission of protected asylum seekers to the territory of the European Union after that. The MSZP believes that common border protection at EU level, the establishment of a common EU asylum organisation and the strengthening of the common foreign and security policy are necessary as a systemic solution, together with active engagement in crisis zones. It is not only the Greek, Italian or Hungarian police and immigration authorities who can enter the Union and who can't. Let the Western European countries also take responsibility for this. Within the framework of joint organisations, asylum applications should be evaluated at EU level, temporary placement of applicants and reception of beneficiaries of protection, as well as what we have heard little recently, but one of the biggest problems: together, it is necessary to ensure the return of all those who are not eligible for asylum. In view of this, we also consider the Commission's draft regulation to be flawed. The Commission's draft quota proposal does not bring us closer to the objectives set by the MSZP, but the extremely unfair Dublin III, which shifts all legal responsibilities to countries at the EU's external borders. This is merely a way of absolving a regulation. The MSZP, on the other hand, is Dublin III. It requires the suspension of the regulation, the immediate introduction of a fair burden sharing system, and it also represents it in the bodies of the European Union. The MSZP demands much more important joint European engagement, because it is the only way to preserve the European Union without internal borders, and the real stake, my fellow Members, in terms of our own citizens. If Fidesz agrees with these principles, if it agrees with the need for action at EU level, only against the Commission's failed draft regulation, then a national consensus can be reached in this case. If Fidesz has set the goal of changing the regulation that violates Hungary's interests, a new European lobbying for a more effective and fairer EU border and asylum policy, then the MSZP will also be a partner. However, we strongly reject any cooperation, if only this time they want to continue the war of freedom against the Union in Orbán, and their real aim is to torpedo every proposal for action in Europe. If, instead of united EU action, the sharing of Fidesz policy in Europe prevails, there will soon be wire fences between the current Member States of the European Union. In this case, it is feared that not only the Hungarian-Croatian border, but also the Hungarian-Austrian border will once again have an iron curtain. The decision is in your hands, my honourable members of the Government. We're waiting for your answers. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-22-8	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-10-22-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before we speak of the proposal we are discussing, two rapid reactions have been made. On behalf of the MSZP, my fellow Member has said that if we were to take joint border surveillance in Hungary, we would certainly take note of this with great protest. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that this has been done for a long time in the case of Greece, because Greece itself has requested that the EU's common border defence organisation Frontex itself monitor and assist border protection. Thus, the second serious claim of the MSZP is that, in fact, it threatens that if we do not suspend the Dublin Convention, nearly 200,000 people who have registered in Hungary can be deported back to Hungary. I must say, my fellow Member, that you know that this is obviously not the case; because most of these people have entered the Union, at least through Greece. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: It doesn't matter!]] [[9.10]] And because Greece has failed to fulfil its obligations and has not registered these people, of course it cannot benefit from this. So, if this were to be a repatriation, then, obviously, these people should not be deported to Hungary, but to Greece. Although the current debate is basically... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Just don't try it.]] A quick reaction is also: although the current debate is basically about the report of the Committee on European Affairs and the subsidiarity assessment included therein, I still think that we need to step back, and because of the European Commission's proposal, we also need to talk about its root cause, the modern-day migration. And if we do so, we should mention three things: first of all, our position in principle on mass illegal immigration, then the proposal from the European Commission, the content of which is actually about the compulsory quota, and third of the procedure by the European Commission. [[Several MSZP representatives are leaving the meeting room. Lajos Kósa: Where, where?]] So, starting with the problem itself, perhaps the leaders of Europe agree on one thing: that modern-day migration has put the European Union and its countries at a challenge that they have never seen before, which is justified by the idleness of EU leaders to this day. And as a parentheses note - and I regret that our MSZP colleagues just left the room - it is worth mentioning that mass immigration as a problem is now recognised and seen by all major leaders of Europe, and it was only the Hungarian Socialist Party that issued a declaration two weeks ago that immigration was not a problem but a false problem. [[Anita Herring: That's not true! That's not true.]] I want you to take a look at your own announcement. [[Anita Herring: You have to understand what you're saying! Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] We can safely say that the Hungarian government was among the first to perceive the gravity of the problem. Since the political principle of our party alliance is to ask people's opinions on the most important issues affecting the country, the government, Fidesz-KDNP, has launched a consultation, more than a million people have expressed their views, which clearly revealed that according to the Hungarian people, the primary task is to protect the country. In view of this, the KDNP's position in principle on mass immigration has remained unchanged ever since. We believe that Europe has lost sight of its own Christian identity and needs to find itself again in order to ensure that the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It can survive and continue to succeed in the global race of the century. This process is not helped by people of different cultures flooding our continent in an uncontrolled way. Therefore, we continue to say that all other things are preceded by the fact that the countries of the Union can control the processes again, in Hungarian, they can defend their own borders, the Schengen borders. We're a long way from that for now. For example, two weeks ago 300 illegal immigrants took a train to Munich at the Vienna train station, but only 150 arrived, landed on the road, many of them still do not know where they are. So today, at European level, we do not know exactly how many illegal immigrants there are in Europe, exactly where they first crossed the EU border, and in many cases we do not even know where these people are now. As long as we do not take control, we will talk about any early quotas, especially compulsory quotas. It is worth noting here that almost only Hungary, of the countries that hold the Schengen border, can fulfil its obligations in this regard. In spite of the opposition and many others, the Hungarian temporary security barrier is in operation. At the same time, it is a good sign that more and more leaders share the position of the Hungarian Government, which has been said for months, that our borders should be protected first. For example, it is enough to mention the plenary session in the European Parliament two weeks ago, where the French President pointed out just the same in his speech. And we cannot go without saying that the V4 countries have once again shown solidarity with each other in this matter, thanks to which today Hungarian borders are protected by, among other things, Czech and Slovak authorities. It is also important to clarify in this regard that we regard the right to human life, the right to security and the preservation of human dignity as fundamental human rights on the basis of a Christian Democrat, and therefore Hungary will always protect political refugees who save their lives - this sentence may have even more weight on the first day of October 23. However, we must also say that the large numbers of illegal immigrants are not in this category, because their lives are not in immediate danger; they are on the road for a better, perhaps easier life, risking the lives of their families and supporting criminal groups involved in smuggling. For them, the mandatory quota, which is the subject of the Commission proposal, is a strong call, another invitation from Europe. However, we must say that the right to prosperity is not a fundamental human right, so that Europe cannot and cannot want to give it to everyone. In fact, we must say that this would not even be fair, because for today's European prosperity, the people and their predecessors have worked hard, and it would be unfair for an immigrant to have this without performance. For example, we cannot agree with DK's absurd proposal to oblige local authorities to renovate their apartments, move the people who live in them, and give the liberated apartments to the immigrants who are admitted. We believe that this is a complete misinterpretation of European solidarity. The KDNP still does not see the solution in the mandatory quota, but in the six-point proposal of Viktor Orbán, also mentioned by MEP Lajos Kósa, on the protection of European borders, the separation of refugees and economic migrants and closer cooperation with countries operating refugee camps near Syrian and other crisis centres. As far as the content of the Commission proposal is concerned, it should be noted that it does not fit into the political innovations that have provided European prosperity over the past 60 years - and then I put it very gently. Such political innovation for success was, for example, the creation of the Union itself, closer cooperation between European countries or the development of a model of a social market economy. We believe that if the mandatory quota was introduced, this quota system would not ensure the success of Europe, but would provide another strong signal of the crisis in the Union, and we cannot accept it. And obviously, as Mr Kósa said, we do not need to be an expert to say that the compulsory quota violates not only the sovereignty of the Member States, but is also unrespectable. To date, the proposers have not been able to provide a sober, acceptable and operational explanation for how they would persuade displaced immigrants to stay in a country designated to them and not to go immediately to the country, Germany or other countries they wish to move freely. But obviously we have a problem not only with the compulsory quota, but also with the European Commission's over-extensive powers assigned to itself, which has been described in detail by our fellow Member Richard Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs. It is proposed that if the sudden influx of third-country nationals becomes so high as to justify the publication of the crisis situation, it can in fact be said that all Member States' and EU institutions' right of intervention will be reduced to zero, since everything would fall into the hands of the European Commission, from the application of the mechanism to the adoption of the necessary measures, to the distribution key of the persons to be relocated, i.e. the allocation on the basis of the compulsory quota. [[9.20]] In our view, with this proposal, the European Commission is clearly exceeding its powers as defined by the Treaties, not only to the Member States, but also to the European Council and the European Parliament. Moreover, we have a problem in principle with Brussels bureaucrats having all the responsibilities and opportunities to deal with the migration crisis instead of elected representatives. Therefore, KDNP supports and agrees with the proposal of the Parliament Committee on European Affairs before us, as well as with the findings of the subsidiarity assessment. I think that by adopting the proposal for a decision, we can make an important signal to the European Commission, and we can present a certain yellow card. I think this is particularly important because the latest news shows that Brussels bureaucrats want to go further than the mandatory quota. The Financial Times has just written that the European Commission is planning a major resettling from the beginning of next year, i.e. a resettlement programme, in which it intends to allocate another 200,000 immigrants among the Member States, but not those already present here, but directly the residents of the refugee camps in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, and to distribute them on the basis of the mandatory quota allocation key. In conclusion, the issue of the mandatory quota for KDNP is a priority because it raises the most important question concerning our country: does Hungary have the right to choose who and in what form it wants to live with? We cannot interpret the European Commission's proposal as a "no" response. However, we are responding to this question in the affirmative, and we therefore support the proposal for a decision before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-22-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Jobbik supports the launch of the yellow flat procedure for the quota system. I have expressed my opinion on this at the last meetings of the Committee on European Affairs, and I have also expressed my view that I am skeptical that this procedure itself will ultimately lead to results, as I would like to remind my fellow Members that when the European Public Prosecutor's Office was subjected to a yellow flat procedure under pressure from Member States' parliaments, the European Commission has left the original proposal unchanged and has ignored the views of the chambers. I can only trust that this will not happen in this case and that we will be able to put enough pressure on EU leaders to really withdraw this totally unacceptable idea. Jobbik has been a very constructive approach to immigration over the last few months. We have not had a moment of debate about supporting government and government initiatives that point towards solving the issue, and, of course, we have done so here in Parliament at every vote, of course, we have also said our own proposals in order to bring us closer to the substantive repression of immigration. What we have been thinking about in this case is that it is a national matter, and therefore we have fully backed up our party political interests by supporting the third Orbán government in this direction. However, I would also like to remind you that, from the government side, the position has not always seemed clear in the past, because, for example, a statement from our fellow Member, Zsolt Németh, has been made that if we are to be forced to do so at EU level, Hungary should accept it. We have pointed out these contradictions on each occasion, and we are going to shine a light on them, and we hope that the result will eventually be that such positions will be pushed into the background and will actually go through this path. Because unfortunately, we can remember cases where there were loud statements in the Parliament, and then later at the European Council, the Prime Minister expressed himself in the opposite way, so I hope that this will not happen in this case. For example, I would like to refer back to the question of the fiscal pact. Then we saw that right here in the pulpit, Mr Orbán said that support for the British position should be considered, and then a few weeks later he did not agree with this question. For us better people, it has not been a question for a moment that we firmly reject the quota system itself, whether it is an EU quota or a world quota, which Mr.Orbán was talking about. We believe that the idea of this does not point to a meaningful solution. Several people here referred to the national consultation of the pro-government speakers. We believe that it was a waste of money in this case, as we have expressed this opinion about the poster campaign. Nevertheless, it was clear that we knew what we knew ourselves, because we keep in touch with the voters, during public forums, reception hours and other occasions, that the vast majority of Hungarian society strongly reject immigration, and therefore, this is the opinion of the population on the quota system. It can also be seen that the opinions of the leaders of some EU Member States have changed over the past period, have become more nuanced, and fortunately, there are more and more people who see the dangers of increasing immigration and the wave of migration. We believe that a referendum at EU level could also be held on this issue, asking European citizens, in this way, for what is their position on this matter, because we can see that we are now facing serious demonstrations against immigration in the West; and what is glad to see that there is a kind of cooperation at Central European level on the one hand, on the other hand, that the immune system of society is still strong enough, and in this way I am optimistic that we will be able to resist this increasingly challenging pressure on migration, because we can see that it is far from over and that we can face even more serious difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, The breach of the principle of subsidiarity is clear in this case, and it is therefore very important that we draw up this reasoned opinion, but we also need to see that, apart from the fact that opinions are indeed changing from some Heads of Government, that the European Union itself has not taken any meaningful steps towards a solution in recent years. During the various discussions, much has been said, proposals have been made, but no real steps have been taken. Unfortunately, I am of the opinion that, in fact, EU leaders do not want a meaningful solution to the issue of immigration. And as I have already referred to it, I am very skeptical about whether the reasoned opinion of the national parliaments of the Member States will be taken into account, because when this procedure started in the European Public Prosecutor's Office at the end of 2013 and we conducted this debate here, in the Hungarian Parliament, as we have now, there was no result. [[9.30]] A Dutch study also wrote at the end of last year that, unfortunately, the yellow flat procedure did not fulfill the hopes that many people had attached to it. So this strengthens our skepticism. By the way, my opinion and Jobbik's position is that the red flat procedure should be introduced. I also spoke at the last COSAC meeting in Riga in this context. On issues that clearly violate national self-determination, nation-state sovereignty, it is in this way that Parliaments in Member States should be given the opportunity to present a red card and to clearly reject proposals of a similar nature that are meaty. Of course, what we can see - and it is not surprising to us, national radicals - is that EU leaders do not want to hear about it. It is also important to find partners in this matter. I have referred to the cooperation of the Visegrád Four, although the unity was not complete here, as the Poles did not, after all, express a firm opinion on the quota system as the other V4 countries, of course, this can be explained with many things, even with the electoral campaign, but unfortunately this was the case. I can trust that not only at V4, Central European level, but also at other EU countries, we can act more decisively on this issue, for example in the Baltic area. So I hope that you will finally hear our voice on this issue. It is important that as many national parliaments as possible, chambers, join this initiative. There is a lot of talk about the numbers that arise in relation to the quota system, the 40,000, and the 120,000 in this case, that there is no limit after all. But the most important thing on this issue is that this system is not a solution to problems, it has long gone beyond that. Our view is that we must declare zero tolerance to immigration, that if similar ideas are formulated in the mind of EU leaders, we will only send invitations to those who believe that they would imagine their future in Europe in the hope of a better life. Yes, it is important to talk about this, because we Jobbiks also claim as a national Christian party that those who have actually fled must be helped. But it is important to see that at least 80 percent are not refugees in this case, but economic immigrants, who in many cases also state which country is not good enough for them; Germany is not good enough; Sweden is not good enough; they find problems everywhere: there is no wifi, but the weather is not as expected. I think that these opinions, which have been formulated at this time, are absolutely amazing. But the most important thing is that we do not try to open the EU's doors even further with such proposals, but we do take every possible step to protect the Schengen borders. It must, of course, be acknowledged that steps have been taken on this issue from the government side with regard to the southern border closure. However, it would be important to consider the proposals made by Jobbik to do so, and I am thinking here about restoring the independent border guard, because this is the only way to provide real protection against the wave that will continue to grow, since migration has not calmed down at all, and we can see developments in this regard. Speaking of the quota system, it should also be said that, of course, there is a very complicated formula for how they intend to distribute immigrants. But it is not clear at all who will decide who wants to go to which country, what the immigrants themselves will say - as I pointed out that Germany is no longer suitable for anyone - that they will want to settle in any Central European country on what basis this distribution will take place. I have fears that, on the part of the Western countries, the basic position is that immigrants who are more qualified and have language skills are kept with them and will try to redirect them back to Central Europe for whom this is not true, and this will cause us further serious problems and social tensions in the event that this happens. That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that this is not the case. We have said on numerous occasions that we represent the concept of a Europe of nations, as opposed to the steps towards the united states of Europe, because if we look back over the past years, we can see that, unfortunately, the Community has clearly started in this direction. Immigration is an issue which must remain the responsibility of the Member States. This does not mean, of course, that there is no need for cooperation at European level, and it is indeed welcome that this initiative was launched by the Visegrád Four, and that we have had a very positive attitude, whether from the Czechs or from Slovaks in this case. This joint action is therefore important, but it is even more important that we are able to take the measures that are sufficient to protect Hungary by maintaining our sovereignty as a nation state, because you rightly refer to the fact that, yes, people have decided that the country must be protected. At the recent meeting of the OSCE in Ulanbátor, I spoke about the increasing threat of terrorism in Europe as a result of immigration, and unfortunately this threat is also threatening our country, as we can see the continued expansion of the Islamic State. I have referred to the fact that we cannot decide who of the immigrants who really are fleeing and who, in this way, needs help, who is an immigrant and who, if any, is a terrorist and potential threat to our country. That is why we say very firmly that zero tolerance is the only solution in this case. I think it is important to highlight with regard to the report, the report and the proposal for a decision that we do not submit an amendment to this because the members of the Committee on European Affairs have done a very good job, and they have put together this proposal professionally very well, for which they deserve all the recognition, and therefore thanks to those involved in the preparatory work in order to initiate the yellow flat procedure. Returning to the proposal, the government's position and Jobbik's opinion: I ask the government and the government parties to stand firm on this issue to the end. For example, we have fears about the role that the refugee camps that have been opened in Hungary over the last few months will play in the future. I am thinking, for example, of the camp in Körmend and Szentgotthárd, which are located in my constituency. Fortunately, there have been no problems in these two settlements in recent years, but I have fears that if immigrants are deported, then these camps, which are called collection points, registration points, will play a different role. Unfortunately, at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs at which the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Mrs Simonné Berta Krisztina, was present, I was not given a satisfactory answer to these points. I hope this will not happen, but we have also stood very firmly at local level in recent months, because we have fears that if there are any more border locks to the west of us, if the deportation is to be strengthened, then these so-called registration points will indeed play a different role. Once again, I would like to point out that we should consider the proposals that are improving, which are aimed at really taking a meaningful stand against population migration, so that, alongside the border lock, there would be a need for an independent border guard, so that we can defend our borders even more effectively and physically, because what is really a problem is that, now that there have been transfers, police forces are in a very small number of settlements, and this could be a public security problem. And we are asking the government to stand on every possible forum. This yellow flat procedure is expected to start, and I have already voiced my skepticism, but if it will fail and it will not fulfill the hopes that many people attach to it, it is also important that our opinions in other forums are constantly clear and we collect as many partners as possible. [[9.40]] Jobbik will do this, as we will voice our position in the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the COSAC meetings, the European-level meetings of the committees on European affairs, here in Parliament and in other places, and we will call on the Government for consistency on this issue. If, on the other hand, they are going to go through this path, we naturally welcome it, we welcome it, and we think that this should be done in the interests of our citizens, Hungarians. In this case, the question cannot be that we will ensure the national unity in this matter, as we have already done. I therefore ask you to really go down this path, and, of course, we can support this proposal on our part. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-22-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Let me start with the point: the LMP faction supports the Parliament's initiative to revise the EU proposal governing the distribution of asylum seekers in general. We want a single European quota system to be implemented, but this must be a durable, predictable, secure procedure. The sooner it turns out that the system proposed by the Union is operational, the more risks we exclude, the more we can say that the European Union is finally catching up with the problem and is finally beginning to deal with the refugee crisis. Although it has not come before the House today, I would also like to say that the LMP also supports the granting of refugee status in Hungary to those who can arrive here within the framework of the already adopted EU mechanism. We believe that the solution to the refugee wave must be both humane and safe. Humane in the sense that there are some refugees that we have a duty to take into consideration in the spirit of humanity. However, the safe solution must not only be in their best interest: we must maintain a delicate balance in order to serve those for whom we are here in this House. We must guarantee the safety and security of the people who live here, because the situation of refugees can only be improved if those who provide protection are also interested. In order for the quota system to be a sensible solution, two conditions must be met in our opinion. Firstly, it is necessary to establish a sound procedure that will be unattractive in the future. Once the European Union has dealt with the situation, the procedures should no longer be subject to politically motivated attacks, mainly based on internal political interests. We hope that the outcome of the procedure will therefore be two: a quota system that has been proven to be consistent with the interests of the Member States and the EU, while eliminating politically motivated attacks. Another condition for the quota system to be operational is that it will not be the only instrument in our hands. From the outset, LMP has said that we need a common European solution, a solution that is not only a sensible solution at the end of the process, but also at the root of the problem. I could say that the government is right, that the quota system is not the answer. Of course not in itself, but unlike the LMP, the government no longer talks about the need for it, together with other measures. We need to meet two conflicting requirements: we need to find a solution as soon as possible, but we need to find a solution that will withstand the test of time and the pressure of the refugee wave, so it doesn't matter what quota mechanism will enter into force. We know the European Union, it reacts slowly, it makes it hard to move, and it makes it even more difficult to modify what it has already reached a compromise on. Imagine what would happen if the quota system, which is very difficult to accept, but not perfect, unattractive and stand alone, were to be modified. Of course, there is no perfect solution, but we must strive to be as sure as possible of the institution that we trust to address a serious challenge of our time. The LMP also supports the preliminary examination of the EU quota system, which regulates the distribution of asylum seekers in general, because we believe that the European Union mechanism, the common solution, will only work if the national parliaments, i.e. the European electorate, including the Hungarian electorate, agree to it indirectly through their representatives. We expect the review that it will not only make the quota system more robust, but also increase its legitimacy, and increase its support for those who are destined to make decisions in Europe alone, who are nothing more than citizens of the EU. I stress that the aim of the review is not to prevent the quota system, but to prevent it from becoming operational and supported as soon as it enters into force. Without European citizens, including Hungarian citizens, they will not be able to deal with the refugee crisis. Dear Parliament, The government wants to throw out the quota system, and the LMP wants to make sure it's operational. The government wants to permanently abolish the quota by the procedure, but the LMP wants it to operate after the procedure. During the refugee crisis, the LMP rejected the irresponsible policy of many actors in domestic and European policies. We consider hysteria irresponsible, and we also consider it irresponsible to ignore the growing concern for their safety in Europe and Hungary. There is no room for stubbornness in this case, no room for more fences, no political tactics, only sound, prudent and supported measures as widely as possible. We believe that the beginning of the process and the end of the process must be treated at the same time. We are no good at handling the refugee wave in Europe, if we do nothing to alleviate it, perhaps we will also eliminate the root causes. Many believe that restoring peace in the Middle East is sufficient to eliminate the causes, making Syria operational. However, we think we need to look further. Suppose, because we must believe that it is possible to create peace, it is possible to provide a home for refugees once again so that they are not forced to leave the place where they were born, but that would not solve the problem yet. For once, now that the outside world has become so tangible, let us finally talk about the fact that war is not the cause of the refugee crisis, because chaos in the Middle East is itself a consequence. What, then, are the real reasons? First of all, it is quite clear that this is a drastic process launched by global inequalities which are increasing due to neoliberal policy and economic elite. It has been proven that one half of the world cannot be used unpunished to the benefit of the other; it is not possible to sacrifice the countries of periphery to feed the central countries. Sooner or later, the unsustainable economy will avenge itself, eventually leading to the world being eviscerated and used as an instrument, as a playground for powers, running out of hope and patience. If, after that, the personal security of those living there is not guaranteed by anyone and nothing, but even by the destruction of war, without any tangible hope of a meaningful solution, then it is clear how much conflict is stacked together. And that's not even the whole picture. Over the last few weeks, the expression "escaped air conditioning" has been repeated more and more. It seems to have taken the wave of migration to make everyone see it: if we do not treat our own environment carefully, if we do not pay attention to the fact that climate change is not a distant problem, only a crisis that threatens the far future, but a disaster that affects our lives here and now, we will not be able to deal with the refugee crisis as a matter of substance. [[9.50]] If there's nothing to eat, if there's no drinking water, because the world is destroying the environment, then escape becomes the only way out. As a politician committed to sustainability, it is reassuring to face the fact that what we have always talked about has become a reality. This is the case where, as a politician, I have to say that I wish it had turned out that I was wrong, but unfortunately that is not the case. Climate refugees are already among those fleeing the war. We can talk about the fact that there are tens of thousands of economic refugees coming, but that just covers the problem. Therefore, we say that it is not enough to grasp only the end of the process. Dear House, The solution to the refugee crisis can only be envisaged if a complex action plan is implemented. Neither the fence nor the border seal alone nor the refugee quota alone is a solution, just as there would be little to improve the situation of Turkish refugee camps. At the same time, the situation of potential refugees already in the territory of the European Union, already on the move and living in crisis zones, should be improved. The LMP has prepared a 24-point package of proposals because we believe that parallel implementation of the measures contained therein can only be a solution to the current crisis. In our opinion, first of all, we must not forget the necessary measures at home, because Hungary has not solved the problem by pulling up two fences. We continue to believe that capacity building is needed in several areas. As a first step, we would increase the budget of the Immigration and Nationality Office from HUF 8.9 billion to HUF 25 billion. Without a significant increase in the budget of the BÁH, Hungary will not be able to comply with its obligations under international treaties in a humane way that guarantees human rights and without disruptions to the public. We have drawn attention many times before to the fact that police personnel are not sufficient to complete the tasks entrusted to them. In the current situation, the military deployment is not the real solution, but the immediate implementation of the expansion of at least 3,000 police personnel, previously announced by the government. The need for border protection is likely to persist in the longer term, so that occasional solutions cannot be arranged. Not least, Hungary would also need to increase the amount of international development resources. While, at the level of words, the government also talks about the fact that the only real solution could be that refugees would not be forced to leave their homeland, while the budget only spends HUF 23 million on the international development strategy for this purpose, while the Czech Republic spends HUF 10 billion a year on the same thing. We believe that it is not enough to talk about dealing with conflicts outside the EU, but to do something about it. The party therefore submitted an amendment to both this year's and next year's budgets, which would increase the amount of money that could be spent on achieving the goals of the international development strategy to HUF 10 billion. At the same time, it is worth talking about what needs international cooperation in the context of this proposal as well. We believe that there is a need to create a system of rules for the distribution of refugees between Member States according to size and economic power, in which the United States and Canada must play their part, because Hungary is forced to take a greater part in the crisis that is actually affecting Europe, primarily because of its geographical location. We therefore think that the government's strategy to reject the EU solution is completely wrong, as it only makes Hungary's engagement more permanent than expected. The quota system is in our country's interest. According to the LMP, the quota system should first be agreed within the European Union, but it also has a role to play in the United States and Canada, because they have a responsibility to deal with the refugee crisis and therefore have an obligation to take part in it. At the same time, it is essential for the functioning of the quota system to standardise the asylum procedure in Europe and to build up the asylum application system from a common European source and on the basis of common European regulations. We also believe that it is also necessary to establish transit stations and hotspots operated from a common EU source and controlled by the Union so that the registration of refugees is uniform and organised throughout the EU. The LMP supports the establishment of such camps outside the EU through EU funding, EU law enforcement and the involvement of the UN. Single European action today makes it impossible for individual Member States to classify some countries differently as safe or unsafe. Single European action can only be envisaged if, as a first step, Member States categorize the non-EU Member States affected by the refugee crisis and adopt or reject asylum applications on the basis of uniform principles. Without this, neither the quota system nor the single European asylum procedure will work. The management of the refugee crisis should start beyond the borders of the European Union, so NATO can be expected to actively participate in the defence of the camps in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon that host millions of people. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees is in an increasingly difficult situation, currently missing 2-3 billion dollars from its budget. Without this being replaced, the situation in Turkish and Lebanese refugee camps can deteriorate dramatically and the migratory pressure to the Union may continue to increase. Finally, we believe that the current refugee crisis can only be dealt with permanently by removing the reasons why millions are forced to leave their homes. According to the LMP, both the United States and the European Union have a heavy responsibility for the situation, and a joint international development strategy with the European Union and the US is needed to provide targeted support to countries that trigger the wave of refugees. Dear Parliament, I have not gone about global inequality in the quota system by accident, the situation of climate refugees and the sound implementation of the EU's proposals for solutions, supported by the people who live here. From the outset, the LMP was right to vote in favour of adopting and operating a package that was responsible for hysteria, which dealt with the problem in a complex way. There's no miracle drug, that's not the policy of open gates, and that's not the policy of fences. It is not a solution if we only manage the end of the process, but the quota system alone is not enough, but the quota system is still a necessary condition for resolving the refugee crisis. It's not the only condition, but it's still necessary. If this vote were to be about whether the LMP would support the launch of the quota system, we would vote in favour. The decision that we take on our part this time is that we consider the EU quota system to be necessary, but not sufficient. However, we would like it to be revealed that it is in this form that it will pass the test. We would like to consider whether, without built-in brakes, the procedure is acceptable, whether the additional steps needed for the ceilingless mechanism will be caught up. According to the LMP, a common European solution is needed. Each Member State is helpless on its own, with the maximum capacity to relieve symptoms, and only for a period of time. The time for spectacular but superficial solutions is over, and now we finally need responsible steps. It would be good if the government didn't finally act at the last minute if it was finally prepared for what was coming, and it didn't prove its importance by hitting everyone in a big voice. The indecisive EU and the tactical Orbán government are sure recipes for failure. We are opposed to a responsible, humane and safe common European solution. That is why we have drawn up our package of proposals and therefore we demand that we act at the same time as possible at all stages of the problem. Thank you for your attention. [[10.00]]
u2015-10-22-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to State Secretary László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-22-15	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Members, Thank you so much for the opportunity. Hungary is an example of the fact that the dramatic migratory pressure and the pressure that we face in the Member States to protect the Schengen borders can be met, and Hungary has done well in this challenge. No one doubts that, in proportion to the population and GDP, Hungary may have done these tasks with the greatest forces in the EU Member States, and the Hungarian position does not in any way make us any less European, even on the contrary. The fact that modern-day migration is one of Europe's most serious crises is becoming more and less doubtful, and it is also clear that the problem must be solved at its roots. The mandatory quota, which the Commission has just proposed here, is clearly a false solution to the problem, will not solve the problem at its root. And the fact that the European Commission wants to establish a compulsory quota system by breaking common rules based on the will of the Member States is unacceptable. I am very pleased that you have agreed with this fundamental fact here in the speech of all the key speakers, and I feel that a very serious national unity will be established in this story. We're very happy to hear that. The will of the Member States, which is the foundation of the Union, would be achieved by refusing Member States if this compulsory quota system was adopted by the European Union. This is not only in Hungary's interest, but also in the European Union's interest. For this reason, on the part of the government, we fully support the fact that the Hungarian Parliament, taking the right of democratic control of parliaments under EU treaties, objects to the compulsory quota system. Hungary should protest not only at government level, but on all possible European Union channels, and, of course, the Hungarian Parliament, which is closest to the Hungarian people, must also oppose this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This would be the next speech by the independent Members, but no Member has arrived, and Mrs Szabó Timea has indicated earlier that she wishes to speak. We will now continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to President Richard Hörcsik, the rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond very briefly to one of the points raised by my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, which concerns the essence of the proposal. My fellow Member is asking the government or Fidesz, as a matter of fact, that we want to maintain the Dublin regulation. Well, if you're accusing us, you're not doing this to us in the first place, but to the European Council in the first place. I have in my hand a press release after the European Council meeting on 23 September, which states:. In the measure we have all to uphold, apply and implement our existing rules, including the Dublin regulation and the Schengen acquis. This means that the European Council states that the regulations currently in force must be maintained and implemented, thus making particular mention of the Dublin rules and the Schengen regime. Therefore, the Dublin Regulation cannot be suspended at the moment. It needs a review, everyone says that, but the question is how. And here is the point of our committee's proposal that what the Commission wants is wrong in the proposal that Dublin III cannot be replaced by a permanent quota mechanism. This violates national sovereignty and violates subsidiarity. So it does not provide a precise solution, but rather an escalation of the migration crisis. The European Council thus stated earlier in the regulation and confirmed at the summit that Schengen is in place for the time being and that Dublin III is in place. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Another question is how you want to change it, not in the right way. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-22-19	Mr President, Dear House, Several times in the lead speakerial round, it was said that quota was not the solution, that the fence was not supposed to be the solution. The fact is that it would be worth clarifying certain kinds of positions regarding the quota, since it is obvious that the distribution of quotas is not only futuristic, but also quite simply lifeless. Obviously, it would be worth clarifying where the front lines are along the line between the pro-quotas and the anti-quotas. We would very much like you to clarify how you intend to bring these people to Hungary on the basis of a quota, and keep them in Hungary. After all, if someone, say, in Germany, wants to join his kinship, his village community in an enclave, and then they tell him to come to Nyírbátor's appearance on a quota basis - I just gave him a very disoriented example - and he will be accommodated in an old-fashioned residential park, then how will that happen. How are they gonna force him to stay there? Do they give him real estate with Hungarian taxpayers' money or jobs? How long do you imagine all this? How do you expect to spread out by quota? This is where references were made to yes, to distribute tens of thousands of people by quota, but then, when their fate is settled in the country of origin, go home. Well, that is not what the EU directives are about. That is not what the EU quota system is about. The EU quota system does point towards permanent resettlement, which is why Jobbik shows zero tolerance to all similar ideas. But we would very much like you to clarify the quota at any level for how you imagine this system, and how you would keep these people here for the rest of your life. They would obviously also attempt to exploit them in the labour market, but how would they imagine that? And in addition to the fact that Jobbik is on the side of zero tolerance, in order for this debate to be serious, we do consider it important that these questions be answered. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2015-10-22-21	Thank you. I'd like to ask Richard Hörcsik a question first. If the EU summit confirmed Dublin III, as you said, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is sitting there, then how could that be? If you had time to answer that question, we would thank you. I would also like to say a few sentences to my fellow Member, Mr István Hollik. I'm sorry he's not in the room anymore. But I think that as a Catholic Member of the KDNP, who graduated from the Piarist High School, he should take the moderate position and not go along with the hatred of the Fidesz-KDNP government, what they are doing on the refugee issue. It should also be said that the fact that my fellow Member is giving communications into the mouth of the MSZP fraction that were not there and that many times they say that they will not yet be true. I think you need to think about what you're saying and take a more moderate, more humane position with a KDNP representative against the Fides. Only because if you listen to or read the words of Pope Francis, I would quote that literally. He said that we should treat others with the same passion and compassion as we would want to be treated. And another quote from the Pope, which must be accepted by all Fidesz and KDNP representatives: people are not things that can only be thrown away if disturbed. Immigrants must be treated in a humane and just, more fraternal way. My fellow Members, please accept these words. I think as a Catholic girl, I can agree with those words, I'm sorry that this is a laughing stock for you. Thank you.
u2015-10-22-22	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech was submitted by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-10-22-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To the quota, a few thoughts. My fellow Member, Mr Carpathian, spoke to the pro-quota. The LMP constantly says that the quota alone is not a solution, so it should be part of a complex package of measures. [[10.10]] But then you can also ask the question in reverse: how do non-quotaers imagine that there are refugees to be treated humanely and in a helpful way, that in the spirit of zero tolerance, everyone who has come into the territory of the European Union will now be turned back? So the question can be asked the other way around. We believe that the quota system is an important tool for management, for symptomatic treatment, but it is not enough in itself, it only uses it and is part of the package of solutions if all the other elements are there, such as trying to resolve the conflict as soon as possible in places where there is a conflict zone so that people can live in their homes and not be forced to go to other countries. For example, there is a need to continue to take steps to ensure that refugee camps in Turkey, Lebanon, are as close as possible to their place of residence, so that they can go back later if the problem is solved. We therefore consider it necessary in the present situation, but of course it is not a solution in itself, and it is not enough without the other measures.
u2015-10-22-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by the Members who have been notified in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-22-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable President and fellow Members, I would like to quote paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article E of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which defines the attitude and position of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group on this matter. Article E (2) of the Fundamental Law reads as follows: "Hungary may exercise, on the basis of an international contract for its participation in the European Union as a Member State, some of its powers under the Fundamental Law, together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union, to the extent necessary for the exercise of the rights and obligations arising from the founding contracts. And paragraph 3 of the same article reads: "The law of the European Union may, within the framework of paragraph 2 of this Article, lay down a general mandatory code of conduct. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In our view, the Commission's proposal in question cannot be supported because the Government of Hungary would infringe Article E (2) of the Fundamental Law. It is true, of course, that the law of the European Union can lay down a mandatory code of conduct, which all Hungarian citizens and Hungarian institutions must comply with, but only within the framework of Article E (2) of the aforementioned Fundamental Law, the corresponding legislation can be a mandatory code of conduct in Hungary. That is to simplify the situation: it is necessary to comply with the criterion that this intervention is necessary only for the exercise of the rights and obligations arising from the founding contracts to Hungarian sovereignty, and, on the other hand, to maintain to the end that Hungary has not given up its sovereignty when adopting the European Union's legislation for itself, but to exercise certain powers arising from the Fundamental Law together with the other Member States through the European institutions. So if this legislation were in line with the criteria, it would be eligible, regardless of what we think of it. On the contrary, we do not agree with the solution, which is what our group leader Lajos Kósa said, why we reject the so-called quota regulation for reasons of substance, but in our view this solution is also contrary to the Basic Law. According to the Committee on European Affairs, this is literally the reason, Article 78 (2) (e) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not an appropriate legal basis for establishing a crisis relocation mechanism. Action by the Union could be ensured in particular on the basis of Article 352 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Well, I would like to support this justification on the part of our faction. The legal basis for the European Commission's proposal, which is essentially to amend the so-called Dublin Regulation, is Article 78 (2) (e) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides that the European Parliament and the Council, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall lay down measures to establish a common European asylum system, including the criteria and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for asylum or subsidiary protection. This provision is also the legal basis for the so-called Dublin Regulation. The amendment, proposed by the Commission, therefore, provides for a permanent derogation from the rules of the Dublin Regulation by introducing the so-called crisis and crisis relocation mechanism, but is not authorised to do so by Article 78 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The EU legislator may only adopt legislation for the purposes and in the procedural order laid down in certain Articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, subject to the objectives and provisions of the Lisbon Treaty, in particular Article 5 (2) of the founding Treaty of the EU, according to which the Union acts only within the limits of the powers conferred on it by the Member States in the Treaties. Such a new legal institution could only be established under the procedure laid down in Article 352 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Well, among the reasons for the position of the Committee on European Affairs, the following is the reason that the 33/A contained in the proposal. Article 78 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU gives the European Commission exclusive powers to determine and activate the crisis mechanism, while Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU confers powers on the Council in the event of an emergency. The draft regulation introduces the concept of a crisis situation to which the European Commission, unlike the Council, is empowered to deal, while at the same time avoiding the decoupling of the crisis situation from the emergency situation under Article 78 (3) of the EU Operational Treaty. In essence, the same phenomenon could be dealt with in two legal procedures. Accordingly, the proposal would confer on the European Commission, on a permanent basis, the powers of the Council in the event of an emergency which cannot be distinguished from a crisis. This would be contrary to Article 13 (2) of the EU founding Treaty, according to which individual institutions may operate within the limits of the powers conferred on them by the Treaties for the purposes of the procedures, conditions and objectives laid down therein. In other words, the proposal would detract from the Council's powers in favour of the Commission. It is justified to raise the element of necessity, which already includes the possibility of action during the migration crisis in Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. There is no justification for the need for a new mechanism, in particular by transferring powers from the Council of Member States' representatives to the Commission. Among the reasons given in the proposal for a decision, the reason for the proposal is that the power to exercise powers of the European Commission goes beyond the limitation provided for in Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. [[10.20]] This would result in an essentially automatic centralised procedure without consultation with the Member State or Member States concerned, without the Council's substantial involvement. The draft regulation would empower the Commission to adopt delegated acts in the interests of implementation, such as the establishment of a crisis situation, the application of the relocation mechanism, the imposition of measures, including the allocation of persons to be relocated by quota. These powers go beyond the limitation provided for in Article 290 of the EU Operational Treaty, according to which delegated legislation may supplement or amend certain non-essential provisions of legislative acts. Finally, the Committee on European Affairs states, among its reasons, that the Commission does not demonstrate to the satisfaction that, on the basis of the proposal, the possible application of the relocation crisis mechanism would result in a more effective procedure or additional value compared to the measures taken in the event of an emergency under Article 78 (3) of the EU Operational Treaty. The proposal also does not provide sufficient justification for the reasons why it was necessary to present it, taking into account the ongoing and expected overall assessment of Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 in 2016. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of the European Council, the Heads of State or Government have decided, in the face of the migration crisis, that the Dublin system should be reviewed, given that it has not been able to provide adequate solutions to the situation that has arisen in recent months. However, the Commission has not put forward its proposal for a new review system. There are indications that this will only be expected next year. It is therefore doubtful that the permanent relocation mechanism, which is at the heart of the proposal, should be discussed separately from the general review and sooner. On this basis, it is clear that the Commission's proposal would violate the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the sovereignty of Hungary, because it is quite clear that all powers which do not correspond to the founding treaties do not correspond to the EU's operating contract, with which the institutions of the European Union are essentially expanding beyond their competence, are necessarily in breach of the sovereignty of a Member State. Thus, in this case, our sovereignty is violated by the fact that the institutions of the European Union want extra rights for themselves, taking more powers than we Hungarians have authorized in Hungary's Fundamental Law. So I ask you to support, among other things, the proposal of the Committee on European Affairs, in addition to considering the quota system as a pointless and wrong decision in itself, also because the European Commission's proposal violates Hungary's sovereignty and violates the rules on cooperation between Hungary and the European Union set out in the Fundamental Law. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group.
u2015-10-22-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If I had been approached by Congresswoman Anita Heringes, I thought I would answer. There is always a discreet charm when our MSZP fellow Members refer to Pope Ferenc. [[Anita Herring: Why? What's wrong?]] It always makes me realize how right Joseph Antall, former Prime Minister, was when he said that even the atheist in Europe was a Christian. I would like to say, Congresswoman, that when quoting Pope Francis, do not forget to do so when it comes to the protection of the institution of marriage or the support of families. Then these arguments are usually forgotten. As regards your comment on immigration, about the humane nature of the ruling party's position, I would like to say once again what I mentioned in my speech as the lead speaker: of course, Hungary, Fidesz and KDNP protect all people whose lives are in danger. Human dignity is a fundamental human right, but economic immigrants, who are now talking about the largest number of people, are not in immediate danger of life. They go through safe countries, and at the same time we must say that the right to prosperity - because they are a human right because of well-being, because of the well-being they are experiencing here in Europe - is not a fundamental human right. That is why we cannot support the compulsory quota and we do not agree with the pro-immigration policy of the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Congresswoman Anita Heringes asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-29	Thank you very much. After feeling this attack in person, I can say, my fellow Member, that I was raised Catholic. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Order of business! Lajos Kósa: It's not a matter of order, it's two minutes!]] But this is personal, the order of business is personal assault, fellow Members, so I would like to point out that I was raised to be a Catholic girl. I've been ministricting for years, I'm a Catholic, and I keep my religion inside. From now on, do not question, my fellow Member, whether I am Catholic.
u2015-10-22-30	Madam Congresswoman, I have given you the opportunity for personal involvement, but I cannot consider it a point of order. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I've done this before.]]
u2015-10-22-31	Thank you so much for giving me the floor. That is why I wanted to say so much, and please do not take this style from your fellow Members at such a young age. Thank you.
u2015-10-22-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, on a point of order. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-10-22-33	Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to ask whether, in such a case, a two-minute comment disguised as the order of business, otherwise typical, consumes the possibility of a two-minute comment by the faction who is experimenting with it. If you consume it, the House will do the right thing, if not, then from now on, two-minute contributions will be made under the pretext of personal attack as a matter of order. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-34	Thank you. Mr. Head of Staff, my answer is this, the house rules are very clear. On a point of order, if the Member so requests, he may present his request in a moment. This was the case, and the explanatory statement no longer continued, so we cannot see it as a two-minute period, but in a minute, according to the house rules, every Member has the opportunity to say it, and then the explanatory statement, if the chairman does not consider it to be on the order of business, does not give us the opportunity. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will continue with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-35	Mr. President. Dear House, For the longest time in this House, we are hearing the MSZP argument that we should ask for a revision of the Dublin conventions, because that is the real solution. I would just like to remind everyone that, with the Dublin Protocols, the Union has had eight years before it was able to accept this in a political situation where there was no refugee crisis, when, by the way, the agreement between the Member States on this issue was much greater and the Union was unable, by the way, to jointly define the concept of a safe third country as a result of the Dublin Conventions. After three years of working together, the EU has thrown this issue back into national competence because it has been unable to resolve it. If someone concludes that, on the other hand, the revision of the Dublin Protocols is a fast process, then I think that they are seriously wrong. This is not a mistake for the MSZP, but that the MSZP is traditionally pro-immigration, as the whole European left is traditionally pro-immigration. They are indeed in the position to come to everyone, because immigration is seen as a good tool to solve different problems, and that is why false solutions are proposed. [[10.30]] The solution we are proposing, protecting the borders of the European Union, is not a fake solution. [[Dr. Tamás Bell Clap.]] Here is the Croatian-Hungarian [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Bravo!]] an example of the Serbian-Hungarian border. It's possible. And the fact that the head speaker of the MSZP, our fellow Member Bellozó, is not aware that the Greek borders are still protected by Frontex is simply indiscretion, even though he would know this because he is a member of the Commission. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Protecting borders, Louis?]] The other question is that the Greeks [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Are you protecting him or not protecting him?]] Those who should actually make the greatest contribution should be openly denied, otherwise breaking their obligations under the Schengen conventions. But this should not give Greece an advantage, and all immigrants going through them must be sent back to Greece. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-37	Mr President, Dear House, I do not feel attacked myself, which is why I would like to point out to my fellow Members that it would be appropriate to refrain from commenting on each other's personalities when it comes to a lady, especially since we should now make our position clear on this matter. Not only because Dublin's review - I have to agree with this - is an absolute symptomatic treatment, so with the root cause of the problem it does not start anything, but also because there is a strange bidding happening here in this House. There is an openly pro-immigration, let's say nasty: a migrant petting site, and there is another one that insists that, of course, humanity is very important. Some have said that we need to take care of incoming migrants. I would like to state what the tolerance of Jobbik zero means, because there was a question. The tolerance of Jobbik zero in this matter means that those arriving at our borders - namely illegally arriving, so we are still allowed - can be supplied with food and drink for a day or two while they are here, and should also be accommodated for this very short period of time. Obviously from a humane point of view, this is all that can be required, and real refugees, who may be 10 to 20 percent of the arrivals, if they are posted, deserve this help and form of support. But the bidding on each other is quite amazing as to who, how and how it would provide security to the arrivals. So we would like to say that we cannot accept neither housing nor resettlement nor any integration or unjustified social benefits. And this is the point where the government should also clarify why its educational policy policy-makers call the education of migrant children the biggest challenge in the near future, and how they could grant voting rights in their basic law, although only in special cases, it is true that only local elections, but migrants for whom the request has been accepted positively. In the case of zero tolerance, it means that we cannot accept any similar unjustified advantage. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2015-10-22-39	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to respond to Mr Kósa's two-minute comment. Congressman said that the Hungarian Socialist Party is Dublin III. a review of the system, and this is what he is asking for. I would like to say once again that it is not Dublin III. We would like to ask for a review. We claim a very simple but very firm statement: Dublin III. The system has failed, it is not good, it is not suitable for the life situation that is now reaching the European Union. This system is not suitable for dealing with this, and therefore the absolution, review, supplement, and small change of this system is, in our view, absolutely not a solution to the problem, the life situation that has just developed. So we're not trying to get Dublin III. Let's review the system, change it a little bit, add something, maybe take something. We believe that the European Union needs a completely new, radically different, completely different solution. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-22-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Richard Hörcsik has spoken. I would like to add one thing: as rapporteur, I would like to give the floor by asking my fellow Member, next time, to press the normal button as rapporteur, because that was the problem that he was pushing two minutes ago. You have the floor, please. Not in two minutes, but in a normal time frame, of course.
u2015-10-22-41	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is Dublin III. There's a lot of talking about a regulation. My fellow Member, Anita Heringes, asked whether Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was at the European Council meeting and what happened. Well, ask the Prime Minister about an immediate question. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Anita Beringes: She won't even tell you that!]] However, I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that the Dublin Regulation must be maintained because there is no other one, and the adoption of a new regulation will take at least a year, and it is not yet proposed to the European Commission to amend it. That's the problem. However, if the Union's statutes were to be adopted in accordance with the ordinary procedure 78. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, this is another year, and this proposal from the European Commission, which does not yet exist, could be subject to a yellow flat procedure. So you can see, my fellow Members, the problem is that Dublin III is overdue, and we agree on that - as my colleague Lajos Kósa said - but the fundamental problem is that the European Commission is acting like a lame duck. Not to propose a solution, but to set off on the wrong path, on a path that will interfere with subsidiarity, but to interfere with fundamental national rights. That's the other problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the written speeches announced in advance. I give the floor to Congressman Alpár Gyopáros, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When the Parliament held the debate in which for the first time it applied the yellow flat procedure on the subject of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, President Richárd Hörcsik said that we are witnesses or actors of a landmark in the history of law, we are essentially involved in a historical process, and we should be proud to have come this far, especially as the yellow flat procedure in itself reduces the democracy deficit that we talk so much about in relation to the functioning of the European Union. However, I would rather be calm rather than proud, and it seems that my fellow Members are not so calm. I would rather be calm about the fact that the European Union's institutional system, the European Commission itself, understands its rules of operation and can offer real solutions to the problems that we are facing today. However, it is not that, but that we are witnessing a decade of struggle again, namely bureaucracy, administration versus legislation, in which the institutions in the administration, which are destined to be implemented, are trying to reconstruct over and over again in the area of legislation, where in stealth mode, let us say, under the grass and where an open attack is taking place. However, there are few open attacks, such as this one, which we can safely call an open, harsh, frontal attack, when the European Union's enforcement and bureaucratic organisation is so openly and harshly trying to take action in matters beyond its competence. This is not just a legislative war, but we recognise that this is a great political war, this is a great political battle, and a great battle is currently taking place. In particular, the attempt to break down the nation state of a thousand years on the part of supernationalist arguments, and a very harsh expression of this is taking place before our eyes. We would think, too, and Hungarian people would generally think that there are people in the European Union, in the European Commission, in the European institutional system who can read and write, and I am not a lawyer, but at least I am a lawyer, and at least people who are legally executed help their work and define the scope that has been assigned to them within the framework of the European Union. And people would think that the Members and colleagues of the European Commission understand that, in a power that is not available to them, but is available to another European Union body, namely the European Council, Article 78 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which has already been mentioned a lot, gives the European Council this power to have it available to the European Council and not to the Commission. This raises serious political questions, not just a legal issue. [[10.40]] Because if we say that this competence is available to the European Council and that the European Commission's proposal to amend the regulation is going to come into effect and pass, then we are talking about a conflict of powers, a debate of powers, and if we are to resolve this debate of competence, then obviously this must be done at the expense of one of the designated powers, which will lead us to mister's forgiveness, to the fact that we really need to reword regulations, or indeed to redraft basic contracts, to re-enforce Parliaments, and to the difficult procedure that we have experienced in recent years, even until 2009, before the signing of the Lisbon Treaty, this difficult procedure must again be carried out, while millions of illegal immigrants, political and economic immigrants have actually started or arrived in Europe. I remember vividly that when we wanted to visit the Western European country when I was young, during the visa requirement, we had to present an invitation letter to enter - I don't know - England, or stay permanently in Ireland, Britain, and so on, and this is exactly what we are doing now: we are sending an invitation letter to the hundreds of thousands and millions of people in Africa, the Middle East region, who are eager to settle for a better life in the long term and live here in Europe. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] We are sending an invitation letter to these millions, and in the meantime we are not going to respond to the fact that, while we are amending regulations, we are creating regulations and ratifying contracts again, sir, and how it will work, that by then the number of one million illegal immigrants who have already arrived in Europe will be doubled, tripled, four times, five times, who knows how many times, how the European supply system will be able to handle this, or how the European Union will really respond to internal mobility, or that if your claim is true, and we say that we are not talking about economic immigrants, but about political immigrants, where is the incentive system that will help the millions arriving in Europe, if the war in their country ends or the political conflict that they are coming to Europe, then return to their homeland - because we are basically talking about temporary assistance when we receive refugees, and we are not settling millions from beyond the borders of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the cooperation of the four in Visegrad, for example, should serve as a basis for the opinion and decision of the opposition parties, and especially the socialists. It is safe to say that what the Visegrád Four have shown in recent months about cohesion, about the strong alliance - as we have seen, at the invitation of János Áder, the heads of state of the Visegrád countries in Balatonfüred, the same is true for intergovernmental cooperation, inter-governmental cooperation, cooperation between parliaments, the same is true for the cooperation of the Committee of European Affairs with the co-committees of the Visegrád countries, and the same is true, for example, for border police and police cooperation - I very much hope that this strong alliance of the Visegrád countries will serve as a model for us, for you, for finally to achieve this national minimum, which so much is being said, we will achieve, and I very hope that this will serve, for example, for the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, for example, that this 19 votes will be collected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. First up is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-22-45	Mr President, Dear House, I could identify with the words that have just been said that, through an initiative from here, we should shape something on Europe's thinking and achieve the change that is good for us, and I have two problems with it. One is that, in the common European space of action, we have not very much in the last ten years found patterns that suggest that this very rightly mentioned lame duck syndrome is resolved by anything in Brussels. Common European policies are either unsuccessful or not. The fact is that none of my fellow Members can mention three examples, a larger crisis, a bigger problem that the EU would have solved in the last ten years with timely response, fast, efficient and modern methods. There are absolutely no such things, the common order of action is worn out, a last century or last millennium seems to be something. My other problem is that I would expect more from a government with such a strong mandate than yours, which won by two-thirds, although it doesn't now. But in itself, trying very gently to make some kind of change and send a message to Brussels in the virtual space with different yellow cards and other warnings is very little. Jobbik has a clear plan of action on this issue: we would like to achieve a referendum on quota, quota solutions in Hungary, we would like not on your national consultation sheets, not only on our stands and host hours, but also on all Hungarian voters who are potentially asked, armed with everyone's opinion, to obtain a legitimate opportunity to decide on a decisive referendum by the Hungarian people. With this legitimisation force, you can go to Brussels, and there you can hit that table, and you can flip over that table if that's what it is, because we're talking about a national strategy issue. We are confused about the fact that Jobbik is the only one who wants to ask Hungarian citizens directly, in the form of a decisive referendum, and not about an international treaty, there is not yet a treaty carved into stone that cannot be held in a referendum, there are no obstacles, not even the same level as those that have been overwritten in Cyprus in Greece by virtually a constitutional amendment in two weeks. It could and should be asked whether it contributes to maintaining an invasion-like state and whether it contributes to the conscious resettlement of anyone, of any alien in Hungary, thus contributing to a kind of population exchange in the long term - because there is a population exchange in Hungary, alongside hundreds of thousands of emigrants, and in parallel with this phenomenon, more and more voices are gaining ground which, I quote, should replace our shortcomings from a stranger. It's a life-threatening trend. Jobbik's position is clear: Hungarians must straighten the Hungarian chorus, we must correct the demographic crack, no one else, nothing from a foreigner... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] It is possible to smile on this, of course, in the MSZP migrant petting policy that they and the civil society organisations that are close to them will consciously settle people from strangers here. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] It has already been said from their co-organisations and foundations that they would also transfer vacant municipal tenements to them; they did not really oppose the fact that the Fidesz-KDNP basic law did not grant voting rights to this migrant mass, but to those persons who have been positively judged for their application, and it is worth talking about where any quota-like solution leads, which you also seem to support. These quota-like solutions lead to the opening of an open system from above, in fact opening a door that could then come in any form if they decide to do so in Brussels. The fact is that you can only talk about 1300 people, you can only talk about 2-3 thousand, but this hat opened from above can produce amazing numbers in the coming years, and neither the Fidesz-KDNP, nor a government with a strong mandate, nor the opposition can prevent people from being brought here from being brought here into family reunions. According to professional calculations, during family reunifications, an additional 4-8, invited people per person should be expected, and if we add the amazingly high reproductive rates of the countries of origin of the arrivals, we compare this with the Hungarian, very low similar rate, then we can see that crowds can arrive in Hungary in a few decades' distance, and crowds can be deployed. Zsuzsanna Zsohár, spokesperson for Migration Aid in a joint debate, replied that 700 or 1300 people bothered us when the country lost more than 20,000 natural weight last year, so he didn't think that a few hundred or two thousand people would show up on the 4-6 tram. Yet we say that releasing the spirit from the bottle would be life-threatening, since this would also mean a message that we would virtually give up our own replacement, our reproduction, the intention of this, in order to replace or try to restore the system from the outside with external resources. Jobbik does not want such a country, Jobbik clearly wants to advance from its own resources and from its own strength, with all its means. At this point, we also need to talk about possible deportations, as they can only exacerbate the situation created or to be developed by the so-called quota, but even the most dangerous of the quotas is that it does not work with specific numbers but with algorithms, and clearly, according to a variable methodology in the future, it would no longer spread specific quantities of people in Europe, but would actually set a percentage based on economic performance, population and other indicators, and would spread and deploy the masses concerned in the periphery depending on the number of arrivals. [[10.50]] We better people don't understand why liberal colleagues don't protest out loud about the fact that they're actually trying to relocate people in Europe by violent means and keep them in a country they didn't even want to go to. In other historical times, you are very loud against similar solutions. We do not support such solutions, and therefore do not support the quota, but we are confused about how they intend to make this feasible, how you imagine it to be feasible. We consider this to be a childish, infantile and perfectly lifeless idea, which, let alone does not help solve the problem, but it does also send a kind of invitation letter, promising those concerned the hope that their situation may be legalized and their situation can be resolved. While it arises that you are apologizing to the arrivals that they have the right to a better life and to a better life, while such a right is not only unknown, but there is no obligation for us to support similar rights and privileges in any form, because if it were refugees, it would be possible to argue about the ceilings, but this is far from the case. We are faced with a consciously organized invasion, and it is not underestimated at all that, yes, Europe is late, with very weak means, but it is attempting to defend itself. That is why we are also confused about the fact that Fidesz-KDNP, although it seems to reject these quota-like solutions, has two problems with it. One is the idea of a world quota, which is essentially an extension of the same problem to a much wider extent. In addition to the lack of realism, we do not understand that if the genre itself has a problem with the government - and rightly has a problem with that - then why do you imagine that a wider spread of the same methodology and the same method and system could work. And our other problem is Zsolt Németh; he is not his person, because we have no personal problem with him, our problem is that on his part it was clear statement that if a decision on a quota is made on the EU side, a legitimate decision which he considers legitimate, then Hungary has a duty to implement without having to do so. We, the right-handers, do not agree with this either, because there is a line that we have to draw, we do not go beyond that, and we are quite simply not willing to accept a similar Brussels dictatorship. In the same way, if Brussels dictated the Hungarian land to be sold out in bulk, it would also be necessary to draw a line there that we no longer allow it, so there are national strategic issues for which it is impossible to cross that line. Unfortunately, we are now at the point where Fidesz-KDNP is trying to play in a similar way to some of the land, and we don't need foreign investors here, but this is another agenda, another topic, let's not get into it. What we need to see is that it needs to be clarified, it is necessary to clarify that Zsolt Németh lines and directions are the real face of the Fidesz-KDNP or what we hear in Parliament, because if what we hear here is what we have to argue about, then we can conflict arguments and exchange knowledge, but Zsolt Németh said not only that, he also mentioned in a discussion that the era of sovereign nation states has expired. This can still be treated as a private opinion, but with regard to a leading face in the State Department, we need to think about these statements, so that it does not end with the fact that Fidesz-KDNP is hard on the quota with the faces of the group leader and others, and I can support this, and I can identify with that, and then in Brussels space the government will bleed out, and apparently forced to submit to the Western decision that should not otherwise be, and they will say that we have tried everything, we have fought very hard against the quota, but we will be forced to do so, otherwise the resources will be frozen and so on. The fact is that it is necessary to decide whether the direction and direction of Zsolt Németh is the government's own or what it is now performing for us in this debate. It is not possible to pursue a two-bullet policy on this issue, nor a double game, so they must decide whether they really consider it legitimate to take a decision in Brussels on any quota-like solution, or whether they are taking a firm stand against it. In order to gain legitimacy on this issue, Jobbik can continue to suggest that they should not be afraid, should not shy away from an initiative for a decisive referendum, by which Hungarian voters can clearly explain their intention to contribute to the resettlement of aliens in Hungary on the basis of a quota or any similar solution. I'm not going to tell you a secret by saying that Jobbik will clearly encourage you to vote "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no." I have a strong suspicion that, with regard to such a decisive referendum, the rejection rate would be above 90 percent - it is very right that this is the case - but it must be seen that, without consulting the Hungarian people, Hungarian voters, it is neither fair nor fair to decide on such issues of national strategy. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, will now take the floor. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-22-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's first agenda has been going on for quite a long time, which also proves that it is an extremely important one, and I could also say that this agenda is about an interesting or substantive issue. Unfortunately, the debate was not without some personalism. If I may, I would like to talk specifically about professional matters with regard to this proposal before us. My fellow Member Gyopáros, by the way, I think he was quite rightly speaking about the substance of the proposal, what is a real debate, and I might be able to say that to my fellow Member Z. Karpat... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What was I talking about?]] In full technical terms, Mr President, we are debating here the legal basis for the European Commission's reference to this crisis relocation mechanism, i.e. its proposal, and it says that Congressman Hörcsik has also said that the Commission is expanding beyond its powers and that it wants to remove powers from the Council. Once again, I think this really is a real debate, and if you like it, it could also be said as a legal or legal dogmatic issue that what the European Commission is allowed to do by European legislation, regulations, i.e. what is explicitly listed in its powers, can form an opinion only on what is not forbidden or can be expanded beyond this, I think it is a real debate, I think that this can be debated in substance. But if you would allow us to approach this proposal in a different way, then indeed, we could also talk about deepening, let us say, the European Union, European cooperation, or rather at its current level, or - perhaps my fellow Members would like that, but I would not like to put things in their mouth that they may not have said - let us come back from the cooperation that we have already practiced in the European Union. For example, Congressman Kósa called it stealth federalism, as the European Commission now wants to take power away from the European Council, for example, in their approach. I think that it is really possible to debate this in substance here, within the walls of Parliament, because if my fellow Member, Zsolt Németh, says that the era of sovereign nation states is over, I think that this can also be debated in substance, there can also be some opinion about whether this is really the case or what our future will be, in this, of course, the future of the European Union, and also the future of Hungary. I think that these are the issues that we have been talking about, with, of course, the proposal before us focusing specifically on one thing, and this is a certain crisis relocation mechanism and, in this context, the method that the European Commission now wants to choose to settle this matter. Congressman Répássy, if I understand correctly, may not have understood it correctly, but perhaps in his speech he said that he did not think it was justified to introduce a new mechanism. In the previous two minutes, I said that the Hungarian Socialist Party's position is that a new mechanism should be introduced, since this is the so-called magical Dublin III. We don't think it settles this particular life situation, we think it's not meant for this life situation, but for dealing with the lives of a few hundred or possibly a few thousand refugees. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] When asylum seekers intend to enter the territory of the European Union in a mass of up to a hundred thousand, perhaps millions, this is not settled by Dublin III. regulation according to us. That is why we are saying that we do not need to improve this Dublin III. There is no need to change this a little bit, not to add something, but rather to establish a completely new procedure for the European Union. [[11.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to ask you a provocative question so you don't get the wrong idea, but I still have to ask you, I think you're aware that if Dublin III is the case, The system remains in place, which means that in Hungary we must take back the 176 thousand asylum seekers we have just mentioned. Mr Hollik said that these people came into the European Union through Greece. This is true, but where they were registered, the country was Hungary, and therefore, if Dublin III. It reads the regulation and looks at its rules in detail, which states that it may be returned to that country where the application for asylum has been lodged. In other words, this is where 176,000 people are sent back, so that's why we're saying Dublin III. The European Union should forget, let's just say in a simple language, about the regulation. We do not think this is a good solution, and we think that this is what would put a very heavy burden on Hungary, because then this 176 thousand people who have submitted their asylum application should be deported and sent back to Hungary. Overall, I can say that, as I have said, I believe that a serious debate with real political arguments can be held to deepen European Union cooperation or not to deepen it. I think that the Hungarian Parliament can hold a very long and certainly passionate debate in this. I have a personal position on this, by the way, but I don't want to be here right now, because I don't think we have to take it this way. If we look at it strictly legally, then, on the basis of the conflict of competence, I would argue once again, the legal basis for the Commission's intention to announce this relocation crisis mechanism, I think that the overextension could be established. But again, this is a much more serious and meaningful issue, so I think that, as I said, we can have a substantive debate in this, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to do so in the near future. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-22-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gyopáros Alpár for two minutes.
u2015-10-22-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's opinion on the joint action was moved to make a two-minute contribution. I can partly agree with him, but the thing is, if I may have to position myself compared to Jobbik, I would do it myself as a Eurosceptic, but I am not impressed with the opinion that we have a place outside the European Union today. I want to believe in Europe. Our history, the history of Europe and Hungary, has proved many times that we have been able to rebuild from the greatest trouble, and we have been able to take a common position on matters or matters. We were able to rise or rebuild in wars, epidemics, and all kinds of natural disasters. But each such occasion has shown that this is only possible if there is action, if there are strong statesmen or women, typically statesmen have shown action, intentions and actions, and have done so, rather than have amended regulations, as we see in the institutions of the European Union today. They are trying to take positions against each other instead of offering, acting, not waiting; as I often quote President Juncker's sentence, on 9 September he said that it was time for us to finally come up with a common position and act. On 9 September, ladies and gentlemen. What have you been up to? That's the question. Now, however, this is the opportunity, because the competent European Council has a way of acting on the part of the statesmen and women sitting there. If we adopted our proposal, we would finally have a solution to the situation that we are facing today. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-22-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made and the joint general debate is therefore closed. [[Dr. Vas Imre: We want to respond.]] I ask him, yes, he has already made contact, I wanted to ask him, but Richard Hörcsik, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate without question.
u2015-10-22-51	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, B/6622 submitted by the Committee on European Affairs Report No 7 and Report No H/6624. The proposal for a resolution, which we have seen, has raised great interest at our committee meeting and here at plenary level. I answered the questions earlier in the debate. First of all, allow me to thank my fellow Members for their activity in this regard, for having so many people involved and expressing their thoughts. As I said, I have already partially responded to what was said in the debate, so I would like to respond once again to two thoughts. One: my fellow Member Bana mentioned that he is the yellow flat procedure, which is now an opportunity for us, a pessimist. In this respect, I share your pessimism, because two years ago, we conducted such an inquiry in the Hungarian Parliament about the draft Council regulation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we made history. It worked out, thank God, 19 votes, and we submitted it in Brussels. So what happened? The Barroso Commission then submitted it in its unchanged form again. We were outraged by this procedure. However, if I look at the behaviour of the new Commission, I am moderately optimistic, because apparently the Juncker Committee has broken off with its predecessor's policy and has started a new kind of politics. The Commission has realised that there is a problem in the EU, that EU citizens are turning away from the European institutions, which is most apparent in the European Parliament's votes. We need to start a new policy, and one of the expressions of this new kind of policy by the Juncker Committee is that it wants to engage with national parliaments, to establish closer cooperation, because the Commission feels that there is a problem. I am pleased to report that over the past six months five European Commissioners have visited our committee and had a meaningful dialogue. This gives me the right to have a good hope for the Juncker Committee, who has promised to change its policy, and here is the opportunity to submit this proposal to the Juncker Committee if the 19 votes gather. The test of pudding is eating. I'm rooting for 19 votes to come together. Well, my other short response to the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who called the referendum on the government: honourable Member, the government asked Hungarian citizens nearly a year ago in the context of the national consultation. Over a million responses have been received, and we are well aware of the outcome. With this in mind, the Hungarian Prime Minister has acted in Brussels over the past year and a half and presented concrete proposals and proposals for solutions. Last time, he brought a six-point proposal to the European Council, and we discussed this at the so-called Grand Committee meeting before the Council meeting here in the Hungarian Parliament in a closed session. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has done everything the citizens have authorized him to do. And what do we see in Europe? We got real cold, warm. The Prime Minister took advantage of all the legal possibilities available for our membership in the EU. We see that, however slow the European decision-making mechanism is, there is still a result of this windmill fight, because when we started saying earlier that we should not only focus on the Mediterranean in Lampedusa, but also on the Balkan route, through which the migrant route leads in Hungary, Europe was slowly paying attention, but at first no one took care of it. [[11.10]] And here is the last result, which I consider to be a small but important result, that one of the six-point proposals, the last one, wanted to present the solution to the Union, that the solution here is not to debate quotas, but to protect the Schengen borders. And yes, what our Fundamental Law requires and requires of European legislation, we do nothing but protect the Schengen borders, which is not just a Hungarian border, but a European border. We have given a sample of this, and here is the Visegrád Four Alliance, if you will, so that we can protect the European borders together; we have given an example and a model. And now, all European leaders clearly state that Europe's borders must be protected. But the action is still lacking. So the European Union's decision-making mechanism is slow, which can be challenged. But what is in line with the law, we respect everything, and that is why we do not tolerate being called to account for something that is not respected by another Member State. This is the case of double standards. And we cannot accept that they will be deported to us, because we registered migrants, even though Hungary was not the first country to which they joined, but Greece. Greece is not absolved of the fact that it has not been registered there. According to the Treaty and the Dublin Treaty, they have therefore crossed the border of the Union and should therefore be deported if they want to do so. It is not acceptable that the Greek government washes its hands, that we have problems, so we did not register them. Yes, the Hungarian Prime Minister has repeatedly said that the basic treaties must be respected. According to this, there is nothing better than Dublin III. and the Schengen regime. All we do is keep what we signed once. Is that what you're asking us to do? Well, in short, on the political content of the debate, let me return to our original proposal in order to say a few words about this too. The Hungarian House Rule 142. §2 introduced a centralised model in which the Committee on European Affairs is entitled to carry out the examination of subsidiarity. This committee will therefore play a central role in the conciliation procedure and will also perform permanent Commission tasks. His diverse responsibilities and decades of experience contribute to the Committee's readiness to fulfil the tasks resulting from the Lisbon Treaty. Subsidiarity testing is therefore a major intellectually challenging process. Ladies and gentlemen. It's an option, it's a tool. The problem is that EU colleagues have neither read nor know the Lisbon Treaty, which has been ratified by all national parliaments. We seriously believe that we can use the legislative instrument that we want as an opportunity to shoot back at the European Commission, not with demagoguery, but with the instrument of law. I understand that European law is, after all, a fundamental foundation for the whole Union. We want to keep this and, if necessary, to be accountable to the European Commission. I beg you, how many times does the European Commission put us in a corner, saying that we do not comply with European law? ! If they don't keep it, can they? Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi? The double standard? Well, in this connection, I would like to highlight perhaps the most difficult part of the procedure that my fellow Members are witnessing here in plenary. By what method does the Committee on European Affairs conclude that the subsidiarity principle is violated in relation to an EU proposal? It's not regulated in the house rules. So, in principle, any provision and clause in a draft EU legislation could violate the principle of subsidiarity. As far as the test method is concerned, I believe that only thorough, repeated reading, analysis and conflicting of opinions of the draft legislative act can be the only viable way. So, of course, the investigation is also filled with subjective elements - this is one thing, we are politicians - but at the same time it takes a great deal of preparation, as well as a lot of time and energy. Until a proposal is put on the agenda by the Committee on European Affairs, it will certainly be several weeks before the proposal is analysed and interpreted. Here I would like to thank the colleagues of the Committee on European Affairs, László Juhász, Zsuzsa Dóczy and Csaba Tamás for the work they have done in recent years. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen, the subject of the inquiry is the EU proposal adopted by the European Commission, which is not yet in force. I would like to emphasise this because much has been said in the debate. Subsidiarity, as it is a political and non-legal category, should be analysed separately in each case on what criteria it is possible to talk about a breach of the principle. The Committee on European Affairs shall be responsible for the implementation of Article B/6622. In its report No.3 it clearly sought to support our reasoned opinion by giving precise indications of the sections of the draft regulation, since we are legislators. Given the foreign opinions adopted so far on this subject, I believe that we have worked out our arguments in a professional and thorough manner. In my presentation, although I have covered many things, let me say three things only as a closing thought. 1. House rules are 142. In the proceedings under §2 of the Act, the Parliament shall give a reasoned opinion to the legislative institutions of the Union on a specific proposal. 2. The aim of the procedure is not to torpedo the EU proposal, but to achieve the necessary threshold of vote will lead to the European Commission reviewing or withdrawing this proposal. We've got a chance. 3. If this voting threshold has not been reached by the deadline, the decision-making process in the EU institutions may continue, but Parliament's opinions may be considered in the Council and in the European Parliament. The European Commission cannot go aside from the fact that we have shown a yellow card, that the political situation, the political situation, and especially the migration situation, have changed: European citizens have been increasingly turning away from the European institutions in the last year and a half. There are people in the European Commission, too, and I very much hope that our proposals will be considered even if the 19 votes do not come together. Finally, I encourage my fellow Members to live in a duly justified case in the near future, as is the case now, with the right granted by the Lisbon Treaty, because this is not a game, but only prepared, knowing the process and consequences of the procedure. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the parliamentary adoption of the report and the proposal for a resolution which adopted it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Today you have until 16 o'clock to submit the amendments. Dear Parliament, The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/6631. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[11.20]]
u2015-10-22-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The State debt relief for the population is the 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons. It was accompanied by a new legislative act, which helps to restore their solvency and to settle their debt by ensuring that individuals in difficulty in payment are protected from bankruptcy. This legal institution is the so-called private bankruptcy procedure, the essence of which should be summarised in such a way as to create an orderly legal framework for insolvent individuals so that they are not exposed to recovery procedures involving immediate deprivation of property and income based on the competition of creditors and the logic of recovery of claims, but to a second chance of getting out of the debt trap. The debt settlement procedure may be initiated during the first period following the entry into force of the law by credit taxpayers whose assets and repaymentable income are not sufficient to meet accrued debt repayment obligations and it is therefore expected that the procedure resulting in the loss of their residential residence will be initiated or continued. Therefore, the legislator focuses on credit taxpayers with residential immovable property and gradually extends the possibility of entering the procedure to other retail groups in later years. This does not change the bill submitted by the Government on 13 October 2015 nor does it affect the legal deadlines for the first period. The purpose of the bill is to amend the private law to a small extent in order to provide a one-off additional deadline at the latest by 1 March 2016 without prejudice to internal deadlines on the initiative of debt settlement procedures that can be initiated at the first stage. The authorisation of the additional time limit also allows those who have exceeded the deadlines applicable to them in the first period in accordance with the legal provisions now in force to initiate the debt settlement procedure. The legal provision of the additional time limit therefore also gives credit-paying persons who have not followed government information and legislation and missed the deadlines for the debt settlement procedure a chance to escape from the debt trap. Despite the additional deadline allowed in the bill, the government would like to continue to draw the attention of the credit-paying families concerned by means of government communication and family bankruptcy services to decide as soon as possible whether they wish to take advantage of the possibility of private bankruptcy proceedings and the associated bankruptcy protection. Only the debt settlement initiative can stop forced sale procedures in the future. In order to simplify, speed up procedures and reduce unjustified administrative burdens for financial institutions, the bill provides the debtor with an option to submit documents initiating private bankruptcy proceedings to the territorial body of the family bankruptcy service, the metropolitan and county government offices. However, they may also decide to submit these documents directly to the principal lending financial institution. In particular, the bill does not affect the main creditors' obligations, nor does it affect the fact that an out-of-court debt settlement procedure will be carried out in these cases, if there is a principal lender. In view of the legal interpretation issues in practice, the proposed legislation clarifies the procedure to be followed for contracts with a duration longer than the period of judicial debt settlement. As a rule, the period of court debt settlement lasts for five years. Additional rules should be included for mortgage credit transactions with a longer maturity or financial leasing transactions on residential property. The reason for this is that neither the debtor nor the creditor would benefit from the shortening of the maturity by a judicial debt repayment decision or the extension of the duration of the debt settlement procedure until the expiry of the maturity. The bill therefore states that the minimum return for the creditor should only be made by the debtor until the end of the term. If, however, the loan contract or the financial leasing contract has already been terminated by the creditor, the debtor shall still be entitled to the benefit of performing the minimum return over a period corresponding to the duration of the term. This supplement facilitates the recovery of the debtor's ability to pay. In this context, the court exemption rules should also be supplemented as the debtor is obliged to pay the amounts still due until the expiry of the term, as set out in the settlement agreement or the debt settlement decision, i.e. the discharge decision rewards the time-proportional performance during the debt settlement period. In summary, the bill applies to housing-credit families whose interest is to initiate a private bankruptcy procedure, because they are able to obtain more favourable repayment terms by means of bankruptcy protection, and disciplined debtors can end the debt settlement period by maintaining reasonable housing ownership. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/6631 on debt settlement for natural persons. Please support bill number 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-22-55	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Although the government submitted the 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons at the end of May. a bill that entered into force on 1 September, but before I talk about the amendment, let me summarize the history with a few thoughts. Mr State Secretary has also mentioned that a new legal institution has been created for debtors who are given a second chance if they are subject to private bankruptcy proceedings or if they want to and enter this legal system. In the Hungarian legal system, this is the first procedure for debt settlement for private individuals, which effectively facilitates debt settlement for families with difficulties in payment, namely families with minimal assets and repayment capacity, but also helps to get out of the debt trap. This was the aim when 16 KDNP representatives submitted the original bill to get people out of debt traps. The purpose of the debt settlement procedure is to carry out the settlement of debts under public supervision by coordinating the interests of the debtor and his creditors. The essence of the private bankruptcy procedure can therefore be defined by providing the debtor with a legal framework for the settlement of his debts to his creditors, i.e. in particular the removal from the debt trap of creditors and persons who accumulate multiple payment delays. The debt settlement procedure may be initiated at the first stage by a credit debtor whose assets and repaymentable income are not sufficient to meet his repayment obligation in relation to his accumulated debt and the procedure resulting in the loss of his residential property is expected to be initiated or continued. The Secretary of State has also highlighted this. And let me underline that here the original law focuses on residential property. There must be a place to live; this is what the law on foreign exchange credentials focused on. [[11.30]] Dear House, Thus, the submitted bill amends the so-called private bankruptcy law in a small extent, but does not affect its substance, in order to provide a one-off time limit at the initiative of the first-stage debt settlement procedures. The legislator shall set this additional time limit by 1 March 2016. The authorisation of the additional time limit allows those who have exceeded the deadlines laid down in the legal provisions now in force to initiate a debt settlement procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention that the additional time limit does not affect the legal deadlines for the continuation of enforcement and non-execution sales in the provisions of the law currently in force and the specific rules on those procedures laid down there. I stress that the main rule of the debt settlement initiative is to stop forced sale procedures, and this is very important for the credit-debt families concerned to make a quick decision whether they want to enter, to be more precise: whether they want to take advantage of the possibility of a private bankruptcy procedure and the protection of its associated bankruptcy. The amendment of the debt settlement law, beyond the additional deadline, gives the debtor a choice to initiate out-of-court debt settlement or to submit the documents initiating proceedings at the territorial body of the family bankruptcy service, as we have heard from the Minister of State, at the metropolitan and county government offices. The purpose of this amendment is to simplify and speed up procedures and to reduce the burden on financial institutions. This simplification and acceleration, the option, the additional deadline all serve to get people who choose this legal institution out of this debt trap. Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, I must briefly talk about the court debt settlement period, which, as a rule, lasts five years. However, there are financial leasing transactions on mortgage and residential property with a much longer duration, and there is reason to include additional rules, since neither the debtor nor the creditor would benefit from the shortening of the maturity by a judicial debt repayment decision or the extension of the duration of the debt settlement procedure until the maturity expires. To this end, the amendment states that the minimum return for the creditor should be granted only until the end of the term. This is an important point in my opinion. If the loan or financial leasing contract has already been terminated by the creditor, the debtor is still entitled to the benefit of performing the minimum return over a period corresponding to the duration of the term, i.e. the exemption decision rewards the time-proportional performance during the debt settlement period. Dear House, In view of the above, as we can see and have heard in the government's exposé, the government's main objective was to help as many households trapped in debt as possible by using the additional deadline. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would ask you to support the bill that has been submitted, which has been discussed in advance with the Banking Association. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-10-22-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Hundreds of thousands of families in our country continue to struggle with debt. In addition to the increasing burden on mortgage loans, the cost of rent and other housing will also become unpayable to many. Many do not have enough income, and the use of their wealth does not cover their debts. These families feel that they will never be able to get rid of their debts. For them, the private institution could have given us a chance to recover. Not only is the payment of the rent a problem for many today, but it is also that they do not become more involved in the debt spiral. As a civil society organisation dealing with housing stated in its report, due to its utility or credit debt, around 500 thousand enforcement cases are launched annually in Hungary, this number increases by 10 percent each year. The proportion of people who accumulate public utility debt is much higher than that of mortgage lenders. While nearly a quarter of the population is in debt, mortgage debt affects 6.8 percent of the population. More than four years ago, the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted a fully-developed bill for the introduction of a private bankruptcy, which would have helped all debtors. For years, however, the governing parties refused to put the matter of private bankruptcy on the agenda, while the masses of families who had been trapped by debt each month fought for their daily livelihood. Instead of adopting our bill, years later, a law was put forward that could only have been a part of the debtors - now we can say it could have been - a solution, most of the families that were trapped in debt years ago do not provide any help. Moreover, it is not a sure way out for debtors who want to suffer the full process of the debt settlement process at all. A few statements for the bill. The law on the debt settlement of natural persons was submitted by KDNP to a terrible legislative standard in the spring of the year. The quality of the development is well characterised by the fact that the Legislative Committee has finally submitted a summary amendment of 185 points for the bill of 127 paragraphs. The main objections of the Hungarian Socialist Party in relation to the draft law were as follows. The law contains a number of restrictions that exclude a significant proportion of debtors from the debt settlement procedure. The bill submitted by the MSZP against the law would not only have allowed the opening of the debt settlement procedure when the debtor was already 90 days late, but also in the event of a risk of insolvency. In particular, for the period of implementation of the debt repayment plan, the law on the settlement of debts of natural persons essentially puts the debtor in poverty. The Hungarian Socialist Party then submitted a number of amendments to the draft, which would have broadened the range of persons who could be involved in the debt settlement process, and would have made the burden of debtors more realistic and fairer. However, none of these were supported by the Fidesz majority. As the MSZP considers that the law is completely inadequate to remedy or even mitigate the problem of the debtor in distress, the MSZP abstained from the final vote. The correctness of the position of the MSZP has now been undoubtedly confirmed. We could say we told you this wasn't gonna work. The fundamental errors of the law will not be improved by this proposal. Thus, the extension of the application deadline does not mean that the masses of debtors would take advantage of the opportunities offered by the law on debt settlement for natural persons. Settlement of repayments of claims arising from longer-term loan contracts is an important, forward-looking provision of the proposal. Maybe that's the only positive. As early as 2010, the Hungarian Socialist Party presented its fully developed proposal on private bankruptcy, which could provide substantial assistance to a wide range of debtors. Fidesz didn't even support our bill, and I'm gonna stress it again. Instead of really helping debtors, Fidesz left this extremely important question for KDNP's own playground. [[11.40]] After years of treason, KDNP finally submitted a legislative freak to the Parliament. The KDNP has demonstrated its total social insensitivity and has raised Dracon conditions against debtors that cannot be met, so no one has used it so far. The private bankruptcy law of KDNP is a complete failure, which the absolution and absolution will help nothing. In addition, it has to be said here that Mr Péter Harrach KDNP has spoken to the press several times over the last few weeks, and according to his statements, no one has been able to find out that half a thousand people have applied to this private institution now, because on one occasion he said five hundred, and then he blamed only one hundred, and essentially the Hungarian media, for not having succeeded in introducing this private institution. You didn't tell me, Congressman, that the law itself was wrong. You blamed the media for it. When the law was passed, the number of people who would use the private institution was estimated at 20-25 thousand. To this day, we hear a hundred numbers, but we hear press reports that there are zero numbers of people who have applied to the private institution of bankruptcy. Moreover, Congressman said - I will quote it literally - that he expects more people to take the threat seriously and submit their application to the family bankruptcy programme after the expiry of the implementation moratorium and when the implementation is restarted. He highlighted the need to raise awareness among stakeholders that he has two options: either the implementation of the loss of home or the change of life. I hope that wasn't a threat, Congressman. I'd like to ask you how you thought it was going to be a way of life. These people are not struggling to eat Zalai instead of Pick salami, but no meat on their table. What kind of life-changing is that, Congressman? Because I think these people have nothing left to give up. The other thing I was shocked at was asking a written question about the cost of 103 days - 103 days since the law was published - and I was told that the government had spent 626,7 million forints on a non-functioning bankruptcy program. You know, this 626 million forints is over 6 million forints a day divided into 103 days. Over 6 million forints were pushed out of the window for the non-functioning program by warning the ruling party in advance that this law would not help the bankrupt people. We threw 6 million forints out the window! Now there's a bill that says we're pushing the deadline until March, and we can throw hundreds of millions of forints out the window without saving one person. When will the time come when normal amendments will be accepted and consideration will be given to the fact that there is an amendment that can help people? Let's stop playing the game of spending billions in months, because we are slowly getting to the point of spending more than 1 billion forints in 7-8 months, and we couldn't save one person! With the HUF 6 million a day, hundreds of families could have been helped. If you can only give a hundred families 60,000 forints a day, we've already saved a hundred families. Nothing happened compared to that. So if this bill stays the way it is now, we will certainly not be able to support it and we will be submitting amendments to the law. We hope that the Fidesz-KDNP government will finally get to the point where it will take this into account, and that it will actually be based on help, and not that we will continue to draw on a non-functioning law until March. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-10-22-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-10-22-59	Mr President, Dear House, Before I speak of the proposal, I am obliged to add a few sentences to the shockingly populist and uninformed speech I have just made. Congresswoman missed the statement she quoted some details of. You should have read it correctly and understood the words so that you wouldn't come up with a mistake. First of all, it is not true - wherever you read - that no one has applied. They made contracts. In connection with the statement you quoted, I said it was true that this number was below 100. Right? That's how it was said. And what did the 500 say about three weeks ago? By having 500 people already started the process, they requested the data sheet and thus initiated the connection process. This was supposed to be read, but not in a psychic that misquoted. So, if you'll allow me to make this small adjustment to your speech. He mentioned that there was a lot of money that we used to prepare the bankrupts. Do you imagine the implementation of this law to be a dilettant way of dealing with debtors? You have to train, build the system. It's a new law institution. This legal institution is now being introduced in Hungary - you would have liked to have - and, according to Western experience, it will be adopted over years, not only in the long phase of preparation, but also in the phase of introduction. There wasn't a single state in which the debtors ran from one minute to the next. This was gradually introduced everywhere, not only for use. We're at this stage now. We now have two important amendments to make. One of them is the extension of the deadline. Although he also quoted the sentence I said, I must say it again: some of the debtors did not perceive the danger that implementation represents for them. This implementation means the loss of their home. If they perceive it by starting the implementation process - which is due in the second half of October - then they will obviously take advantage of the opportunity that we offer them, and this is family bankruptcy. Obviously, there is a need for a lifestyle change here, and that doesn't mean what you said doesn't mean there's nothing left to change. This means that in a way defined by law, reducing costs that are not necessarily necessary, but ensuring decent living conditions, a way of life should be used to help debtors save their homes and start over. You don't seem to want to give that to the debtors. But let's start from the beginning. The state debt-saving toolbox lacked the opportunity that the Parliament accepted on 1 September. The aim is to restore solvency. On the other hand, it is undoubtedly also intended to protect families in debt traps from competition from creditors. We know that most debtors do not have one credit, and creditors want to collect their own credit as soon as possible. This legal institution provides the debtor with the right of order between creditors. Of course, the solution to the problem is also facilitated by the fact that the debtor has a minimum amount of assets and a capacity to repay. Public supervision is also implemented, as participation requires three parties: the credit institution, the debtor and the public supervision. [[11.50]] At the first stage, those whose homes have been compromised can benefit from this service. As I said, there are two important amendments to the material before us. One is the provision of an additional deadline by 1 March, but we do not recommend waiting for this deadline for the families concerned, and it should be considered as soon as possible whether they wish to take advantage of the possibility of a private bankruptcy procedure and the associated protection of bankruptcy, as they have forgotten to say that this procedure is also a safeguard of bankruptcy and that implementations are being stopped. The bill gives the debtor an option to initiate out-of-court debt settlement by submitting directly to the principal lending financial institution, or - and this is the second important amendment - to submit the documents initiating the proceedings to the regional body of the family bankruptcy service, the government office. The third substantial amendment: the debtor must only make the minimum return on the creditor until the maturity of the mortgage contract, and if the loan or financial leasing contract has already been terminated by the creditor, the debtor shall also be entitled to the benefit of performing the minimum return during a period corresponding to the duration of the term. The former lack of private bankruptcy procedure was considered by the large financial institutions as a sign of the lack of development of the Hungarian legal order, so the introduction of this legal institution was also important in this respect. Once again, I would like to emphasise what I said in my introduction to my Socialist fellow Member in response to the fact that we did not invent this legal institution, which is an institution in place and functioning in the western part of Europe. It began in 1984 with Denmark, in 1986 in the United Kingdom, in 1989 in France, then in Finland, Norway; Sweden, Austria, Germany introduced this law in 1994. We are convinced that, after the initial uncertainties, the law on family bankruptcy protection can provide protection for many, according to the National Bank, about 20,000 families; this, of course, requires the joint intention and cooperation of the three parties. Once again, I stress that it creates an opportunity for families to preserve human dignity, to make sacrifices, to ensure public cooperation and to help the credit institution not only protect against the loss of homes, but also to release part of the debt at the end of the term. I could encourage anyone whose home is at risk, to use this law submitted to him and the current amendment to make it easier. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-10-22-61	Mr President, Dear House, I myself took a deep breath and sighed, because I do not want this day to end in a personal debate, because it is much more important than that. At the same time, it would have been closer to me if the author had started all this by very screwing up, incredibly spoiling the work of the institution of family bankruptcy or private bankruptcy, putting in pointless narrowing conditions, since then the money has been thrown out at ministerial level - we do not yet know exactly what exactly - and compared to that, we stand to be able to open that gate for a very minimum number of tens of thousands of people to be helped. There's still room for restraint. In my view, it would be a measure of the size and human size of a government for its members, if they were to admit with a noble simplicity that they had measured that particular coat, misapplied the target audience, chose the wrong tool system for all of this, but now, with the help of Parliament, if appropriate, accepting improvements, let us work together on a system that could affect a wider range of victims. You are not doing this, but you are simply still talking about a successful, albeit slowly and gradually introduced model, which, as it has now been revealed, you have not invented, but it is only a spill-over foreign method. I'm saying that it would be fairer to play with open cards and admit that they've been very, very messed up, perhaps one of the biggest, capitulate strategic mistakes of the last five years by not listening to the warnings coming in in time. I do not just want to mention that 20 or 25 000 beneficiaries could have been involved in the private institution, because market estimates gave the basis here. By the way, one of the MNB's executive directors may have been the first to publish this estimated 20-25 000 number of beneficiaries. The problem was that, in my memory, he was not talking about the rightful ones, but that so many people would be able to use this opportunity during the first period, according to the most optimistic scenario. We had already warned you that the maximum number of right holders can be found here, since the intentions of a sane person cannot be met by 100% of what has been included in this basic version. So the fact that a deadline is now being imposed does not mean that the basics of the institution of family bankruptcy protection are acceptable. There are pointless limits, such as the fact that the debt must move between 100 and 200 percent of the assets. This is an unjustified narrowing of which they could not make any sense of even when we first raised it, and in the absence of such reasoning, it can be said that many people are excluded from the system. Let's think about this: if, in the case of a foreign exchange creditor, the property in which he lives is estimated, where appropriate, a distorted market estimate is made, say, by an agent of a bank or financial institution that is typical of the market, we add the artificially expanded debt, which, even after HUFing at the market rate, has preserved its size, it is very easy to come up with a situation, even in the case of a solvent victim or debtor, that this amount can reach a level of up to 200 per cent. And it has not been possible to pay enough attention to those who have a multifactorial system because of utility and other delays, so their absences are so much that it is a serious task to organize it; it would have been an opportunity within the private institution of bankruptcy. The amazing situation arose - even though it was not possible to settle at systemic level - that instead of successfully protecting the victims from the abuse of commercial banks, this government brought about a settlement that, when HUFed at market prices, ultimately contributed to people swallowing most of the losses. You then concluded an agreement with the EBRD that no solution or package would be introduced into this system, which would involve additional banks. By the way, they hold themselves to their word, so no one can argue this here, and the situation in Faramuc was that, although the commercial banks involved made the mistakes, you announced on a billboard that they would be accounted for, but if I say it once again in terms of market conditions - it is alarming and otherwise repulsive - a victim goes into the commercial bank, he may encounter more favourable conditions than the private failure's institution would offer him. So, if you have a problem with repaying your debt, you go to the bank, in connection with the restructuring of the loan, it is true that at the price of the extension of the term, you can get more favourable conditions than through the private bankruptcy facility you have submitted. In the same way, if a number of loans are accumulated, so there is a accumulation of utility and other loans, then bank credit redemptions may also take place under more favourable conditions than your private bankruptcy concept, and that is the real problem. [[12.00]] The real problem here is that the state needs a protective, caring, supportive hand, and not only by setting a single additional deadline, but also by expanding the range of people to be involved at systemic level, as the figures show that the number of contracts concluded is perhaps below 100. It is true that 500 people are interested in him, let us not argue with him, but even if there were a thousand or two thousand, that would be very little to the systemic change, and here, compared to the 20-25 thousand eligible numbers, it is certainly not enough. So when one of the leading speakers spoke of a legislative freak, it wasn't excessive at all. We are faced with amazingly narrowing terms, and a misapprehensive concept, the first amendment of which lies before us now, and it is perfectly apparent that this package bears the marks of the decisions of the Banking Association with which you have made a deal, and with which you have agreed not to put the victims in jeopardy, or at least not to ease their situation. So this is an incredible job, and it would still be possible to see this mistake, widen the circle of stakeholders - where are we now? If you look at the amount that can be used freely, which this concept allows for those concerned, who would choose to spend only one and a half times the amount that can be spent each in relation to the 28 500, i.e. the current minimum pension. Thus, a lower amount than a public worker's wage could remain in the case of a family of that size at a free-to-spend level for a family member. This has also been refuted in previous debates by KDNP representatives, the fact is that this is, and is, what we are facing. So there are constrictive circumstances in this system that have enabled you to achieve that out of the 20-25 thousand potential beneficiaries, it does not matter whether 100 or 500, but only a few hundred interested persons are able to make any use of anything at all. And it is unprecedented in international practice that the possibilities of walking right have not been mentioned in your system; that is to say, after five years of literal humiliation - because there is a very difficult situation here for those connected to the private bankruptcy institution - those who, in my view, have already lost the amount of debt that would have been justified by the commercial banks or financial institutions involved. Yet, after five years of private bankruptcy, one can't escape from the liquidation of one's debts and start a new life, that the concept of this didn't even come up, again there are two reasons. One is indiscretion, so you may not have thoroughly examined the international patterns where this is available and proven to be operational, and justice would also point to this. The other reason is absolutely clear: you do not break the pact with the Banking Alliance, you do not break the agreement with the EBRD, you act in this spirit. Thus, their room for manoeuvre is so narrowed down that, after all, their space of action is kept to a minimum. You can see, then, that this concept is absolutely unsuccessful, which could be a good one, because let's not forget that for those with higher incomes, for the lucky ones - let's think here, let's say, of the circle most benefiting by single-key taxation, with hundreds of thousands of HUF's salaries - a private bankruptcy can be measured here. But for some reason, even those in this group do not use or try to make use of this concept in large numbers. So it is quite simple to see that citizens in Hungary are not open to this form of assistance, even though they need help. It is only because, in terms of the moratorium on eviction, the government is in very bad shape, because after the date of April, it is the great silence that lies before us, and it must be said that it is not apparent when and how the government intends to finally bring itself to the field of action with regard to the moratorium on eviction. We also have to say that it is possible to take action to address the result of the problem, because if we look at a housing crisis in Hungary, I am not saying that, let us say, the number of social housing should be increased by magnitude, we should focus on the cause of the problem. I now recall that 1.5 percent of the national housing stock is social-based, so it's got a discount rate that people in the toughest line can pay for. But it is quite certain that the government could expand the supply of housing markets by investing zero forints, so I must bring in the VAT reduction of housing buildings from 27 to at least 5 per cent, which would make it possible to build 5 to 10 thousand real estates every year, even without government intervention, if we only think about the competitive market. This would provide lasting jobs for Hungarians and, in the long term, broadening the supply of housing would obviously also have a clear impact on prices. We must also say that it would also be inconvenient to put a state-based housing and housing program under the roof. The budgetary resources of this should also be allocated, as in a few years they will be reinvested in the system through the various multiplier effects. Overall, however, we must say that this private institution is not good enough for the company, because very bad PR is that only a few hundred of the 20-25 thousand beneficiaries wish to use it. There would still be great potential in it. So I'm asking the government to exercise restraint, to admit their mistake. Show its specific representatives, its human size and, by developing a common solution, make available to a much wider circle the model from which the inhumane and distressing conditions must be removed and include provisions that really help victims, whether by kicking the EBRD or the Bank Alliance pacts, but in any event by giving debtors a right to walk away, so after five years, the debtors can leave as free men after this incredibly difficult, restrictive period. This could, in my view, be a common national minimum, and Jobbik will, in this spirit, make its corrective proposals. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-10-22-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The law on family bankruptcy barely came into force in September, and it's already been amended. As we have learned from Congressman Harrach, less than 100 households have entered the private bankruptcy and the number of people interested is around 500. These numbers aren't even on the thank-you basis with the estimates the government made earlier. In the spring they threw 25 grand and even 40,000 numbers, while experts had already made the number of admissions up to a few thousand. We still don't know how the government guessed. The financial situation of troubled households was not even started until the bill was presented. Only then did the central bank start collecting data on debtors, although this data collection should obviously have preceded the development of regulation, only then could it have been possible to set realistic, realistic conditions and frameworks for private failure. Mr Harrach does not see the reason for the low interest in the hasty, unfounded, hasty legislation. According to KDNP, one of the reasons why the private failure is unpopular is that some media have a bad reputation, and the other is that banks are only moderately interested in participating in the programme and some of them are trying to prevent clients from coming to them. It is not likely that this is the case, but rather that they simply made the law wrong, but they refuse to see it. The amendments tabled show this. One is a deadline change. On the initiative of the first-stage debt settlement procedures, a one-off deadline will be granted until 1 March 2016, which in itself will certainly not be enough to increase the number of candidates. Another amendment states that it will be possible to lodge the application not only with the banks, but also with the bankruptcy services of government agencies. We see two problems in this. The administrative burden is reduced by the banks, but it is increasing on the side of the state. On the other hand, debt settlement is essentially a procedure between the client and creditors, all the necessary information relating to the client's eligibility for private bankruptcy is located with credit institutions, and it is therefore reasonable to submit an application there. This amendment may be able to increase the number of candidates, but only on paper. How much of this will become the number of people who actually meet the condition is another question. According to the third amendment, the minimum law setting the minimum rate of return on the creditor must not be fulfilled until the end of the fifth year of debt repayment, but until the end of the maturity. This also means that although the debtor may have some reduction in the burden during the debt settlement period, he will still have to repay his credit even after the bankruptcy proceedings are over. [[12.10]] This is also strange, because your privacy would have the very essence, as everywhere where it works in other countries, that the debtor will get rid of his debts by the end of the procedure, no longer have to moan about the details. Hungarian legislation is also unique in this: it will not only have to be crippled for five years, that is, too long anyway, but also for many more years. These amendments, from which we still cannot expect a breakthrough, are therefore just another hurrah-optimistic estimate by the KDNP of the 20,000 number of people visited by Mr Harrach. From the extension of the deadline, from the entry of government agencies and the minimum relaxation of conditions, it is not expected that the number of admissions will increase by 200 times, which requires substantial changes from the simplification of the terribly complicated rules to the introduction conditions which have been too rigorous to the regulation making the life of the debt-refunding debtor disproportionately difficult. As we have said several times, and professional organisations have also pointed out: the private bankruptcy can be too narrow, it can help few people, from September it was only open to people with house loans, and the restriction on other forms of debt will be lifted by 30 September 2016, which means that the possibility of private defaults and other debtors representing the majority of debtors will only be opened next year. This restriction should be lifted, which is not happening in the current amendment. Thus, too many barriers to entry reduce the range of potential users, in which there will also be no change. As we know, the debtor may owe at least HUF 2 million, up to HUF 60 million, with at least half of the debts covered by assets or income; an additional condition is that there must be a loan overdue for at least 90 days, which exceeds half a million forints. There are also other conditions that I no longer list. If that were not enough, the law would name 14 cases where no debt settlement procedure could be initiated. It is clear from all this that the government is imposing impossible conditions on debtors. Even if a person crosses this obstacle course, he may not be able to meet the conditions, because the law provides for a minimum annual repayment equal to 7.8 percent of the sales value of the mortgaged property, which means a monthly payment of HUF 65 thousand for a 10 million apartment. This amount is almost equal to the minimum wage, i.e. only those who earn around or above the average can be considered in the case of private bankruptcy. In order for others to have a realistic opportunity, or a lower repayment rate, or not to be adjusted to the value of the property's turnover, but to the solvency of the debtor. But let's keep going. Private bankruptcy is not necessarily attractive even to those who can pay this high repayment, because the law is very strict and puts the debtor's disposable income within absolute limits. The retention income is set at one-and-a-half times the old-age pension minimum. In the case of a family of three, this is HUF 128 thousand, while the minimum living value of the KSH is HUF 210,000, calculated on a family of two adults with one child. Obviously, you can see that 128,000 forints is not enough for three people to make a living in a month for five years. We have previously suggested that the wage to be spent should not be tied to the retirement pension minimum, which has been frozen for years, but to the minimum of living, but that you have also refused to do so. Nor is it one of the strengths of private bankruptcy that there is no guarantee that the debtor will not lose his apartment or that if he has to move to another apartment, that apartment must meet exactly what conditions. The law did not define the concept of real estate with characteristics not exceeding the so-called reasonable housing requirement, it was referred to the level of government decree - we do not know that the regulation that accurately describes this has been published since then. We have also tabled an amendment to this, in which we would have taken over the definition of Eurostat, but you have also said no to this. We also have no guarantee in the law that if someone, let's say, loses their job in the five years of debt settlement and can no longer pay the repayments, they will not be on the street. Without social housing, this remains a realistic option. Private bankruptcy, in its present form, is available to very few people, most of the about 182 thousand debtors are not a solution, not to mention those who have different or smaller debts, such as reclaims or rent debts. To deal with the debt crisis, it would be necessary to review the rules of private bankruptcy and other ways of settling debt, which is also available to the masses of those in need. We need complex debt management programmes: restoring and extending debt reduction aid and debt management advice, partly debt relief, debt restructuring, right to walk away and active housing policy instruments, and, above all, social housing. The housing crisis, the problem of indebtedness, can only be addressed by comprehensive housing policy measures. Housing aid and advice are needed for those in need in order to prevent the accumulation of debts. In addition, housing policy measures are needed to help create the social housing sector. To do so, a public housing fund could be created and ways of involving vacant private dwellings in the community housing sector should also be found. The housing crisis in Hungary will continue and mass debt will be a problem until there are sufficient social and community rentals at affordable prices - it is only a matter of political will. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-22-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker's speeches, and I do not see an independent Member in the Chamber, and obviously none of you would like to comment. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2015-10-22-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just in order to enable everyone to decide, TV viewers and voters will be able to list HUF 626 million as many or few, i.e. HUF 253.6 million for the Justice Office within the chapters of the Ministry of Justice, of which 17 persons, HUF 40.5 million for the establishment of the central judicial service, HUF 23.1 million for the training of 100 persons for one week, HUF 200 million for the operation and operation of the national public debt management service, professional helpdesk, HUF 190 million for the Ministry of Interior, the establishment of the necessary information communication services, the storage of the public-credit private bankruptcy register and the preparation of an electronic form filling programme and a pre-filtering programme, HUF 200 million for the establishment of family bankruptcy services for the departments of Budapest and County government offices within the chapter of the Prime Minister's Office, HUF 60, 173.1 million for the preparation of an electronic form filling programme and a pre-filter program. I think people will be able to decide whether it's a lot or not, just for credibility. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-22-66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, KDNP. [[12.20]]
u2015-10-22-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to some of the opposition opinions that have been expressed. On the one hand, we may all acknowledge that we have seen irresponsible foreign exchange lending practices on the part of the banks in recent years, and if the opposition, the MSZP or Jobbik had their own proposal on family bankruptcy, I think they would have submitted it already. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Submitted!]] before this House. However, this came to the House because of the KDNP's own initiative, which, in addition, introduced a new legal institution and addressed a current problem, but also provided a long-term solution to individuals who have the possibility of settling debt under a regulated framework. Let me respond to two specific opposition remarks. I thank Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for presenting these cost elements. It is clear from this that your criticism would be justified if these were constantly incurred costs, but it is clear from your presentation that these are one-off items, the costs of setting up the system, costs of a long-term system likely to last for several decades, and they will no longer apply. The second point is that for Dániel Z. Carpathian, who said that victims would encounter more favourable conditions in bank restructuring. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I did not say that!]] As in family bankruptcy, the situation is that those who came to us have reported the opposite. It has been reported that it is necessary to involve the family bankruptcy service, because the banks are not cooperating, they are not helping them, rather than proposing bank restructuring, but proposing nothing for them, they are not helpful, which is why it is important to propose an amendment now that the application can be submitted to the family bankruptcy service as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-68	Thank you very much. I give you the floor Bangóné Barbél... - [[For signal:]] Two-minute comments by Dániel Z. Karpát, and then by Congresswoman Bangóné.
u2015-10-22-69	Mr President, Dear House, I would also take the opportunity to clarify Mr Hollik's amazing carelessness and omissions. The thing is, I didn't put it that way, and you ruined your quote, look back. I didn't say at all that the banks were providing favourable conditions - from Jobbik's foreign exchange credit manager - that would have been very strange. All I said was that your shame is that the terms of the banks are even more favourable than the private bankruptcy concept you have developed, although none of them are favourable. The fact is that none of these solutions are ideal, but you have expressed criticism that your only excuse may have been that you have not yet been here in Parliament, so you may not know that not only Jobbik, but several opposition forces have repeatedly submitted the concept of private bankruptcy. If it is your excuse that you have not yet been here in Parliament, then it would be a dog's duty to look further into who and what you have submitted in this area, especially because your party has already used it as a campaign element in the 2010 campaign to bring in the concept of private bankruptcy, and then Hungary has suffered about five years of delay due to your prodigy and your vomitity, because they have not been able to develop this concept, which was submitted to the Hungarian Parliament in the middle of the previous term, but it has been withdrawn without passing through it, and they have continued to stall for years, while the banks have gone their way. It was just filed when they had already made a deal with these banks. That's why I'm asking you to be self-conscious and sweep before you give criticism. Is it a shame, is it a shame that you've been campaigning with it in 2010, bringing it in five years late, and helping a hundred people? ! Shame! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-70	Thank you very much. And now I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-10-22-71	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would also like to respond to what my fellow Member from KDNP has said. I also said in my keynote speech that we had submitted a complex bill more than four years ago, and then it was submitted several times, and it was constantly swept off the table. And when the private bankruptcy institution was finally negotiated in 2015 in Parliament, we also submitted amendments to it. I would just like to mention a few differences in the difference between the private institution submitted and the amendments tabled by us. The MSZP proposal would open the possibility for all debtors to settle the debt, while the proposal submitted at the time contains a number of restrictions, which exclude a significant proportion of debtors from the procedure. One of these was that in 2015, only families with foreign currency loans could have entered the debt settlement and then only from 2016 can those with public utility debt join. The MSZP bill not only allows the opening of proceedings when the debtor is already 90 days late, but also in the event of a risk of insolvency. The other point that was different from yours in our submitted material is that, from the point of view of the debtors, the main virtue of the MSZP proposal is that it does not provide for a minimum return. Therefore, if the debtor survives the five years of the permanent repayment period, he shall be exempt from any further debts. The third point: the MSZP proposal does not detract income as much as your proposal. The next point: the MSZP's proposal already gives the court and the administrator a significant role in the whole procedure, no out-of-court proceedings. So, it's just a few points because we didn't put in any modifications. In response to the fact that these are one-off expenses: I don't know; if the labour cost is one-off, do you think that this will be closed from December and that there will be no more wage expenditure? Also, taking the last period of operation of the Fidesz-KDNP to say that the operating costs of the website and the electronic system are not one-off expenditure: that arises every year, honourable Member. So even if these are only one-off expenses, it can be said that you believe that this HUF 626 million is a one-off, that you have not been able to help anyone, because otherwise the Ministry of Justice reported zero people in a press conference a few weeks ago. So, it would be good, then we'll ask you a written question about where we stand, whether we're at zero or ten or a hundred, or where we're at now in the number of candidates who basically started the debt settlement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-22-72	Thank you, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Mr. Péter Harrach, leader of the faction, will be on the floor.
u2015-10-22-73	There's a good campaign vibe, and I don't want to get involved in this, but I'd like to mention a few things that haven't been said before. The basic situation that this amendment of the law enters was that people were in danger of being executed, that is, bankruptcies, which put not only the loss of home, but the further family life at risk. Now, from this situation, family bankruptcy will help you recover. Normal people can't argue with that. What are you arguing about? How few people have used it so far. Of course! It's starting now, and I'm going to say it again, as international practice says, it's gonna take years for it to run up, but if someone's in great danger, they're obviously gonna use this help. Let me tell you that during the preparation of the law, there have been many long consultations, not just with the wallets, the National Bank, the advocacy organisations, and on this basis this extremely thorough and long law was born. In addition to avoiding the risk of implementation, it is worth mentioning the waiver of part of the debt. Of course, it doesn't work that we don't pay proper repayments, and then we let them all go; we have to fix a repayment in a contract agreed by the three parties that the family can pay. And we haven't talked about the asset manager. After all, family bankruptcy is not the only institution capable of recovering from this wretched situation, but there is the opportunity for the poorer, the poorer, the asset manager. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-22-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-10-22-75	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that the debate has come back to a calmer level and that there are also issues of expertise. I have one question to ask Mr. Harrach, which advocacy organisations have been consulted during the drafting of the law, if, of course, this is public, I do not wish to be indiscreet. [[12.30]] Also, what organizations, which protect or represent the victims, did they sit down to negotiate, exchange ideas during the process? I ask all this because Jobbik is not ashamed to learn from the better, so we have completed the foreign exchange-credit round table, where, at the invitation of Gábor Vona, we have invited representatives from the Bank Association, the NGM and all the parties in all these cases. Here, we were just a negotiating partner at the table, and we were enriched with a lot of professional ammunition, and we were injured by a lot of professional knowledge from practical life, from the conference rooms, where we may not be so homely-moving representatives that we should say that, based on these experiences, they could predict these dangers, and they could warn us why the private institution would not be able to spread widely in the first stage. So my question is short and to the point: which professional organisations have been consulted? If this information can be shared with us, it is easy to narrow down whether these two circles of experts are the same, or whether these information and very important good advice were available at the stage of the work or not. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck for two minutes, LMP.
u2015-10-22-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Actually, I have a question for Mr Harrach. In his previous two-minute comment, he said that the three parties considered the solvency of the family and adjusted the repayment. But we know that the law requires that 7,8 percent of the market price for residential property be repaid annually. For a ten-million-dollar apartment in Budapest, it is not possible to say that it is a high-value property, if you look at the monthly payment of this property, it is a minimum of 65 thousand forints per month. Now, in order for a family to be able to pay 65,000 forints a month, it is certain that families with average income or higher than average income are required. So the question is how to adjust it when there is a minimum legal obligation to pay the monthly instalment.
u2015-10-22-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2015-10-22-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All people are important. If we can save two people, it's also very important because we can get two people out of trouble. But there was constant communication when we discussed the law in preparation that 20-25 thousand families will be saved with this program this year. Well, then you really should look at it if only a few people came forward that not the people, the media, the banks are the main ones to blame, but the law itself has the flaw, because it didn't work out for this 20-25 thousand people! Well, we're very far away, there's a huge difference between 100 and 25,000 people, and we're just asking you not to stick to a bad law, but then we're going to review whether it's really not the law, that the law is wrong, and then we're going to have to change it, and we're not just going to make these make-believes, because we're afraid we're not going to be able to help a thousand people. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-22-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. After the two-minute round, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach for a normal speech. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-10-22-81	Mr President, Dear House, One small remark: you said just now that 20-25 thousand people are using it this year, we said. We didn't say, the National Bank said, at most, when they asked, we quoted them. But not this year. Dear Congresswoman, you regularly misread the statements. Who said this year? Can you answer that? No, because no one told me. But let's not have this debate, because it's getting a little low. Let's talk about the law. So again, the starting point is that in Hungary there are about 100,000 families with serious difficulties in paying. Of these, the National Bank believes that family bankruptcy offers opportunities for about 20-25 thousand people. To accept this opportunity must be the intention of the family. We have the opportunity to quantify the intention of the families involved. So whether they're gonna sign up or not, it's up to them. That they still have two options, or maybe three, if their financial situation changes, they pay off themselves, the other option is to accept implementation, which is much worse than any other option, and the third is that if they cannot take on the opportunity offered by family bankruptcy, then the asset manager's offer will certainly be considered. Of course, when it comes to social issues, including the provision of housing conditions, other social measures may be involved. There has been talk of tenements, it has been mentioned, some banks have raised the idea, for example, that they have many empty apartments in their possession, and some construction could be invented, but this is not the subject of this law. This requires the application of another measure, either law, regulation or any legislation. But we're talking about family bankruptcy, which, again, is an opportunity. You can argue how to open the door wide so that more people can fit into it. The concept was developed in the course of the negotiations by first allowing the narrower circle and then opening it wider, which also appeared on the condition that first they were in danger of their home and then those with other debts could join in. I see two great advantages of this law: suspension of enforcement and remission at the end of the term. And again, it's just one of the elements of a complex system. There was still something not mentioned here, since, at the time of the introduction of the law, we mentioned this several times, that there was also a possibility of State aid to supplement the repayment, so that the example mentioned by one of my fellow Members on the amount can be reduced by this State aid granted under a separate decision. So again, we hope that the start of the implementation process will create a situation where every family will use family bankruptcy or asset manager to escape this danger. This is not a desire, but unfortunately it is a sad situation, which may be solved by what we have offered in this law. And yet another thought has been expressed today. Indeed, the banks seem to have a moderate interest in maintaining the system. Therefore, their information is sometimes incomplete; I think I put it quite delicately. That is why we introduce it as an amendment that it is possible to apply to the Family Services. This too, we hope, will increase the number of users of the legal institution. Once again, anyone who may not have received adequate information from the financial institution or through the media should try to look into the service website and, in my opinion, financial institutions themselves should exercise more information skills, but stakeholders and stakeholders should really seek out these otherwise existing information opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.40]]
u2015-10-22-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-10-22-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, When the general debate of the original bill took place here in Parliament, everyone agreed on the principles. Everyone had some kind of diversity, but basically such a bill must be adopted, that it can help many people in Hungary too - according to our calculations, according to the National Bank's calculations, it can help tens of thousands of people - the introduction of family bankruptcy protection, also known as private housing, debt settlement, consumer bankruptcy, was a clear consensus in this, even because in different countries, with different results, but we have seen that from Austria to Germany, from France to Great Britain, there is some way of family bankruptcy protection everywhere. I think it is important to point out that at this beginning there was consensus. It is obvious that a opposition party is obviously looking for something in every bill or finding something to oppose, but the principle, the intention, the motivation was consensual on everyone's part. This amendment, which we are currently discussing here in Parliament, is a wider door, because, on the one hand, it means more entry for more people, that you can now submit your own application not only to the principal creditor, not only to the bank, but also elsewhere, to the family bankruptcy services of government agencies. It's an expansion, it's an extra opportunity, it helps as many people as possible to get it. I think this can be supported by common sense and common sense. The other part, which does not extend the access points at the entry virtually physically, but pushes out the possibility of those who previously had a foreign exchange loan in time, has switched it to a forint loan, and would expire on certain deadlines and push it out in time, is also a broadening, as a wider circle will be able to access the possibility of starting the case later. It is important to stress that family bankruptcy protection itself is an open-ended option, since not only until October, not only until next September, but also gradually opens from month to month, year to year, the right-holder circle is gradually expanding, so it can be submitted in 2-3 years from now, but regardless of this, there is a narrow circle, who has only a limited time, we push it out to him, but for everyone else who is not in this narrow circle, he has an unlimited opportunity to submit it. So both directions are potential-enhancing, entitlement-enhancing, helper, and I think that is why both are eligible for support from everyone. I don't think it's possible to mess with a lot of things with common sense, but it's hard to accept that opening doors wouldn't be eligible. What is the fundamental contradiction since the introduction in practice is that we see that the number of people interested is high. Many people go up to the website, many read the brochures there, many called into government offices, many went into government offices personally, some wrote e-mails, this number is high; however, the proportion of real procedures launched is low, several zeroes less. How is it possible that many people have read about it in the news, and when the legal institution starts, when they are looking for a way to start, many people are trying to start the procedure, but they do not start these procedures? There may be a problem here, that not everyone who is motivated to try to get help in this way is not starting this, and this has been mentioned several times here in the debate, that it may be possible that the main agents so far, the lords of the case, the main creditors - usually the banks - may not have provided enough help, it may only have been shown that the form is thick, but they have not said that by completing a line or two, 5-6 pages can be moved, because the majority of the boxes can be pulled over and progress quickly in this. Perhaps this kind of help that family bankruptcy services can provide will open a door for many, open the possibility that they might actually be able to take advantage of the opportunity they were very interested in earlier. Of course, it is worth living with the introduction of foreign examples, and we have all done this, and the only thing to distinguish is that when we quote very different numbers, primarily, say, from England or North America, where the legal institution called walking away was introduced, that is a completely different legal system. There is no continental country in Europe that would have introduced a similar way. Ours is the closest to the German model, it has been in France perhaps since one of the oldest, which is also such an opportunity, but in the international comparison, it is important to be careful who we compare ourselves with, because not all examples can be transferred to Hungary. We hope that more and more people will see their own opportunities in this, as family bankruptcy protection is a new benefit, to which the possibility of access is extended by this bill, which is the only option now that, by law, helps people to release part of their debt after a certain period of time and period of cooperation. There is no other way in the Hungarian legal system today that someone, as a private individual, can go through a legal procedure and comply with their duty of cooperation there, will be exempt from some of their debt. This is an opportunity, a kind of help that was not in Hungary, it would have been good if it had been in the previous ones, but no one could find another way to get rid of part of their debt, so we trust that by opening the gates wider, others will be able to start on this helpful path. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed, and since Mr State Secretary is preparing, he obviously wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-22-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here the speakers made their own readings about the amendment in quite detail, and even about the basic concept itself. Thank you very much for everyone's activity, and really, on this basis, you can really well shape the text of a piece of legislation. Péter Harrach, my fellow group member, as KDNP, is also the representative of the petitioner's side of the previous law, described in detail the circumstances of the establishment of the law. I would just like to point out a few things about what has been said in the debate. On the one hand, there was an observation as to why this law was only recently adopted and that there were previous initiatives. Let's say, in the earlier initiative of the MSZP, it was forgotten that the original concept left out the entire range of mortgage lenders, and this is therefore a very important category of users. What I would like to say is that since 2010, there have been several things happening here on the front of debtors. If we just think about the introduction of a moratorium on coercive sales and enforcement in mortgage loans, which is probably partly one of the reasons for the current inactivity, it is assumed that the enforcement moratorium has given debtors a sense of security, and now they have to react practically to the new situation if it runs out. The second was the introduction of the exchange rate barrier, which also eased the settlement of debts, and the introduction of end-payments at the front of foreign exchange loans, followed by the clearing of banks and the forinting; all of them were steps that could not have created a clean situation that introduced this new legal institution in a uniform legal environment. The role of the Asset Manager has also been mentioned, so it is also partly available to debtors in the future and provides housing. It was noted that a range of debtors could not avail themselves of this possibility after a much lower threshold should have been set here. The problem here is probably that they would not have been able to make use of the loans they would now have had to enter this circle. There has been a claim that the law does not ensure the settlement of debts arising from several sectors: in contrast, it provides. With regard to the right to walk away, the debt waiver: for example, in the settlement of foreign currency loans in itself, the forinting and accountability improved the position of the debtors by up to 30 percent, so it is worth taking this factor into account when comparing them with current terms or even when comparing them with bank terms. [[12.50]] It was an accusation from Jobbik that we had an agreement with the banks. Financial stability, the financing of economic operators and the provision of new housing loans have made this step necessary. And the fact that banks can offer better conditions today is precisely the result of this agreement. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck had an observation that the announcement of these matters would be better placed than the banks. It was a period of time, and there wasn't enough activity. Banks are not always interested in such solutions, so it is also necessary to provide an opportunity for debtors to be informed widely and taking into account their interests, since the interest of the banks does not always coincide with that of the debtors. The rental of private apartments. The Constitution and the provisions on the protection of private property should be reviewed as to whether or not a programme can be put in place to involve them, but it is clear that this is not possible without financial involvement. I believe that, overall, there has been a proposal for an amendment, the results of which we will be able to assess in about a year's time how many people have actually been able to live with it, how much activity there has been and how much it will really be possible to assess the effectiveness of the law. Thank you once again for your contribution and I will ask for your support for this proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill amending certain laws necessary for the protection of consumers in the course of the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods will follow. Presentation by Christian Democrats Zsolt Semjén, Péter Harrach, János Latorcai, György Rubovszky, András Aradszki, Miklós Seszták, Bence Rétvári and Imre Vejkey T/5486. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2015-10-22-87	Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to start with some good news, I'm not going to fill in the 30 minutes, but I would like to explain this problem and finally the amendments to the law that might address this issue, or at least mitigate the problem. These amendments are suitable for dealing with abuse of goods sales linked to the presentation of goods. There are countless examples of this: hundreds of thousands of HUF healing miracle lamps, bed linen sets, cleaning machines with extra properties, pulsed magnetic devices. They are offered for this purpose by entrepreneurs who are set up to sell them and are trying to deceive people who, because of their age or health, tend to accept these offers. Some discounts are mentioned, and stakeholders feel that in return they are grateful for the purchase of products at high prices. This year, the KDNP fraction announced a consultation on this issue in two directions. On the one hand, he asked the interested parties, who made their complaints by letter, e-mail, telephone, and on the other hand, we negotiated with the authorities. I would not like to read details of the letters that spoke about this, but it is typical of each one, or at least most of them, that they take the people involved on a trip, in most cases pensioners, and there they offer - one example is - for example, a cleaning machine that was offered at a very good price, for 600 thousand HUF, and finally, winners were drawn, giving this machine a bit cheaper. With such and similar means, they eventually won a few people and then offered a loan agreement, since there is obviously no such amount for those involved. We discussed this issue with the National Consumer Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Authority. The Consumer Protection Authority has known this problem for years. Let me say: the results of the 2013 and 2014 investigations have shown that more than 60 percent of the cases have been violated and more than 50 percent of the cases are considered unfair commercial practices, such as prompt decision-making. We have also seen, obviously, that many television programmes have dealt with this problem. With regard to product presentations, it can be concluded that this is one of the traditional forms of trade where, by its nature, consumers require increased protection. In many cases, they are disguised as health health checks; they take advantage of the willingness of many to do anything to preserve health; they consider certain products, whether they are real or not, suitable for regaining or preserving health; they offer prizes; they create an atmosphere where refusal to buy can be unpleasant or humiliating. Customers can't really get to know the fine print contracts they get them to sign. Most importantly, the right of withdrawal is guaranteed by the law, but the traders concerned make it impossible to terminate because they cannot be reached. That's exactly what one of the laws will apply. Three amendments were included. The amendment to the Trade Act also defines the concept of the supply of goods linked to the presentation of goods, which reads as follows:. The retail activity organised by the trader or the person acting on his behalf or for the benefit of the person for the purpose of presenting and marketing the product. A trader selling goods linked to a display of goods shall ensure the handling, investigation and repair of consumer notifications and the provision of customer service in order to inform consumers either at his place of business or at his premises and at his branch. This is very important because this makes the trader who tricked the parties into buying available. Personal or written, telephone or electronic handling should also be possible. The customer service office shall be open for at least one day of the week until 20 hours. The provisions aim at ensuring that companies selling products cannot disappear, that consumers can reach them even after buying and that they are able to exercise the right of withdrawal in practice. [[13.00]] The Consumer Protection Authority will act in the event of a breach of these requirements. The second amendment is an amendment to the law on the basic conditions and limitations of economic advertising activity. In the amendment, we propose to prohibit the sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods from being advertised with a gift application and a gift roll. It can be concluded from practice that this is a way of making this form of sales popular among consumers. The third amendment is an amendment to the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises. It would therefore be prohibited to provide financial services in the course of the supply of goods linked to the presentation of goods. We know that some banks are happy to cooperate with these salesmen who deliver goods and offer credit on the spot to tricked customers. Of course, this does not mean that a contract cannot be concluded with a financial firm, a credit institution, for the purpose of this purchase, but not on the spot, either in the bus or in the showroom. To sum up, I have to say that, on the basis of the investigations carried out by the authorities in recent years, on the basis of the complaints that we have requested from consumers, there is no delay in effectively amending the laws in order to protect a vulnerable, identifiable group of consumers. I call on my fellow Members to support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-22-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Ákos Kara says yes. It's for the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-22-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, An important law for the Hungarian people, for the Hungarian families, will be brought before Parliament. Thank you to those who have been involved in your work, who have been determined in recent months, in recent years, to produce such a draft legislation. The government is determined to do so. In several speeches, when we negotiated a consumer protection law, I myself indicated that I would consider one of these necessary. It seems that the many intentions were in the same direction and were in the right direction. The Ministry of National Development will support the submitted bill, which is a strict framework for the operation of commodity companies specialising in the tricking of customers, as will the government, of course. Let us briefly summarise the most important elements of the bill before us. These are all positive elements from the point of view of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. So we are introducing customer service standards to clarify what can and cannot be done at such a display. It is an important element of the ban on advertising free benefits. And we would like to take a very strong step in the context of credit mediation. This would mean that at the presentations the possibility of a credit transfer would be abolished. We see that measures can end the deception of older people, pensioners, at product shows, if it is allowed to bring this term here from newspapers, and put an end to the cutting-off of older people at such events. The sale of goods linked to the presentation of goods is one of the traditional forms of trade where the nature of the transaction requires increased protection for consumers. We want to create this increased protection with this legislation. In most cases, businesses target lonely elderly people, pensioners, organize programmes for them, as has been said, excursions, and many of them feel that they should use the word "thank you" and buy miracle products offered at a high price that they really do not need. It should be pointed out that product presentations away from the place of residence, combined with organised travel, show consumers, buyers and elderly people show an atmosphere that even return without purchase may seem uncertain. I have to say that this is a completely diabolical attitude on the part of businesses engaged in this type of activity, if you can call them that. We have actually heard countless examples - whether from our immediate environment or through the media - of hundreds of thousands of HUF healing wonder lamps, bedding sets, pulsed magnetic devices, laser brain stimulators, cleaning machines with extra properties. On the basis of the above, these products are specifically intended to be sold to consumers who are vulnerable to their age and are more easily influenced because of their credulity, often using unfair commercial practices. For example, when making immediate decisions about those there. Ladies and gentlemen, I brought you a small collection. [[He's showing it to me.]] This is also significant in itself, how many people are dealing with this issue, but the many of these are the approaches that reveal problems in different news articles, all the way down to the details, which I think I may be able to anticipate before the debate, that we have a very serious social expectation that we should make this law, and that we should make these strict rules. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, for example, an immediate decision may result from the fact that the payment of products sold in this way, in the absence of self-esteem, in many cases constitutes a heavy financial burden, the taking up of expensive loans for the families concerned, the negative consequences of which may have the effect for many years. It is also common practice for companies that organise display-of-goods activities, presentations, to be announced as a health screening or health check, as a free health check. The health-preservation performances that have been announced in such a way - of course quoting - are usually attractive to older people because they assume that they can find a cure for their medical problems that have not been diagnosed at these events in a timely manner, or find solutions to their existing health problems. This is supposed to be confirmed by the persons present in the affected, mostly elderly, leaflets, e.g. in medical robes. I am all drawing attention to this so that we can identify exactly what we are talking about and how widespread we are talking about fraud and deception - that is the exact expression - when we talk about this subject. The audit experience shows that the lectures announced as screening tests were carried out by persons who had no medical education at all or who had previously worked in other areas. In fact, a significant proportion of the products sold at these presentations do not have those beneficial characteristics, and in many cases they are ineffective. Many sick people turn away from traditional medical treatments confidently in such. So there is a huge risk of this activity. It can also be seen that these products are significantly overpriced compared to goods of a similar nature which are normally traded in the ordinary course of trade. It is clear that companies are only willing until the sale contract is concluded and the product is delivered, and then they become unavailable to consumers. This is particularly true of the loans they transmit, as our fellow Member Harrach said, because in case of possible default, consumers are already facing one bank. [[13.10]] The problems that the Consumer Protection Authority has known for many years are typical of the activities of commodity companies, and accordingly, the control of the form of sales has been in the public authority's cross-section for many years, and this is done diligently by the authority. In recent years, the Consumer Protection Authority has experienced a large number of infringements by businesses during the inspections carried out on product presentations and during the investigation of consumer complaints received, which have deceived and harmed the audience visiting the presentations, and I repeat that they are typically pensioners. I can give you accurate data for 2013, and I can give you a summary of one year: in this case 173 goods shows were checked, 118 of which were found by supervisors. So this objection rate is about 70 percent, 68 percent, to be exact. It was 53 percent of the presentations under investigation, so there was some unfair commercial practice in half. In general, it can therefore be said that the infringements occurred in a cumulative manner at such contested events. Data for 2013, but it is a specific number, that 625 consumer submissions were sent to the then regional inspectorate. In 190 of the 625, the majority complained that their right of withdrawal based on legislation, so to get rid of these dubious products and services, could not enforce it against the organizing companies, i.e. after having changed their mind, because of the company's inaccessibleness, they could not return these - let's call it - miracle products and, of course, get the purchase price back. Let's see what this looked like in 2014. We have already examined these areas once again in the studies of the Consumer Protection Authority, and we have tried to place great emphasis on this. We have placed great emphasis on it precisely so that, as long as the legislation is in place, we will be able to set the strictest possible framework for those engaged in such activities. With regard to 99 commodity presentations, 68 cases of infringement have been detected by supervisors, so we can say again that 7 out of 10 infringements occurred in the last year, 2014, i.e. there have been cases of a show of goods that the company has tried to persuade consumers to buy the product through psychic pressure, which is an aggressive commercial practice, during the sale. There'll be some data in 2014 that I'm going to tell you. 780 consumer complaints were received from our regional supervisors regarding the activities of the companies organising or operating the display of goods. In the majority of submissions, 236 cases were complained of by consumers, as I said earlier, that they could not return the product or get the purchase price back. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, From the above, it is clear to us that this form of sales cannot continue within the current framework, because it is seriously damaging people, families and consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that in terms of consumer protection, we are trying to carry out a thoughtful, interrelated legislative process in the Hungarian Parliament, so from January 2014 the Consumer Protection Authority, by means of an earlier amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, will impose a fine in the first instance if, for example, it experiences an infringement of older people or people with disabilities. As a result of this amendment, it should not be without penalties if, for example, elderly people are targeted at product presentations. Ladies and gentlemen, When we discussed this law, we ourselves anticipated the need for legislation that this House is now negotiating. In order to ensure better control of the official controls of product presentations, it has been stipulated in the Government Decree on the conditions for carrying out certain commercial activities from 2014 that the undertakings organising the product presentation must notify the notary of the event to be held at least 15 days earlier and the exact location and time of the journey to be carried out. The direction was good in our view, but it is necessary to establish few, even more stringent rules, as we predicted at the time for the House, for the public, for everyone who listens to this kind of activity. Ladies and gentlemen, Many customers are specifically attracted by the free services offered in product presentation advertisements, to be delivered at these events. On the basis of the bill submitted, it will not be possible to use bait in product presentations with the promise of offering gifts or giving gifts and thus lure consumers and buyers into such display. We have received many legitimate complaints from consumers, in which they describe in detail that companies are only willing to buy expensive products, then disappear, become unavailable, and therefore customers cannot exercise their legal right of withdrawal. This is avoided in the bill by requiring the provision of personal and telephone customer service at the company's headquarters, premises or branch. Ladies and gentlemen, We think it's worth considering the requirement of county-level customer service. This will be discussed by my fellow Members, I think, in Parliament, who will deal with this issue, whether this is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, most customers do not have enough money to buy expensive junk at the shows, so companies are very willing to convey consumer loans to the deceived people at the showcase. However, after the conclusion of the credit agreement, the buyer is no longer in a relationship with the company organising the presentation, but with a financial institution, and at that time he is faced with the significant, serious financial burden of the rash, in many cases hasty decision, as well as the serious legal consequences of non-payment. According to the bill, it will no longer be possible to provide a financial service at the point of presentation, if, in the absence of self-esteem, the buyer decides to buy the product, then he will be able to contact a financial institution of his choice, where, based on professional information, he can decide on possible borrowing in thoughtful and calm circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, In fact, prior to the submission of the bill, representatives of the Christian Democratic People's Party were consulted, indeed, consulted, and, in view of the untenable situation in the area of display of goods, we are indeed firmly saying that decisive legislative action is needed. The process of conciliation bodies facilitates a simple, quick and free solution to consumer disputes arising from product presentations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have recently discussed this issue, the conciliation bodies, in this House, with a great deal of support and thoroughness, in my faith and belief. In order to improve the situation of vulnerable consumers, the government prepared for Parliament, and so at the end of the spring session we accepted the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act in this direction. Under the new rules which entered into force in September of this year, which entered into force a few weeks ago, the undertaking is obliged to ensure the participation of the person authorised to conclude an agreement on behalf of the company in the conciliation panel procedure. Where the company's head office or establishment is not registered in the county of the territorially competent conciliation body, the undertaking's obligation to cooperate shall be to make a written agreement appropriate to the needs of the consumer, i.e. to offer the possibility of a written settlement. I would like to remind my fellow Members that we have left this opportunity in for the protection of very small companies. In the event of non-compliance with the abovementioned obligation, the compulsory penalty shall be imposed. On the basis of the above, it is therefore our view that product show companies should not be excluded from the conciliation procedure, so it is expected that consumer needs will be able to obtain a meaningful solution, obviously within the strict framework that is now both the author and the government's intention. Ladies and gentlemen, Strong state action is, in my view, a matter of urgency, and therefore the government continues to place great emphasis on the continued monitoring of legislation on the subject. If necessary, we need to intervene in order to protect consumers, families and elderly people, so that older people, consumers and consumers are not harmed in Hungary. The amendment on the agenda of the Parliament was submitted to ensure the effective protection of Hungarian families, elderly people and pensioners. This form of sales is currently one of the most serious tasks of Hungarian consumer protection. Such companies, I would use that term, are using increasingly repulsive, more aggressive methods. [[13.20]] The purpose of this amendment is to eliminate the unsustainable situation in the supply of goods linked to the presentation of goods in order to safeguard consumers' rights. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, then, I would like to say once again that the government is determined to regulate this area strictly by introducing customer service standards, by prohibiting advertising of free benefits, by eliminating the possibility of credit placement at the presentations. And if my fellow Members still have patience, I would briefly like to refer to the fact that in some places we will propose clarification on the compliance with the law and the achievement of the will of the law at all. I hope that, during the parliamentary and Commission debates, we will be able to discuss these precise approaches and proposals thoroughly. So we're going to want to clarify the proposal for customer service, and then what I'm referring to in my speech, when you're trying to sell some service or goods in a way where there's a product show linked to travel, we think you should record that you're obligated to return to the original site. We'd also like to suggest the 12th. the clarification of the article, the addition of the gift application, the promotion of a discount, a discount or a financial advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, Thank you very much for your patience. I would like to draw the attention of all of you and those who are watching Parliament's work. This would be that the bill itself would enter into force next year. This may mean that, until the beginning of next year, until these restrictions enter into force, the organizers of the display of goods, especially those who organise the display in some fraudulent way, will cheer. So, in the coming weeks, many, many people will be deceived to try to achieve business success within the current framework until the adoption or entry into force of the law. So let us draw the attention of families, consumers and customers together, in the coming weeks these fraudulently organized display of goods will be organized more frequently, more aggressively sought by the parties, and in the few weeks ahead we may not be able to be sure, but it is likely that in the few weeks ahead, they will be under great pressure to sell those craps, merchandise and unnecessary items to the extent that, at the beginning of next year, I hope, according to the Parliament's forthcoming decision, so until these laws enter into force, they will be able to continue their activities. I would like to draw the attention of those involved, the attention of those watching our work. Thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Törő, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-22-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we're browsing the news about product shows, we don't see a lot of positives. Some of the headlines from the news are:, More tricks to watch at the product launches; or:,, Terrorize the elderly at the product launches; or:, With a deadly disease and even tearing; or:, With these new methods they try to trick the unsuspecting buyer, pensioners.On the basis of a list of not very flattering and far from complete, I think it is just time for us to take action against this very harmful and primarily defenseless elderly practice with the tools of the law. In March this year, the National Consumer Protection Authority reported in a press release that the regional consumer inspectorates carried out official controls at 99 product presentations in 2014. In 68 product presentations, there was some kind of infringement, so the objection rate was 68 percent. As a result of the previous legal tightening, the organization of product presentations has become difficult, but new tricks have also appeared. The National Consumer Protection Authority has received a number of indications that businesses are organizing and presenting goods to customers' homes. You can also remember that Parliament has already tightened up the law on product presentations once in 2014. According to this, if the product presentation does not take place at the company's premises, the customer may withdraw from the purchase without justification within 14 days of the receipt of the product. Some of the companies organizing product presentations tried to circumvent the requirement by informing the present interested parties only about the product and its characteristics during the display of the product, ordering the products presented is only possible via the Internet or telephone. A whole series of insatiable cases can be met by someone who's looking into the subject a little bit. I'd just like to mention a few of the most hairy ones. According to a report published in the press, a retired woman's phone rang during the presentation, and one of the ladies stepped in and took it away from her as a strict teacher. Another lady texted me, but she didn't get any better, she was ordered in a tough way, and they told her if she didn't finish the post, she'd have to get out of the room. You can't ask questions, and you don't have any comments, because then strict helpers will lead you out. There were also cases where participants were handed over a purchase coupon at the venue of the show, which could be cashed in the company's business in case of purchase of a product. In the latter case, there will be no special right for the customer, since he does not buy off-premises or online, but the companies typically do not draw the attention of the participants in the presentation. It is still common practice to announce commodity presentations as health screening, health day and free health check. However, the audit experience shows that the presentations announced as screening tests and the examinations carried out on them were carried out by persons without a medical degree. Several consumers reported cases where participants were placed in a particularly unpleasant and humiliating situation during the performances. In some cases, a separate room was not provided at the display site for the health screening and the study was thus kept in a men's room. Unfortunately, there was also a case in which participants tried to embarrass themselves, claiming that anyone who did not buy regrets the money for the health of their loved ones and family members. During these lectures, the performers repeatedly claimed that those who did not use the presented product would die. At a product show of this kind, the following statement was made:. The Christmas of last year was spent together. This year? I'm not sure. Or:. At Christmas last year, a child, a granddaughter ate the festive meal with you at a table. Are you going to do it again? I'm not sure. But if you have cancer tomorrow, I'll laugh in the face. What's he doing? She's crying. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, These methods exhaust the notion of aggressive commercial practice and psychic pressure, which is totally unacceptable. There seems to be no use in tightening it up, and even if it is not possible to ban such events, it is possible to significantly regulate them. Since my fellow Christian Democrat has already done so, I would not go into detail on the regulation itself, I would just like to highlight the most important elements of the bill before us. [[13.30]] It is an important provision that the proposal first names that activity in the Trade Act and makes it subject to the Consumer Protection Act. Secondly, it states that companies engaged in such activities are obliged to maintain customer service. The draft empowers the Consumer Protection Authority to monitor all of this. The proposal also provides for a ban on giving gifts and offering gifts, as this is why such product presentations are so popular. It will also be prohibited for companies organising a product presentation to convey consumer credit. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication, the proposal for the establishment of a customer service and for the monitoring of the Consumer Protection Authority leaves a preparation period of 45 days, and these provisions shall enter into force only as follows. Dear House, I would also like to emphasise that businesses who have carried out their activities fairly and in compliance with the legislation are not our enemies, and we thank those who have proved that this kind of trade can be done without abuse. However, because there have been a number of abuses, there is no reason for our continued patience. I hope that the Consumer Protection Authority will continue to monitor closely what has happened on product sales occasions linked to the presentation of goods, and, as has been the case, will continue to inform the government of any abuse. Dear House, If you do not want your parents or grandparents, or their constituents, to buy a magnetic therapy mattress for 400,000 forints, a polarized light therapy lamp set for 280,000 forints, a kitchen robotic machine for 600 thousand forints and a bed linen for 400,000 forints, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-92	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-10-22-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Direct sale of goods is one of the traditional forms of trade, the main element of which is that the buyer does not visit the trader in the shop, but the trader goes to the consumer's apartment, workplace or invites him to an event and tries to persuade him to conclude a transaction. With the promise of gifts, organizers make it more attractive to participate in product presentations, but these gifts and products are increasingly coming from basic foods and cleaners nowadays. If, at the initiative of the undertaking, the contract is concluded outside its premises, the undertaking shall be deemed to have concluded a contract outside the business. The norm makes a special mention of this case when the undertaking or third party is organised for this purpose in the event of a journey or event. A contract concluded outside the business shall be deemed to be a contract concluded between an undertaking or a person concluding a contract on behalf of or for the benefit of the undertaking and a consumer at the initiative of the undertaking outside the undertaking's premises or in the absence thereof. Sometimes the consumer cannot pay the purchase price of the product on his own merits and enters into a loan contract. In such a case, the exercise of the consumer's right of withdrawal also terminates the consumer loan contract. The consumer shall not be obliged to reimburse the damage to the undertaking resulting from the termination of the consumer loan contract and shall not be liable for interest or other costs. The same is the case if the consumer loan is granted by a third party rather than the undertaking, provided that the consumer loan contract is based on a prior agreement between the financial institution and the undertaking. The undertaking shall immediately notify the financial institution of the consumer's withdrawal. It is a common entrepreneurial attitude to deliver consumers to their business premises after a business demonstration in neutral place, as only there can they sign the contract. They can avoid it, avoid the regulation, and there is already an eight-day withdrawal. On occasion, the contract has not been signed by the consumer to waive his right of withdrawal or the consumer to refuse his right of withdrawal. The most common problem, perhaps, is that the company is bound by the payment of grief money, deposit or advance in the event of withdrawal under its contract, which would only be justified if the consumer did not take advantage of the possibility of withdrawal by law. In this form of sale there are no special rules for enforcement, the same warranty or warranty rights apply as if the purchase had been made in a store. Accordingly, if the product defect is a material defect or a fault of manufacturing origin, we can turn to the company with our quality objection and then, in the event of its failure, to a conciliation body or court. The course of the display has not changed significantly compared to that seen in previous years. well-educated, psychologically well-built presentations will continue to be held, which are an important element of involving participants with questions. Typically, the consumer who already knows the product, who may use it, shares his personal positive experience with the audience. Despite the fact that in these cases there may be suspicion that these consumers are truly built-in people, it is difficult for the Authority to prove this. Based on experience, in many cases consumers also make the work of the Authority difficult at the presentations, as they signal to the rapporteurs if supervisors are recognised on the spot. It is still common to conduct different lotteryes during the display of goods, mostly linked to the purchase of the main product at a more favourable price. In addition to the prompt decision-making of consumers and the sale of products that cannot be sold outside the store, it is falsely claimed that the product offered for purchase is suitable for the treatment of diseases or malfunctions of the organisation. In the latter case, the persons performing the lecture, taking advantage of the audience's receptiveness to the information about the treatment of diseases arising from the age of old, unduly attribute to the products presented with the aim of making these products appear indispensable to those present. In addition to the continuous presence of public authorities, the use of preventive tools is also essential in order to reduce the number of infringements at product presentations, thus providing consumers with adequate and wide information on possible hazards, risks and on the forums and opportunities available in the event of a dispute. There have been measures on this subject before. The subject was on the agenda several times before the previous Permanent Parliamentary Consumer Protection Committee. The civil society organisations involved in the work of the Committee have drawn up recommendations, which were as follows. The conceptual scope of non-business contracts and what constitutes a business space should be clarified. A detailed and precise definition of the rights and obligations of the consumer and the trader is necessary: the exercise of the right of withdrawal, the bearing of costs. It is also necessary to tighten the information obligations of traders. The competent authorities should be able to prohibit the holding of the event in advance. The relevant legislation should be amended by which undertakings have prior official notification obligations, similar to travel undertakings. Only an undertaking that complies with the provisions of the Government Decree on out-of-business contracts and the Consumer Protection Act may engage in contracts concluded out-of-business activities and, on request, is authorised to continue the activity by the Hungarian Trade Authorisation Office. It should be laid down by law what mandatory content supplies must be provided for the dispatchers to consumers that have been thrown into the mailboxes. [[13.40]] Raising the duration of the right of withdrawal for 14 days, putting the required blankte withdrawal declaration into law, the obligation of the undertaking to repay within 30 days in the event of withdrawal may already be transferred or implemented in the current Government Decree. In the case of loans, traders should be required to report this to the credit institution or the financial institution without delay. Risks should be highlighted in all possible ways in older people. For years, it has been clear that trips with product presentations are a potential source of danger, an opportunity for deception for one of the most vulnerable, vulnerable social groups, pensioners, people with health problems. The results of consumer signals, complaints, negative experience, the consumer protection authority's target controls clearly support these anomalies. In these circumstances, this issue has not been put on the agenda for an accident several times. As a result, 45/2014. tightening of the government decree, according to which the competent notary has to notify the date and location of the presentation 30 days in advance, and the preferential possibility that the deadline for the enforcement of the right of withdrawal without justification has been changed from 8 days to 14 days, has resulted in progress and a positive effect. Unfortunately, information on the basis of pre-notification obligations can only be communicated to the Consumer Protection Authority with the right of inspection by delay, so that a possible control option cannot be realised or it is difficult to prove subsequently that the 14-day right of withdrawal without justification has not been correctly communicated. Therefore, since there is a very difficult and cumbersome effect on those who have committed aggressive commercial practices which are in breach of the law, the application of the legal consequences and the best practice is due caution, caution, reasonable and life-like consumer awareness and prevention. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] Obviously, we do not want to clearly deter potential participants from all product presentations, but it should be pointed out that it is important to point out some of the typical criteria that might rightly arouse suspicion by emphasising caution. It is very important for them to know as much as possible, especially in the elderly, about the dangers these displays pose. T/5486 can be supported on our part. However, it does not hurt to highlight a few things. A problem raised by a civil society organisation was included in the justification for the proposal. The recommendation, proposal, made by both the profession and the parliamentary parties, is positive, I think it is positive for all of us, but it is regrettable that consumer protection has not been given a more prominent role either at government level or in Parliament's work, and consumer protection must be given an even more emphasis on this issue. And it should be pointed out that the consumers to be protected must be given greater attention, we are thinking of the elderly, the disabled, the children, because sooner or later these businesses will target not only the elderly, but also the disabled, which we are now experiencing, and also our children. So on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, we can support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-22-94	Thank you, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. The next keynote speaker was Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-10-22-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Since we are talking about a KDNP proposal, I would like not to mention its content, Mr Péter Harrach has done so, just allow me to add a few things. First of all, let me respond to the previous speech. We are very happy and we hope that Jobbik will have a similar conclusion, because it is an issue that clearly benefits all vulnerable people, so it would be good if they could support this bill, which is clearly a step forward. It is a subject which, if not lying on the street, is on the front pages, it is almost impossible to read the newspapers week after week that similar horror stories have been told by my fellow Member of history or by the Head of the Group, or which the Secretary of State has said in his speech, we would not find, either in the provision of newer and newer methods of deception, or in the provision of health services, or in the dressing of welders in white robes, in order to put pressure on those who appeared there. In fact, many here take advantage of the credulity, good faith, and naivety of old people, and try to profit themselves unfairly. So we're talking about a topic at lunch tables, dinner tables, which is a topic on buses, trams and newspapers. Perhaps that is precisely the job of legislation, when people - primarily pensioners here - are more vulnerable to the various companies that cheat them, when they are obviously at a disadvantage of information, but most emotionally vulnerable, in this case we can protect them by virtue of the power of the law. With regard to the right of withdrawal, it is very important that not only the law is guaranteed, which has been raised to 14 days by the government through its legislative work in recent years, but also that it can be used. The right of withdrawal itself means that a person who proves that he no longer has an interest in concluding the contract can create a situation such as before the conclusion of the contract with this unilateral declaration. In this case, precisely because we believe that the consumer is more vulnerable here, he is much more under pressure or in a psychic state that is not according to his normal conduct, so we guaranteed in a legislative amendment a few years ago that he would have the opportunity, without any special evidence, so he does not need to give reasons, he does not need to prove interest, but simply if he makes this statement, he can return the product and the money will come back; and anyone who organises such a product presentation must arrange it with this risk so that anyone can bring it back. Obviously, a lot of people have used the trick that the Secretary of State pointed out here in relation to the various statistics on consumer protection authorities, that they have not given them the opportunity to return it or have not given the line on which they could indicate the intention to withdraw; it is therefore important to amend this bill, which has been a guarantee for years that a right has been in place to enforce this right. Every bill can support the fair use of the business, but no bill can tolerate unfairly trying to make a profit far above normal levels, since here they sell 50 thousand forints for 800,000 forints or a few hundred forints for tens of thousands of forints. This is not fair, because by deception, fraud, the exploitation of gullibility, the exploitation of loneliness and solitude, these less informed, primarily elderly people agree to the conclusion of transactions they would not agree to in an informed way or in such a state of mind, or in which an ordinary consumer would not agree. Exactly what the congresswoman referred to, our Fundamental Law also states that there are groups that are better protected by the Hungarian legal system, such as the elderly, the disabled, such as children, and it is important that they not only have increased protection in criminal law, but also, for example, in the area of consumer rights, in the case of damage typically caused to them, it is easier to withdraw from this damaged situation, to obtain their money, and to cut off the future of these businesses, since, let us be aware of that, it is a billion-dollar business, one such company can make serious, billion-dollar sales, even within a single county in a year, by organizing a lot of such display of goods, and by saying that it will also discourage the pleasure of decent entrepreneurs, or reduce their opportunities. After all, others would sell products to these people with a normal margin, but they would take all their money and thus make extra profit in a completely unfair way, and specialize directly in older people and pensioners, and they would say that they are the best consumers, because their pensions are scheduled every month, that transfer can be made, that ban and execution can be made easier than in the case of other people of active age, whose incomes are not so clear and transparent and regular, because, let's say, they miss a period or not all their income comes from legal sources, and that is why it is more difficult to catch such debt collectors. [[13.50]] Well, it also leads to cleaning, it also cleans the market, it protects those who really organise such demonstrations with a direct intention and sincere mind, and they are not playing for the scam, and they have respected warranty rights, but it helps crowd out businesses that have been created for abuse. The legal greyness of this area, so to speak, shows that there is also a very high turnover of businesses. When the Consumer Protection Authority initiates proceedings against a company, it may no longer exist at the end of the procedure, or it turns out that a product presentation has been organised with the part-tasking of four or five companies, and one or more companies disappear while the procedure is being carried out, and thus the sanctions cannot be applied. The reason why the obligation to maintain customer service by the bill is important is because it can clean the entire product launch market. After all, obviously, companies that will be able to reach it in a year, two years from now or five years from now will be able to maintain customer service. That is why there are sanctions that the law has previously introduced, not only the right of withdrawal, but also the fact that the public authorities, the Consumer Protection Authority or the local notary - both of which have licenses for the product presentation - can reach the infringers, and when the redress procedures are completed, if any fines have to be imposed or other claims are made against these illegal product launchers, they can be found more easily over the years, as maintaining customer service will make this market more serious, fairer and more stable. Well, we hope that this will reduce the dishonest business, that the honour of the honest business will be strengthened, and we hope that the customs collectors of the loneliness, credulity, bona fideness and naivety of old people will disappear in Hungary from these various product presentations locations or from bus tour operators. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-10-22-97	Mr President, Dear House, This House is experiencing a kind of grace moment because I feel that we have a proposal that will be supported by all political forces and factions. We, Jobbiks, were a little desperate a year or two ago, when I was about to speak of a home career - from Jobbik's membership in Óbuda - several self-proclaimed campaigns began to prevent the creation of these product presentations by practically registering their participation in such events in order to inform the organizers of their obligations and of the laws that apply to them. They obviously resented that very much. Several of these occasions have been called off, called off in a similar way, sometimes in scandalous circumstances, but always in cooperation with the authorities. We have thus managed to protect the safety of many elderly people, whether in terms of financial security or peace of mind. At the time, we were afraid that the legislator or the government would not be a partner to settle this issue, because we had already put a well-developed professional proposal on the table - the elements of which we still hold, so we very much hope that we could include it in this otherwise good package - in which the better-looking, local right-wing representatives and activists would have wanted the local public, consumer protection and police to receive regular information about the presentations announced at the time, and that the notary would be able to carry out official checks in a separate department, as well as to be informed and warned of any such cases, by the local population, even in local newspapers. We, say, would like to see these pages in the Óbuda newspaper. It is no coincidence that even then, in cooperation with a Facebook group, so in cooperation with community forms, similar frauds were discovered at systemic level. I very much hope that legislation can now go through this problem in its entirety. The fact that they will have to maintain customer service for similar companies alone will provide a good filtering function, I feel. So, in fact, the company that can maintain and operate it is already putting itself on the company's plate and, in fact, we can say that it will become more controllable. At the same time, it must be seen that it is a huge industry. According to market estimates, some 150 companies deal with direct sales in Hungary, but only 11 of them are members of an alliance that has a strict code of ethics and may be more tangible. But it can also be seen that this market is estimated to be worth $50 billion, so there are companies operating in it, which we last met with similar ones only in the case of so-called consumer groups, where there was a lack of government behaviour and a series of actions, because they allowed the former to continue operating there, but did not give room for the creation of new ones. But it can be seen that now that customer service needs to be maintained, by eliminating one or two more security risks, this system can become operational, Hungarians can be protected at systemic level from miracle lamps and magnetic beds acting at cell level and other madness. But you can see that around the right of withdrawal and around the sites where these demonstrations are held, there must be order. Right of withdrawal is possible at the moment when the sales contract has been concluded outside the premises of the store. This is covered by the very short deadline for more than a few days. This is important because, in many cases, product presentations are organised as premises, in areas declared as branches for a short period of time, and where appropriate, the place of presentation is reported as a branch. We have a practical example that the presentation took place in a restaurant, and the office behind the restaurant was announced as an account, establishment, and, in the case of the contract concluded here, consumer rights, if not null, but much narrower than in a case where the same process is normally and traceable. It can be seen that as long as the registered establishment functions and the contract is concluded there, there are significantly more limited consumer opportunities that can be used afterwards. So here, too, there should be some sort of order in the jungle so that there is no place to play with sites, there should be a very well-managed circle of where such a demonstration can be held. I would also not mind it if not only financial services could not be provided, but for certain product types it would be strictly prohibited. After all, any campaign around health-preservation products may, where appropriate, damage the willingness of the age group to go to a real doctor or to participate in screening tests, the consequences of which may be incredibly extensive in the national economy. Therefore, in such cases, I propose to the author a further restriction, particularly in relation to the range of products related to, or related to, health. But what we need to see is that these restrictions in themselves are pointing in the right direction. And to expose the abuse of so-called display of goods is a multi-annual omission that must finally be carried through. I very much hope that - although I do not see an LMP lead speaker - all parties and factions will probably be able to support what lies before us, but I also hope that at this moment of grace, Fidesz-KDNP will have the insight to let these improving amendments go through its system. Feel free to submit these under your own name, just make it happen. So it is simply necessary to stop playing with sites, and also to play with health-related products, because here, if I say once again in relation to the dissemination of similar goods, the willingness of the population to participate in screening tests or even the habits of going to the doctor are changed due to various campaign-like display of goods, it can have very serious consequences. Overall, I am very pleased that we no longer have to prevent such madness by right-wing activists from Óbuda, but we can finally find a solution within the walls of Parliament so that all elderly people in Hungary can feel safe from similar hyenas. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-22-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I don't see anyone in this room from the LMP Group. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see your next name on the screen. I'm just gonna ask if anyone wants to speak. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, This means that there will be no two-minute speeches and no further speeches by Members. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I now give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara, who... [[For signal:]] No, I have to give it to the author. I'm sorry. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-10-22-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to respond more particularly, I just want to thank everyone in the debate for their speech, and I would like to thank you for giving back the voter's confidence in Hungarian parliamentarianism and legislation when they agree on a matter of interest to them and important to them as well as government, party groups, opposition groups. [[14.00]] Thank you all very much for your support. I trust that soon this bill will be passed by law, and that from next year onwards, older people will be safer. Thank you all very much for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-100	Dear Parliament, The proposals for amendments will be submitted by 16:00 today. Now, Honourable Parliament, it is up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/6627. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-22-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's primary objective is to strengthen public confidence in winding-up organisations, improve the transparency of the sale of assets, increase the professional level of winding-up activities, and, therefore, strengthen the professional requirements of winding-up organisations, control of insolvency proceedings, renew the list of liquidators, increase the data content of the official records of winding-up bodies, and keep regular professional reporting of winding-up bodies. An important step is the recent launch of an electronic sales system for winding-up proceedings. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The bill just submitted by the Government is XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. It contains amendments to the Act concerning the appointment of insolvency administrators, compulsory professional training, the management of the list of insolvency administrators and the sale of liquidation assets. The bill amends the provision of the bankruptcy law which regulates the grounds for exclusion in relation to the appointment of the winding-up commissioner. In accordance with the provisions in force, the winding-up commissioner may be designated in the proceedings as soon as he is notified to the body leading the list of liquidators, and the appointment is therefore not conditional on the effective registration of the winding-up commissioner in the register. The bill alters this provision and makes it clear that the winding-up commissioner can only be appointed after registration. As regards the protection of creditors, it is of particular importance that an organisation may appoint only a person who complies with the legal requirements necessary for winding-up operations, in particular with regard to the legal provisions on non-criminal and vocational training. The authority which manages the list of liquidators shall closely monitor these legal conditions during the registration procedure. With this amendment, we can avoid the appointment of a liquidator who has not been registered. The bill also takes into account the uniform treatment of winding-up bodies and the consistency of the legal consequences of offenders who are in breach of the law, which have been included in the new list of insolvency administrators and have not been included in the register, but are still entitled to act in their ongoing cases, and therefore the proposal standardises the rules which require the winding-up body to be released in their ongoing cases in the event of removal from the register. In the case of winding-up bodies which have been included in the new insolvency register, the list of liquidators shall be 114/2006. As of 15 March 2014, the Government Decree of 2014 provides that the winding-up body will be removed from the register if it has been definitively exempted from winding-up activities in at least two cases or in at least three cases within a period of two years due to an infringement or omission by the court in that case. If it has been removed from the register, any court in any pending case shall, of its own motion, exempt the winding-up body from its activities. The bill creates consistency between the bankruptcy law and the government decree and eliminates the current unjustified distinction between the entities included in the new list of liquidators and those which have not been included there. Dear House, According to the decree of the Government on the list of liquidators, as of 5 September 2014, the list of liquidators will be kept by the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets. For reasons of guarantee, the bill also states in the bankruptcy law that the list of liquidators is kept by the Ministry of State Property Supervision, currently the independent department of the Ministry of National Development, as an authority which cannot be ordered in respect of independent and official matters. It also states that there is no appeal against official decisions relating to the keeping of the register. The latter provision does not imply any change to the current rules, as the procedures of the registration authority are still of the same order, the decisions taken by the Minister cannot be challenged by appeal under the rules of the administrative authority procedure, and only judicial review is possible. Therefore, the new legislation does not constitute a restriction on the right of appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, The sale of assets by public tender or auction due in winding-up proceedings from 1 January 2015 shall take place on the surface of an electronic distribution system operated by the State and accessible to anyone on the Internet. The bill aims to increase the transparency and flexibility of the sale of assets, ensuring that the bidders and those with pre-emptive rights have the right to know the liquidation report on the result of the sale. At present, only the creditor's selection, the creditor's representative, the creditor's and the auction buyer will be able to view the minutes. In order to allow bidders and pre-purchasers to make effective use of the remedies provided for in the bankruptcy law, it is necessary for them to have access to the minutes. However, the protection of the personal data of the bidders is of course key, so the bill provides that the personal data of the bidders cannot be recognised in the published minutes, and the bidders must be included in the electronic sales system with the unique identifier allocated automatically. In order to increase the professional level of the winding-up commissioner's activity, the bankruptcy law sets out the compulsory professional training of the winding-up commissioners, which must be completed every two years. According to the transitional provisions of the bankruptcy law, the continuing training obligation must be fulfilled for the first time by 31 December 2015 and must be certified by 31 January 2016. Taking into account the comments received from the winding-up bodies, the bill extends the first period of further training until 30 June 2016 in a very fair manner to the staff concerned, thus giving all those concerned sufficient time to continue their profession. [[14.10]] However, it is necessary to lay down detailed rules on the organisation and conduct of professional training, and therefore the bill empowers the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets to regulate them by regulation. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill contains well-established amendments and additions justified by the case-law, which facilitate the enforcement of previously stated government objectives, increase the professional level of winding-up activities and make liquidation sales more transparent. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill and then to support it. Thank you for giving me the honor of your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. We will continue our work with speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act T/6627 on the amendment of Law T/6627 - in short: bankruptcy law We are now in the process of amending bill No.1, the primary objective of which, as Mr János Fónagy said in his national expo, is to strengthen public confidence in winding-up organisations, to make the sale of assets more transparent and to increase the professional level of winding-up activity. To this end, the bill now submitted by the Government covers the following amendments: the appointment of liquidation commissioners, their compulsory professional training, their inclusion in the list of insolvency administrators and the maintenance of the list of insolvency administrators, and the increased transparency of the sale of liquidation assets. Pursuant to the provisions currently in force, in winding-up proceedings, the winding-up body appointed by the court shall not designate a person who has not been notified to the winding-up supervisor of the winding-up register. For the time being, therefore, the fact of the notification is sufficient for the designation, and waiting for registration in the register is not necessary for the designation. As a result, there may be cases in which winding-up officers who are not later registered in the official register carry out procedural acts. This fact, circumstance, concerns the protection of both procedural and creditor interests. In order to avoid this, the proposal amends the rules on the exclusion of winding-up commissioners in such a way that only persons who have already been registered by the body in charge of the roll-list can be appointed to the winding-up commissioner. The bill clarifies the rules on the removal and removal of winding-up bodies from the register, which are not included in the list of insolvency administrators, but are still authorised to deal with their ongoing cases. This is justified by the fact that there are winding-up bodies that were included in the previously existing list of liquidators, but have not been registered in the new list of liquidators in force from 15 February 2014 because of the list of 130 persons. The outstanding winding-up bodies still dealt with pending cases, so it was justified to clarify the rules applicable to them, as the bankruptcy law is currently not uniform in the case of the new winding-up roll-out and the loss of liquidation entities. The proposal also includes changes in relation to the body leading up the list of liquidators. Article 114/2006 The text of the Government Decree in force on 5 September 2014 designated the Minister for National Development as the head of the list of insolvency administrators; previously, the functions of keeping the register were carried out by the Administration and Justice Office. On the basis of the bill, this activity will be carried out in the future instead of the Minister by the independent department of the Ministry, which is not to be ordered in respect of these official matters. The purpose of the organisational amendment is to make the operation and organisation of the Ministry more effective in managing the list of insolvency administrators. The submission also states in particular that there is no appeal against the decision of the body which manages the register - but this does not mean a change from the previous rules. I would also like to refer to Dr. János Fónagy's presentation, which I do not wish to repeat. Obviously, the possibility of judicial redress against the decisions of the authority will continue to exist, and this is included in the amendment of the law. Thus, declaring the exclusion of an appeal does not mean that the right to appeal is terminated. Other elements of the legislative amendment should be highlighted in the effort to increase transparency in the sale of liquidation assets. The provisions of the bankruptcy law currently in force do not contain any information as to whether the bidders involved in the sale procedure or those having the right to pre-empt the assets for sale may consult the minutes drawn up by the liquidator. There is obviously a reasonable interest in obtaining information from the bidders involved in the sale procedure and the pre-purchase holders on the basis, for example, of the criteria on which the liquidator excluded the bidders and how he chose the successful tenderer. Knowledge is of the utmost importance because it is only with this knowledge that those concerned can make an informed decision on the remedies provided for by the bankruptcy law. In practice, precisely because of the lack of this information, an objection to the sale of property or an attack on sales contracts is so often made. The proposal addresses this problem by sending the result of the electronic auction and the report on the evaluation of the electronic tender to both the bidder and the person entitled to pre-purchase on request, with the condition that the personal data of the bidders should be made anonymous and the unique identification number given by the electronic sales system. Finally, I do not want to go into detail on the amendments concerning the professional training of insolvency Commissioners, the Secretary of State said the new rules on this matter. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. The deadline needs to be amended in order to provide sufficient time to enable the winding-up commissioners to comply with the obligation to continue their training, or not to have the case where the exercise of their profession is forced to be interrupted because they are unable to fulfil the obligation to continue their training due to possible obstacles. This also includes the detailed regulation of professional training and the sanctions for further training, i.e. the consequences of its failure to comply with the sanctions, the failure to perform further training, the loss of the right to carry out the winding-up commissioner's activities, and I therefore believe that the additional time limit for doing this will allow the liquidation commissioners to exercise their profession in a smooth manner. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Referring to what is stated in the introduction and repeating the words of the Secretary of State, I would like to ask for the discussion and support of the legislative amendment proposal to improve the professional level of winding-up activity. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-22-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is coming. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I will start by saying that, in order to list what you have stolen from agricultural land through trades to private pension savings over the last five to six years, unfortunately, it would not be enough to have a speaking time. Therefore, when discussing the bill - saving the House from a long and monotonous list - I would like to focus very briefly on their current corruption efforts. In 2014, you placed Miklós Seszták under his supervision and simultaneously took the liquidation market. It is clear that completely compliant insolvency administrators have not been legally registered, but according to the press, there have been many others who have been hired in the absence of the conditions, obviously who have been good cadres for you. [[14.20]] We can only see this extremely poor professional quality bill as another stage in the overcoming of the liquidation market, which we will obviously not support. I sincerely hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this process will also have criminal consequences. There is, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, which is no longer worthy of puffing, and this proposal deserves no more words than that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-22-106	Thank you very much. Mr Lajos Kepli is the next speaker, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not gonna take too long to comment on this bill. What conditions, conditions prevail in Hungary today in the liquidation market is very visible from everyday cases and cases. There is no doubt that this really needs to be reformed, but that this law can achieve this goal, but it is very doubtful for us, because, as has already been said in the speech before me, we are witnessing another state supervision. With regard to winding-up proceedings, the government and the Ministry of National Development can thus exercise such influence on the appointment of the liquidator, whether or not to the process itself, which clearly means that no one can come to mind or count any liquidation commissioner who would have previously complied with these requirements. It is also a rather interesting thing that the regulation provides for the extension of the deadline for continuing professional training by a person with skills in liquidation and supervision, and at the same time only now, in this amendment, provides for detailed rules for the organisation and conduct of professional training. Let us not forget that there has already been a deadline that would have expired now, and that is what this legislative amendment proposal is intended to extend, while at the same time wanting to provide for detailed rules, as an interesting legal solution. Overall, with regard to other regulations, although it contains detailed rules that, when a superficial observer looks at, he may say that they lead to a tightening of the winding-up rules, or, as has been said here, to the transparency of the sale of property, the devil is always in the details. I am quite certain that liquidation proceedings and bankruptcy proceedings in Hungary will not be more effective from this bill. To shed some light on this issue from my own point of view, it is quite problematic how long the winding-up proceedings in Hungary are today, in what time frame they take place: the procedures that have lasted for several years. To add a little to my field of expertise, this has, among other things, environmental concerns, as we have seen in a number of recent cases, such as Scented Road in the case of Budapest Chemicals, where, during a period of several years of prolonged eradication, an environmental hazard has arisen, which has been reported daily by the media, and this has even increased from a point of view that the supply of goods that could be treated as dangerous chemicals at the start of the winding-up process has become hazardous waste as a result of the various chemical processes and others over the years, thus polluting the environment and polluting it until today. These are also aspects of the length of the winding-up procedure for a long time, and this is not the only example. In a number of cases, and even in most cases, similar environmental damage occurs at the premises of firms in liquidation or which have already been liquidated, where unfortunately no one is paying enough attention to these aspects. In conclusion, aside from highlighting the individual aspect, we consider that the draft legislation itself is no longer capable of improving the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings to a degree that would substantially improve this existing situation, which can also be called chaotic in Hungary. A whole new regulation should, however, take a different direction, not the usual direction in recent years, that the government is trying to subdue everything and decide everything in its own power, for example, who is fit to be the insolvency commissioner and who is not. I understand that this could, on the one hand, prevent a lot of abuse - and this can be said of a lot of measures that this government has initiated - if there is such an attitude. If we use the option or measure given by law positively, it is suitable to filter out those who are not fit for it. Unfortunately, in this government, however, we have also seen a number of cases of abuse, the possibility of filtering out the various - not only this law, but also this - entrepreneurs, the various individuals who can control these processes, or who are appointed to a company as insolvency commissioner. For these reasons, we cannot support this bill with a calm conscience. I ask the representative of the Government to submit to the House, on the basis of consideration of the opposition's comments here, a law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings which meets these criteria. Unfortunately, until then, we cannot support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-22-108	Thank you very much. We're done with the keynote speakership. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react. Mr. Secretary Major has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first respond to the suggestions made by my fellow Member, Barándy. I do not dispute that his contribution was inspired by his sincere political and professional conviction, but allow me, for a moment, to fall out of the role of the remorseless Parliamentary Secretary of State, and also to express my subjective views on the liquidation board and bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't been part of these procedures in the last decades, and not on this side, but on the other end of the stick. In recent decades, I have experienced that liquidation, of course in the circle where we are debating it, is a legislative issue, a regulatory issue, a state engagement, its religion or denial, but behind it - I ask my fellow Members to see this - in the past and often today there were thousands and tens of thousands of people and families. So it doesn't matter how a liquidator does his job, and all due respect to those who did it and do it as required by professional integrity and general moral rules. At the same time, on the other hand, the legislative and governmental responsibility to encourage the purity of these procedures and the implementation of them in accordance with the legislative intention must be seen. Therefore - once again, not arguing political and professional convictions - I should be allowed to reject the remarks made by the Member on who has stolen what here. The list of liquidations was established after a six-month tender procedure, when Dr. Miklós Seszták was not yet a minister. The fact that he became a minister after that is another question, there is no causal link between the two. I understand that there is a political mistrust, but to assume that a former Member of Parliament would have thought that after a few months he would be in a position that was neither justified nor justified. [[14.30]] However, I would like to reiterate that the list of liquidators is now under the responsibility of the Minister for the Supervision of State Property, as of 5 September 2014, and the current amendment specifically aims to ensure that the procedures in this regard are consistent. Undoubtedly, it is also in the interest of the Ministry to ensure that the organisational framework for operations is more uniform and effective. At the same time, the adoption of such a function of the former Administrative and Judicial Office, mentioned by you, does not affect either the substance of the proceedings or the substance of the remedies. So I do not see any conscious political or power in this, and I do not believe that this proposal gives rise to such a assumption. On the comments made by my fellow Member Kepli, I thank you for your comment on the fact that you agreed that this whole scope of regulation has been subject to review and requires a more consistent and transparent system than before and at present. You have accepted this possibility in this amendment. It may not be the first time I have said this before this House, but it is always true for legislation and the application of law that a knife can be used to cut bread and kill a man - it is not the knife's fault, not even the hand that holds the knife, but the brain that controls it. This is true of everything, for any legislation negotiated by the House, it can be said that if it is used in the way that the Hungarian Parliament accepts it after the presentation and the hearing, then I hope that it will go its way. I would ask my fellow Member to suggest both the proposer and the current government and the parliamentary majority that we do not want to develop practices contrary to the interests of society, the aims and functioning of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy, with these proposals. On this basis, I would ask that, if you have any substantive amendments to the proposal, they should be submitted, discussed in the usual order, and, if they have been evaluated, I would continue to ask that, in view of the content of the proposal and its objective which you do not dispute, the proposal should be supported in the final vote. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2015-10-22-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain transport-related laws until closure. Government referral T/6629. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2015-10-22-111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The main objective of the bill is to report, analyse and monitor civil aviation incidents. Ensure compliance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Union Regulation and the Commission Implementing Regulation should be applied by Member States from 15 November 2015 and national legislation should therefore also enter into force by that date. The bill contains four amendments. The amendment to the Aviation Act is justified by harmonisation with that EU regulation. The regulation is designed to apply the same rules to aircraft falling within EU and national regulatory powers. It is also a Union requirement that appropriate penalties should be applied in case of non-payment of airspace charges. In accordance with these provisions, the possibility of refusing air traffic services in the event of debts over 60 days is provided for. HungaroControl Zrt. will no longer provide services to aircraft that have not previously paid the airspace charge, so they cannot fly through the Hungarian airspace. The amendment includes, among other things, the obligation to reimburse the costs of unnecessary air defense alarms for the Hungarian Defence Agency in the event of a violation of the aviation rules by the aviation authority. The amendment to the law on the professional investigation of air, rail and water accidents and other traffic incidents is justified by the EU regulation on the reporting and analysis of air accidents, incidents. The European Union has a clear intention to put in place legislation to proactively prevent aviation accidents. Therefore, air transport organisations, airlines, airports, manufacturing companies must report all events to their national authorities. Even those that don't cause accidents, they're just different from normal operations. National authorities shall investigate and analyse these events. The EU Regulation will extend the scope of the events to be reported, so it is expected that this will also result in an increase in the number of incident reports. The amendment to the Act on the Management and Protection of Personal Data on Health and related to Health is justified by the processing of the safety body in connection with the professional investigation of air, rail and water accidents and other traffic incidents. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason for amending the law on the publication and domestic application of the Code annexed to the European Agreement on the international inland waterway transport of dangerous goods is that the rules of this Agreement, when transporting dangerous goods carried on the Danube for fireworks on 20 August, are not practically complied with. However, instead, the traffic lock-off ordered by the shipping authority, the escorts of the police and the disaster management authority and other safety regulations provide sufficient security during transport and operation. Dear Parliament, I would ask you to discuss and accept this basic legislative proposal for harmonisation. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-22-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Gábor Purge, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-22-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The primary objective of the bill is to report, analyse and monitor civil aviation incidents. Ensure compliance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Regulation and the Commission Implementing Regulation should apply to Member States from 15 November 2015 and national legislation should therefore enter into force until then. On this basis, the bill calls for the amendment of four laws. The first is the 1995 XCVII on air transport. amendment of the law. In addition to the amendments for harmonisation purposes, this proposal includes non-harmonisation amendments, which include, inter alia, the establishment of a ministerial regulation to prepare legislation on unmanned aircraft. [[14.40]] The name of Hungary's public aircraft register is changed to Hungary's aircraft register, as the name is misleading as it is registered in civil and non-state aircraft. According to the applicable aviation law, all civil aircraft must be subject to an AOC. On the basis of the reduction of bureaucracy and rationality, only registered aircraft would need such licences in the future and only if they carry out an economic aviation activity. The 2005 CLXXXIV on the peer review of air, rail and water accidents and other traffic incidents is also amended. Law. In this, the European Union has a clear intention to put in place legislation to prevent air traffic accidents in a proactive manner. This means that air transport organisations, airlines, airports, manufacturing companies should report all events to their national authorities, including those that do not cause accidents, but differ from normal operations and investigate and analyse these events. The purpose of the analysis is to identify sources of danger and to take the necessary measures. The 1997 XLVII on the management and protection of health and related personal data is also modified. Law. The amendment is justified by the processing of data relating to the professional investigation of traffic safety bodies, air, rail and water transport accidents and other traffic incidents. Under EU legislation, the safety body is authorised to access these data, but at the same time the controller was not authorised to release such data. For reasons of first instance, it is appropriate to authorise health institutions and doctors to release the data on the basis of a request from the safety body. In addition, it will also be amended, which Mr Secretary of State spoke about, the publication of the Rules of the European Agreement on International Inland Transport of Dangerous Goods and the 2015 LXXXIV on Domestic Application. Law. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that dangerous goods carried on the Danube for the Budapest fireworks on 20 August, such as fireworks, when transporting dangerous goods to the launch site, the requirements of the ADN Code cannot be effectively complied with. However, instead, the traffic lock-off ordered by the shipping authority, the escort ships and other safety regulations of the police and the disaster management authority provide sufficient security during transport and operation. The law contains the necessary requirements on the basis of the option provided by the EU directive. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill.
u2015-10-22-114	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter is the next speaker, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-10-22-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. As the Secretary of State has already listed in detail, I would not do what legislation is being amended by the proposal on transport before us. However, I would like to highlight a few specific points on these matters. In particular, the amendments to the Aviation Act show that the concept of State aviation, controlled airport, airport is clarified and that the concept of unmanned aircraft, unmanned aircraft system, model aircraft, military area, aircraft equipment and glider equipment is introduced as a new concept. This, I think, is very commendable that these concepts will be clarified. I would like to highlight two of these. The first is public aviation. Here, in Article 21, this concept is defined, and here is a detailed list of the items listed for defence, customs, police, border control and the rest. Here, we would certainly have an amending proposal to include disaster management, as disaster management currently does not have aircraft, but it is a question of whether this will happen in the future. So, as I see the reaction of the Secretary of State, we will discuss this further in the future. On the issue of unmanned aircraft, I think that the government is starting to deal with this issue in substance... - because it is a matter of fact that for years there have been certain statements on this issue, on the issue of unmanned aircraft, and I have repeatedly written to the Minister of Defence and at various events dealing with it, I have indicated that it is very important for the Hungarian government to take action on drones as well. After all, the regulation of these instruments is incredibly important, and we see that there is an ongoing international effort to provide the appropriate legal framework for the proper use of these instruments, and obviously the possible risks that they entail, we can detect - of course it is in everyone's interest - those risks. Now, obviously, this has an international framework, but it is also a fact that it has Member State competence, and I am therefore very pleased that the government is beginning to address this issue. The question is, the kind of strategy, the kind of complex approach that deals with the legislation on drones, when it is expected, in what form it is expected, because it is necessary to set legislative frameworks. In this proposal, we also find references to the mandate of ministers to make certain regulations and advances in the form of regulations, but we do not see the implementing regulations at all, but we do see that there is a very early entry into force of this bill, at least what is now before us. There is, therefore, a demand for it on our part in any way, and I think that this is absolutely common, that it is in everyone's interest, that the security of citizens should be seen as soon as possible, and that domestic legislation that is moving forward, of course, in accordance with international rules, should also take place as soon as possible. I would also stress with regard to the aviation law that data relating to the operation of unmanned aircraft are managed by the National Transport Authority's Aviation Office, but this is also regulated by the Act and it becomes clear that the Military Aviation Authority, the commander of the aircraft, the representative of the organisation responsible for logistical support for the Hungarian Defence Agency in the case of aviation personnel and defence concerns is entitled to verify the dangerous goods on board the State aircraft before transport. So far, the legislation has not specifically provided for the control of the transport of dangerous substances by public aircraft. It becomes clear that the request for a foreign State aircraft to fly into the Hungarian airspace should be submitted with specific exceptions to the Minister responsible for foreign policy and the diplomatic authorisation procedure for team movements will be recorded, given the fact that, in the absence of precise regulation in recent years, the diplomatic authorisation procedure for team movements has repeatedly been a problem. The proposal contains a reference to team movements. In this connection, I would like to point out that this paragraph in the law, which discusses this topic, I would also like to read:. In the case of team movements under Article 47 of the Fundamental Law, the exemption from the diplomatic application does not exempt from the public licence for team movement. States with diplomatic immunity shall apply for authorisation in such a case in good time. Here I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the preparation in the right time, and the question arises that it would be appropriate to define this further, because at the right time, this is a question of what it could mean. Returning to the full proposal, it will be possible to refuse air navigation services if the debtor has a debt of more than 60 days. I believe you mentioned that, Mr. Secretary. [[14.50]] It will be possible to reimburse the Hungarian Defence Office's costs if there is a chargeable human behaviour and not, for example, a technical failure to justify the alert of the Air Defense Emergency Service. In view of the fact that, in these cases, the pilot-in-command of the aircraft infringes a statutory flight rule, which is currently being examined by the aviation authority, the aviation authority will also be entitled to establish that the alert is unnecessary. In addition, an AOC is required for aircraft carrying out an economic aviation activity. The operation of the State aircraft and the unmanned State aircraft does not require an AOC. Here, with regard to the AOC, I would like to ask if the Secretary of State will be able to answer this question, that, for example, this AOC is currently linked to, for example, the rights of operators subject to excise duty reclaims, and the way in which the aircraft can be used was also subject to this authorisation, for example, the terms of insurance of the aircraft in question, and this has a significant impact on, for example, the fees to be paid. While, in the case of domestic flights, the termination of the AOC may not be a problem, the question is whether or not there may be future problems in the case of extra-national flights. In the absence of a waiver, there may also be cost increases associated with insurance risk bearing, so I would like to put this to the Secretary of State as a question of whether there is thought in this. In addition, it is clarified in the same amendment that the Minister of Defence not only considers training in the field of professional knowledge for the provision of the military air traffic control and air security management services, but also training in the professional knowledge required for the provision of the military flight management service, and this latter category is a summary name, including military air traffic controller, air mission control, combat flight control and gunfield flight management services. The operation of these services is an obligation arising from NATO's accession to an integrated air defence system and other international engagements of defence. The Minister for Defence shall ensure that the military flight management service operates at the same level as the safety guarantee required for civil air navigation services and in accordance with operational expectations, including training. And in relation to the training, there is a change in the law, which is very impressive to me, in which the name of the institution is practically replaced by the name of an organization. Therefore, the organisations designated by the Minister for Defence can carry out this training. The question arises: I do ask this question delicately, but on what basis it will appoint these organisations, and this, let us say, will provide an opportunity for outsourcing, even for a disguised privatisation. So if we could get some justification for why this change is necessary, then it would also be very good. Furthermore, the law provides that Hungary's aviation field and obstacle database must be established and maintained regularly by updating its data content; I also think that this is very positive. I would like to convert in a few sentences to amendments to the law on the professional investigation of air, rail, water transport accidents and other transport incidents. Here the provision for the notification of other transport events is added to the scope of the Act. The air safety organisation shall monitor the notifications made by the organisations in cooperation with the aviation authority, and the aviation authority shall carry out an analysis of each notification sent directly to the safety organisation in cooperation with the organisation. Currently, 500 notifications per year should be analysed and monitored on the basis of an EU regulation. However, given the change in the scope of the notification under this Regulation, according to the national estimates, the number of notifications is expected to increase by 50%. The rules of cooperation between the road safety body, the authorities and the determining bodies in the course of infringement and prosecution of administrative procedures in connection with the professional investigation of traffic accidents and other traffic incidents are also clarified in the Act. The proposal also contains provisions on victims' rights. In the event of a railway, water transport accident or incident, it shall authorise the safety body to communicate information to the victims, their relatives or their representatives, and shall disclose the information relating to the facts identified during the incident investigation and the procedure followed during the incident investigation, taking into account the rules on the protection of personal data. As I said, the entry into force is on 15 November and the provisions on air traffic control fees will enter into force on the 31st day following the publication. I would like to highlight two more important pillars. One is the substantial increase in the supervisory fees of the aviation authority. Several points point to this, such as the introduction of the provision at a specific date, and it is quite clear that it is detrimental to the undertakings and persons concerned. On our part, it is in no way eligible to increase these charges, as they are absolutely thrown away from inflation expectations and from the load-bearing capacity of domestic representatives of the industry. So the fee increase itself is not eligible. We see that there are still a lot of, we can say, a lot of aircraft already looking for homes in other Member States of the European Union, because there is such an opportunity for free movement within the EU. I would add that this is also the case today because we see that we are talking about high charges, and we are not looking at the solution in raising these charges, but rather in reducing the items increasing the general costs of the authority, cutting them down, making the operation more economical, and thus making it more efficient rather than increasing these charges. Another important issue for us, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, would be the fireworks of 20 August, so that the shipping authority allows a derogation from the ADN Code when transporting certain dangerous goods. This would not only be applicable to fireworks on the 20th, but also in all other cases. We are not in favour of Bianko being authorised to do so. So, in several points mentioned, which I have tried to concentrate in the 15-minute speech, we will, of course, submit amendments to this law. If this remains so, in this form, we do not consider it eligible, but, of course, we will return to this in a detailed debate in a Commission debate on the amendments, and we very much hope that while there really are provisions in the proposal that go beyond harmonisation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, there is the intention that further improvements will be accepted by the government. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-22-116	Thank you very much. Mr Ander Balázs is the next speaker, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-10-22-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As can be seen from the general justification of the bill amending certain transport-related laws, the entry into force of several EU legislation makes it necessary to amend the legislation for harmonisation. By the way, I have no intention of repeating the introduction of Secretary of State, giving some kind of better paraphrase here, so I am trying to keep to the point. [[15.00]] The first part of the proposal before us is the 1995 XCVII on aviation. Amendment to the Act, Article 1 of this bill. §2 introduces the term unmanned aircraft, in fact it is drone regulation; for the time being, the obligation to notify ownership data, but this will obviously continue to tighten up later on, because if we look at changes in the world, it must be recognised that this will be inevitable sooner or later. Diging into the world of drones here, preparing to negotiate the amendment of the law, it can be said that these structures are conquering both in the world and in Hungary. We've got hundreds of them flying through the air. However, legislation does not yet keep up with its use, but uniform regulation at EU level will also be in place by 2018. You have to see that there is a huge demand for drones around the world. Today, according to current estimates, 100,000 such tools are now available in the world every month. The popularity of these is growing unbroken among private people and businesses, so it will be justified to regulate this. Over the next ten years, the size of the military and civilian drone markets is estimated to reach up to EUR 70-80 billion, and by 2035 the use of technology could become part of everyday life. Facebook wants to use drones to get the Internet to less developed parts of the world, Google or large parcel companies like Amazon and Alibaba are experimenting with drones in home delivery. It is good to know that, if not to this extent, these instruments are spreading in Hungary as well. Until the summer of this year, I understand that about a hundred licenses for commercial use have been issued by the Air Administration of the National Transport Authority. What is still to be discussed here is the point concerning the use of Hungarian airspace, which, by the way, has already been discussed in detail here, and has asked questions about this, which I would not like to repeat. The proposal is set out in Article 5 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Paragraph 2 states that, if there is a liability for human behaviour and not, for example, a technical failure to justify the alert of the anti-aircraft response service, it is appropriate to reimburse the Hungarian Defence Office for the costs of causing the unnecessary alarm. According to Jobbik, this is entirely justified, since it is also a violation of emergency numbers, of 105 uses other than 112 purposes, where the infringer is obliged to reimburse the costs of the unnecessary movement of the body and the measures taken. In the further paragraphs, the amendment sets out requirements for the registration of other flight equipment, such as hang gliders and their companions, which are managed by staff. Once again, there are reasons for road safety, which, of course, benefit Jobbik. However, State-owned aircraft and drones are excluded from the AOC because they are registered or registered, which is essentially administrative simplification, which should also be promoted. Article 9 According to Section 5 of the Act, the rules on properties have been tightened up, and this is now added to the establishment of forests and agricultural activities. This is obviously good from a safety point of view, but it can be an additional burden from a citizen's point of view, since not only the construction but also the planting of forests and agricultural activities will be subject to authorisation, and not only military aviation, but also the approval of the military authority will be required in these specific cases. It is further tightened so that not only the government can provide for this regulation, but, for example, it can also be regulated by a municipal decree. The additional safety requirement is justified by low-flying civilian flight crews and drones, as is the case with the establishment of a safety space database. We can support that. Articles 11 and 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. § contains highly justified health and criminal conflicts of interest, which the Jobbik can identify with. Article 13 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. § of HungaroControl Zrt. supplementing its tasks by performing flight meteorological tasks and designing instrument flight procedures. I have to ask and ask the Secretary of State what kind of potentate might have an interest in this company, because even the Public Finance Act has been amended because of it. The paragraph that limited HungaroControl Zrt. was repealed. the possibility of acquiring ownership in a company. This will give you the opportunity to complete your tasks mentioned above. Although the design of the flight meteorological and instrument flight procedures in the Budapest district is not an objectionable extension of tasks, it empowers the government to designate the service provider or service provider, which means a monopoly. At the same time, we must assume that it is justified to ensure this monopoly on the grounds of public service. On the other hand, as regards the establishment of a company to achieve long-term business interests, the acquisition of ownership, it is very mysterious to me. So I respectfully ask the author what they were thinking here. If the company's tasks relate to the supervision, distribution, traffic management, aircraft detection, safety, information, timetable consultations, therefore quasi-public service activities, what are the long-term business interests that would require the acquisition of ownership in companies and the establishment of such activities? However, in order to navigate to a more relaxed airspace, the subsequent stages are a technical amendment to the EU harmonisation amendment or conceptual definitions, which is, of course, eligible. Article 17 is replaced by the following: The provisions of Section 5 are entirely justified, since it is expected that, following the recent plane tragedy in France, even more attention will be paid to the health situation of flight or flight crew. The tragedy of Germanwings' scheduled flight between Barcelona and Düsseldorf in 9525 was memorable when the Airbus A320 aircraft crashed in the Western Alps on 24 March 2015. There were 144 passengers and 6 staff on the plane. Responsible for the terrible tragedy, 27-year-old First Officer Andreas Lubitz has served at the low-cost office since September 2013 and had 630 flight hours. On 27 March, the German prosecutor's office announced that a search at Lubitz's apartment had found a shredded document stating that Lubitz was under medical treatment and could not have worked that day because of his illness, but that no suicide note was found. According to the authorities, Andreas Lubitz probably purposely led the 150-man aircraft into the hillside. Then, on April 2, 2015, it was announced that they had found the other black box, the data of which confirmed the assumption that the suicide pilot deliberately destroyed the plane and its passengers. So if we think of only this one case, this confirms that such an amendment is important. It does not require any particular explanation that the next part of the bill, the 1997 XLVII on the management and protection of health and related personal data. Amendment of Law can also be fully supported by Jobbik. As well as CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of air, rail and traffic accidents and other traffic incidents. The section on the amendment of the Act, which contains amendments to the professional standards on EU harmonisation and road safety. We did not find any elements that could be judged differently from a political point of view, so Jobbik is also eligible for this. Only one question is 31. With regard to § 4a, which includes the extension of the tasks of the safety body in view of the change in the scope of the events to be notified pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 376/2014. It is estimated that the number of notifications is expected to increase by 50 percent, so it is an appropriate, appropriate, legitimate question whether the staff and infrastructure of the CBS are prepared for this. That's 53. LXXXIV of 2015 on the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways, annexed to the so-called ADN, dated 26 May 2000, is hereby concluded. to amend the law. Here, in the course of the presentation, a detailed explanation has been given, and we can fully support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.10]]
u2015-10-22-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has applied for any further speeches, Honourable Parliament, the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to react as a national. You have the floor, please.
u2015-10-22-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in advance, to thank the supporters for their statements and, in particular, to thank both speakers for their professional thoroughness on such a subject, on all other subjects, but in such a case it is particularly justified. Allow me to respond to a few things. One, in general - that some of the questions raised are answered by the justification of the proposal. As regards the proposals and my response to the comments made by the Member, I must say that I also asked the drafters why disaster protection was not included in this list, so this was a familiar point. The answer was what I repeat here, if I may, that the concept of state aircraft is defined by the Chicago Convention, and the decisive thing is that it is not the task performed by the aircraft that determines classification. For example, air rescue is also a state task, but it is done with civil aircraft under EU rules, so it has a different classification. Thus, the list in the proposal is correct, as we believe it is in line with the Chicago Convention, and now, if we operate with a different conceptual list in the national regulatory sphere, it can only cause confusion if international law differs from the conceptual lists in international treaties. So, let me put it this way, your question makes sense, and I've noticed it, but that's the answer. Both of my fellow Members dealt with the drones issue. The drone is the beautiful new world, so it is obvious that the number of the current hundred thousand, as the Member said, is expected to increase to multiple times. The role and impact of this is both on aviation safety, and I must say that it raises a number of issues and regulatory needs on a number of other security issues, which we also perceive in Hungary, and therefore a ministerial regulation is being prepared to create a flexible, enforceable but safe, safe legislative environment. The EU has the competence to regulate drones over 150 kilograms, and in view of this, the national legislation I referred to above will apply to those below 150 kilograms. Just to note, there have also been a number of, by the way, residential and other registrations, that we would like to create categories in the Ministerial Regulation, depending on size, with strict rules, which are practically identical to those of the larger ones. Allow me, Congresswoman, to mention it at the official fee, because you mentioned an increase in why we are raising the authority fees. We do not increase it; this was not regulated before, it was a classic authority procedure, a request, a authority, a permit, valid for a year or two, and in the event of an extension, a new application had to be submitted, obviously during a new procedure. The administrative service fee - and by the way, this is a general administrative rule - always relates to the application. What is changing is that, under EU regulations, licences do not expire, so there is no one- or two-year repeated renewal obligation, but what has been granted once is valid until withdrawal. In this way, I am convinced that we will not increase the charge, but will have to pay the procedural costs incurred in the course of this unconditional authorisation, which will always be in line with the actual costs. Speaking of authorities, the Member asked whether the authority was prepared for the expected increasing tasks. I believe so, but it is obvious that if there is a change in the years to come, we will take this into account. I believe that the National Transport Authority has, in the past period, been able to perform the tasks, in terms of both personal and material conditions, to say the least. I would like to reassure the Member that HungaroControl is 100% exclusive state-owned, so we do not see any danger in this regard. With regard to the event of 20 August, I believe that this is not a bianko conditionality, but that the 20 August fireworks are a part of the social operation of Hungary, to say the least, and that the organisation and proper organisation of this is certainly a reason to take this into account, according to national rules, even with such a specific exception system. By the way, the need for increased attention in this area shows that all such mass events and even events related to fireworks on 20 August show that we really need to regulate them according to our national or domestic needs and opportunities. Both of my fellow Members have indicated that they wish to submit amendments. Thank you in advance, please submit these, and we will discuss these during the Commission's work. After discussing these, I continue to ask that these regulatory proposals, which will substantially harmonise legislation, in a small part improve and make it more transparent in Hungary and, for example, serve the requirements of the drones for the coming period, be supported. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-22-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of our agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 15:19 p.m.]]
