u2015-06-15-0	Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats, we'll start our work. The 42nd day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be notaries of my assistance. I welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting address on the margins of a failed two-thirds law. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-15-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, the Parliament did not accept the two-thirds points of the law on the transformation of the financial intermediary system. For me, it was amazing how Mr. Rogan, the leader of the group, immediately warmed up there - as the majority of the government had previously taken possession of two thirds of the government - overwhelmed the opposition and said that he had sided with the brokers, that the brokers had bought the opposition. The only way he could have increased that is by adding sums to this. Well, at least everyone could've found out what rate they're counting on in these cases, 'cause I don't know. Returning to the vote, the LMP already said in the general debate on the bill: with this well-educated salad package, the majority of the government wants to avoid burning the Quaestor scandal on it. They talked about tightening up brokerage companies, although there were no two-thirds points about tightening supervision of brokerage firms. They were about, for example, who was responsible for preparing the control plan or what was the exact competence of the conciliation body. For example, the extent to which brokerage firms must be checked at times was not in the two-thirds paragraph. This law would have virtually cemented the situation that the MNB would operate irresponsiblely, illegally, and that the MNB would not have to account for the omissions it had committed as the supervisor of the financial organisation. Moreover, the MNB has been operating for a year without a supervisory board. What moral standard, I ask you, is that I expect someone else to act legally, but I myself do not abide by the law? The facts speak for themselves. The government held billions in Quaestor and actively supported its irresponsible and illegal operation. When the veil fell, the law was quickly created to help the Quaestor victims in order to smear the embarrassing matter, but Baumag, Buda-Cash and Hungária Zrt. the victims have been forgotten. You simply lack the political will to protect people from fraud, especially if they have good government relations. There is a lack of will to finally be determined by political connections, who can receive a passport even when his filth is revealed. And there was a lack of political will when the control system should have been effectively operated so that they would not leave fraudulent brokerage companies without proper control. As a reminder, PSZF and MNB gave Quaestor a license to issue a HUF 350 billion bond for five years, which has been playing more and more clearly pilot games. How can it be, fellow Members, that we have a government standing before us, which has so many times referred to its unprecedented mandate, but when questioned, it points to someone else? We know their answer, which no one believes anymore. We are well aware that it is not only a one-off isolated phenomenon that irresponsible and illegal businesses enjoy top-level protection, even if thousands and tens of thousands of people are deceived. Don't tell me you protected people's investments because you didn't. They do not want to know that the whole financial system should be re-regulated fundamentally, so that the weaker party finally has rights, not just the stronger one, be they tricky brokers or governments that protect their interests. You've become a government of craftsmen. That's exactly what's behind the settlement policy. While the country is being flooded by hate-promoting posters, through offshore companies, taxpayers are being sold hundreds of millions of dollars a month of settlement rights. Interestingly, Fidesz is committed to immigration as long as it can benefit from it. Moreover, this benefit does not come from the budget, but from selected offshore companies, which, in addition to taxing outside the country, obtain a hundred billion-dollar profit with the discount price and commission. Only last year, they had 50 billion of these revenues. Dear Parliament, A lot of people say that with the campaign against immigrants, Fidesz is just trying to distract attention. I disagree. Fidesz does not shift attention, but responsibility, from the problems of Hungarian society itself. Corruption is rampant, 4 million people live in income poverty, young people have to go abroad to work if they do not want to be public workers. And the government doesn't know the answer to that. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-15-2	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-06-15-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll start by showing you a news report from April 19th. [[He's showing me a piece of paper.]] The title of the report by hirado.hu is that the regulation of the financial sector would be tightened by the LMP, so that on 19 April you had your opinion at the press conference that the regulation on financial supervision should be tightened up. However, when the time came for the vote, you said otherwise and voted differently; you spoke differently and did something else. It was said that tightening up was necessary, but when you should have pressed the button and passed the law so that the stricter control system would enter into force as soon as possible, you voted against it. You can't sugarcoat that. It's called a self-goal in sports, football. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] So the LMP kicked self-kicking, and now, as a bad coach, it explains that it's not like that, it's not like that, it's not what they thought, and it's the supervisory board, and it's all that, and it's all that, and it's all bullshit. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Is there a supervisory board or no supervisory board?]] It's called "Maybe Different in Politics." As it turns out, politics can't be different, because all the opposition's parties have done so, unitedly. The policy of the LMP cannot be different, but this policy; the policy that Sallai R. Benedek represents among you is that, while standing up in Parliament and criticizing the system of land applications, he is, by the way, the biggest winner of this. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But how...?]] Turns out he won over 200 acres. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Zero acres!]] Not so many 200 acres after the LMP congressman won. That's the point of your policy, that's a good point. In two weeks, twice came out of the bag, once with Mr. Sallai R. Benedek's land tender system, who didn't want to win that much, but turned out to be ten times the size of this. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] So the desire to be an LMP oligarch is already in Sallai R. Benedek. They did the same thing with this law, because if they said it or not, what happened was that they didn't support the proposal against all their will, and that's how they got on the broker's side. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] If you like it, you don't like it. With no support for tightening up and restructuring, and thus the bill is not adopted, LMP was on this side. I believe that the government has done everything in this regard to ensure that, first of all, the broker scandal is investigated by the authorities as soon as possible and that those responsible are caught and punished as soon as possible, since the investigation, accountability and several perpetrators are already under arrest without precedent. [[11.10]] But the regulation was equally exemplary, because within a few weeks after the scandal broke out, Parliament had already had legislation on tightening up, which we are talking about, it would have had its final vote last week if you had not prevented it. Yes, the government has also made rapid progress in the area of regulation, and I believe that it has done the work that a responsible government must do in such a situation. But he also acted with the same responsibility in terms of compensation, since the Parliament, on its proposal, made the laws by which compensation would be fair to the people. I think that the government [[Intercoms from the LMP lines.]] and the remorse of the majority of Parliament's pro-government on this issue cannot be felt, his conscience can only be felt by the opposition, and in this case the five members of the May Other Group of Politics, who did not support the establishment of a stricter supervisory and control system in Hungary, did not support the fact that such a series of scandals, such a series of broker scandals, would no longer occur in Hungary. I believe that, sooner or later, the politics of May Others must be accounted for for by the fact that this bill has not been supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-4	On behalf of Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, KDNP, before the next agenda, we have a dual responsibility for immigration. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-5	Mr President, Dear House, All responsible politicians have a double responsibility on the issue of immigration. On the one hand, we are responsible for the culture of Europe and the security of Hungarian people, on the other hand, for the people in need of help, for those who are struggling with individual tragedies. We must achieve this double responsibility in a thoughtful, calm and truly responsible manner. Let's start with the phenomenon. In some countries there are chaotic conditions, precisely because of great authority and local criminals. A migration has started, and we should also note that Hungary is the country most threatened by land immigrants. If you look at the data, you will see that this semester's number of illegal border crossings is already over 50,000, this is double the number of immigrants in the previous year, and today, in 2015, the annual number of immigrants is expected to be around 100,000. If this is the phenomenon, what are the consequences for Europe and Hungary? There are those who believe in unlimited immigration, and it is expected from their activities that this Europe will no longer be this Europe in a few decades' time, but another, which has little to do with the traditional European culture that has experienced for thousands of years. The possibility of integration does not exist in relation to those from a distant cultural circle, which may exist with immigrants within the continent, not to mention those outside the borders of the Hungarian nation. But the consequences include the threat to our citizens, because there are quite a lot of people among immigrants who are either a believer of terrorism or members of different criminal groups. Therefore, the safety of citizens is also a requirement for which we have a responsibility. There is the other, seemingly opposite responsibility, our obligation to help individuals in distress. The two are not easy, but we need to coordinate, because let me give you an example. Many homeless people live in Budapest, we have a duty to help them either as politicians or as private people, but not by letting them into our home, not even by allowing free public camping, but by providing them with a roof over their heads, food and clothing, and trying to lead them out of this state. Something similar is the case with immigrants. It is not necessarily necessary to support immigration threatening our own inhabitants, but to provide them with assistance across the border, such as military assistance in certain countries, political help or charity. I know very well that it is not easy to coordinate this dual responsibility, but the situation is not easy, which we need to solve. We must not endanger our own countrymen, we must not endanger traditional European culture, but we must in some way help those who are politically or religiously persecuted. I think that we have taken the first steps to address the problem, but we must not seek an extreme solution, but only a one-off solution. I trust that the Hungarian Parliament, the government, will find this solution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-6	On behalf of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, it is important to state what it is that cannot be debated. Clearly, there can be no debate in the spirit of humanity that Hungary, as civilised countries, must contribute to the human life of these people in their homeland. That is why, with budget money, Hungarian taxpayers' money, we have played a role in Afghanistan, Iraq, through church, civil and charitable organisations in Syria, all over the East. There is no doubt that truly political refugees who are fleeing for their lives for political, religious or ethnic reasons must be accepted by civilised countries, and we must see the human tragedies that are partly caused by the system of these countries, partly the consequences of powerful games and mistakes and the customs collection of smugglers, so on a charitable basis these people must be helped. At the same time, due to the gravity of the situation, the Hungarian nation and the responsibility ahead of history must go beyond the písi framework and it must be made clear that the migrant masses coming from these countries - Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq or North Africa - are, in fact, largely unintegrated, mainly because they do not want to be assimilated or integrated. In many cases, they come from a cultural and religious background that is alien to Europe, even hostile, and with such mentality, and this danger cannot be caused by Europe or by Hungary. And I have to say that the terrorist threat in these cases is not prejudice, it's post judgment, it's just an experiential fact, you have to look at what happened in Paris and London. And how false the dual speech of the Balliberal side is, let me explain the National Assembly with a few details, with some - quote marks - with a pearl eye, when in 2004 the Balliberal side campaigned against dual citizenship in a manner that led to social demagoguey, as if it were an immigrant of foreign Hungarians, and the following was said, for example, by Ferenc Gyurcsány, then Prime Minister. He says:. However, when we tell you that our fellow nation across the border with 800,000 Hungarian IDs is likely to relocate to Hungary, he would use healthcare and social services here, and he would need a pension, we would not alarm, but inform, and we would not tell baseless things, but we would list facts. It will add that it will cost us all 500 billion. [[11.20]] They calculate their party publication, which was made out of government money, that it would cost HUF 167 938 per person per year and HUF 13 995 per month for each citizen. [[György Szilágyi: Shame!]] Or let me introduce you to another gem. István Ujhelyi said, on behalf of the Young Left, that the price of Viktor Orbán's megaloman idea and foreign policy failure would first be paid by young workers. Most of the young Romanian workers will appear in our labour market thanks to the Hungarian government. It is clear, then, that this has a negative impact on our contemporaries who start their own lives without a job. For the Young Left, such a sale of youth's livelihoods and job opportunities is unacceptable. He said it then on the balliberal side. [[Dóra Dúró: Shame! György Szilágyi: Shame!]] Dear House, So we saw that the Balliberal side carried out an anti-immigration campaign in 2004 against foreign Hungarians to social demagogy, and therefore it is completely uncredited when, suddenly, foreign immigrants, I quote, side with it. So I'm saying you're doing twice as irresponsible. The first irresponsible thing was when he campaigned against the citizenship of Hungarians abroad in 2004 and now, in 2015, he wants to prevent the Hungarian nation's self-defense reflexes from preventing us from defending ourselves against this migration, which is a threat to Hungary, a threat to Europe, a threat to Hungarian people and a threat to European people. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-8	Mr István Tukacs, on behalf of the MSZP, asked for a speech before the next agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We can certainly agree that there are very few national issues that require an agreement between political forces and professional organisations. There are few, for there are few cases in our country that do not tolerate being dragged in a different direction every four years. For my part, I refer to health care, education and pension systems. However, we have initiated a debate on health not only because we believe that this agreement should take place, but also because the profession has indicated that it is on the verge of the functioning of health care. He indicated this at his unusually uniform and coordinated protests. He indicated that they were fed up; they were sick of the wages they could not make a living on, and that they were forced to work in two or three jobs. They're sick of the humiliating doctor-doctor, doctor-patient gratuity system. They are tired of not being able to work with the tools they need because of hospital debt, and they cannot do their job. And they are sick and tired of the fact that they are increasingly working because of migration, and because of the impossible situation, they themselves are increasingly thinking about leaving our country. I'm not even talking about the fact that before your patient, it's inconvenient for them that the waiting and booking lists that can be healed are getting longer and longer. When the profession said that, the government constantly tries to have a communication type of health governance. We don't see a coherent system of ideas, thrown in, and almost worth matching, but we do see mosaic fragments. But the only problem with these mosaics is that they can be put together, but they don't shape. Because as such, oncological screening was thrown in as a piece, the consequence of which was not seen; such a mosaic was thrown in to reduce waiting lists first, and then found 5 billion, from which waiting lists did not begin to decrease drastically, and even recently stopped and grew again; such a piece of communication was when you said that you were rearranging the supply system and agreeing with hospitals. I ask where the agreement is and where the publicity is. And I'm not even talking about saying that they're building a hospital in Transylvania, in Partium, Oradea. Anyone who lives in the eastern part of the country knows exactly the difference, and you don't. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What we want to make clear on debate day is that there is a need to negotiate and agree on professional concepts in health care if there is a government intention to significantly increase the health budget. Not for what can be communicated every 5, 1 or 10 billion, but for a significant, one-time, at least 120 billion increase. If we don't have this, there's no point in talking about professional concepts. If we do not have this, there is no point in thinking about the future of health in the long term. You may believe that it is possible to talk in public about the distress of health care; we do not believe in it, and we think that the intention and the money should be there. We can't see the intention from this, and the money is said to have it, but we're spending it on something else. Because this 120 billion is spookily the same as the rate of tax reduction, which is otherwise favourable to the rich, but is not really necessary, a certain 1 percent, and it is spookily, almost inch, equivalent to the amount spent on stadium development, my fellow Members. If it's this way, why isn't there such a decision in health care? Why do protesters not comply with the demand that they want a career model, but at least 50 percent wage development now, and at least a 100 percent career within three to four years? Why don't you want to reduce waiting lists by giving good funding to the institutions? Why don't they want to create good conditions for the doctors to stay home? Why do you think the only way to talk about health care is on a communication basis, but you don't have to do anything about it? Well, that's what we want to talk about on debate day, hopefully with the chance of an agreement. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-06-15-10	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond.
u2015-06-15-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, today, after the questions and immediate questions are passed to Parliament, we intend to have a full day of debate on the issue of health within the walls of this House, on opposition request. When our fellow Members are always talking about the restriction of Parliament's rights, they should not forget that when, for example, they wanted to ask for a separate day of debate on health as their own proposal, oppositional and socialist Members, then, of course, there was an opportunity to do so. In fact, as I looked at it, five or six of us will come up with this issue even in the speeches after the agenda. But, of course, this is an important question, and I hope that this afternoon's debate will be useful. Before I talk about the issue of health, I would like to highlight one thing from my fellow Member, Mr Tukacs's speech, and this is not a need for a tax reduction, in which I think it worked out well what is the policy, budgetary policy, economic policy of the socialists: the tax increase. If you said that the personal income tax reduction in 2016 was not necessary, it means that the socialists would like everyone to have less in their pockets next year. The next year's tax reduction means extra income for all Hungarian taxpayers in such a way that they do not have to pay as a tax. But it was very talkative to say that there was no need for a tax reduction in Hungary. This is what we can expect of the socialists, because if they do not reduce, they usually increase taxes. The MSZP probably does have ideas about health issues left in a drawer, because when they came to government, they always played this area for the liberals, and the SZDSZ has always ruled the area of health. That's why he's stuck in so many drawers and hasn't tried his proposal to the MSZP. We do not know whether these are good or bad, because we have not experienced socialist health policy in 25 years, it has always been given to the SZDSZ, which has tried to reduce health care by privatisation, visit fee, hospital daily allowance and otherwise. If these ideas had gone down, which were in the MSZP-SZDSZ government, then perhaps a health debate day would no longer have such a weight, as many parts of it would have been privatized either by the treasury or by the institutions. On the other hand, in the last five years, as the performance of the economy allowed, we have tried to improve the health situation, obviously by as much as possible from the budgetary situation. However, the amount of HUF 60 billion which, as a hospital debt settlement, has accumulated many years ago and since then, has finally been able to make debts to hospitals disappear and give hospitals a fresh breath to plan their farming without such a burden, I think this is an important step forward. [[11.30]] At the waiting list, Congressman said 5 billion or 1 billion. Not 5 or 1, but 5 and 1, plus 1, plus 1.5 is the amount that, in the last year and a half, the government voted in favour of reducing waiting lists at the beginning of last year, during last year, December and January. We hope that this will help 18,000 people to advance on the waiting list to perform the treatments, the interventions they have been waiting for for for a very long time. It is also important to look at this year's budget for an increase in health resources by 6 percent, which is higher than the pace of economic growth, so the government has increased its resources to health this year's budget to a greater extent than the economic performance has increased. From this, too, we can see that the government wanted to spend additional resources on health care. But if you look at the current total amount of the E-Fund, which will be shown in the draft budget for tomorrow's votes, you can see that there is HUF 53 billion more in the Health Insurance Fund next year than there is this year. Of these, HUF 12.8 billion will be translated to correct the mobile wages of health professionals and doctors. This will obviously be a noticeable, repeated increase in wages. We hope that the 24-27 percent that doctors and nurses have received in the last five years, in 2012 and 2013 with a single wage supplement, the 76 billion forints that we managed to deliver to the health sector have somewhat eased the delays that we can see in wages compared to the value of the work, or that we can see in relation to wages in Western Europe. We know it needs to be increased, but I think it's important that what the government has known has been done for the past five years. If I look at young doctors, next year's budget will have HUF 2.5 billion to support young specialists, so that if they get out of the residency program, their wages will not be reduced from then on. After 10 billion forints last year, an increase in the general medical care system for the next 10 billion forints, plus 7 billion forints for drug support, despite the fact that more than 40 active substances have been added to the supported medicines. At the same time, prices have been significantly reduced. There is also a HUF 4.9 billion surplus for the purchase of medical aids, and how much extra resources we try to provide, but we can continue this on debate day. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-12	To speak before the next agenda, Mr János Volner submitted a statement on what is Fidesz's secret about the brokerage scandal? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Several months have passed since the brokerage scandal started, so it is worth reviewing the main developments in this scandal and how the government has dealt with this situation. We have learned that during the period of the Socialist Government, the Hungarian Development Bank granted a guarantee of HUF 16.9 billion to Quaestor. It can be speculated which was the other government that skipped the complaint in 2010 in this case. It was the Fidesz, please. They filed this complaint, it didn't turn out to be anything. At the time when the Financial Supervisory Act came before the Parliament in 2010, I presented 24 amendments myself, proposals that could have prevented the emergence of a broker scandal, tightened up the control, tightened up the responsibility of bankers and brokers. Fidesz voted against and the MSZP voted against this motion. They voted no for him when it was possible to prevent trouble. What we can see now is that both at Buda-Cash and at Quaestor, as well as at Kun-Mediator, where we can see fidesz politicians with socialist ties in the background, there are both parties, Fidesz and the socialists. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who's behind the Kun-Mediator?]] We can see that this is a series of frauds that have been going on for 15 years, for so long neither the socialists nor the Fidesz ever had a fair check of these brokerage companies. In fact, there's a brokerage scandal. On 15 March, in the middle of the broker scandal, the government decorated Charles Szász for his outstanding work at the head of financial supervision, ladies and gentlemen. It has been proven that only Fidesz - this is the password that characterizes their politics every day. And what can we see? How does accounting take place? There hasn't been a final judgment in the Key Price case in 12 years. Since then, Fidesz hasn't been able to account for those responsible. But what do we see here in the Quaestor area? There is only one company in the brokerage scandal, where Fidesz raises the investor protection threshold from HUF 6 million to HUF 30 million, five times the original legal value. We think it's right for everyone, but Fidesz only extends it to the Quaestor. I wonder what's going on, what's there to do five times, and with the other companies in trouble, the state says they don't think anything about getting the victims here, they've lost their money. For example, in my constituency, Cegléden and its surroundings there are 25,000 victims, according to some reports, of the Hungária Securities business, and they do not want any compensation from the government. It is also worth considering why Jobbik did not support the two-thirds pass when the government brought this proposal to the vote. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's hear it.]] Our position has been very clear from the beginning, and it has been very clear, Mr State Secretary, that we would also like to negotiate with you in secret, not behind closed doors, what laws we should adopt in the broker scandal or how. From the very first moment, we have told you that we demand that the names of those who, in the last period, have recovered money from the Quaestor based on inside information. You have rejected this demand, the proposal has not been submitted or voted against. It is quite obvious that the government has something to hide in this area. We also said that if the government does not hide the names of these people and businesses under bank secrecy, we will not be the only ones who will be happy to vote in favour of this legislation. We have the LMP on our side, and they're gonna vote yes to that. But, Mr. Secretary, you keep on keeping secrets. Why? We considered it important that Fidesz MEPs, together with the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank, declare that they are aware of their criminal liability, did not withdraw money from Quaestor during the last period. The representatives of other parties have done this, and you still haven't done it. Why? Don't you have something to hide? And we also consider it very important that the shameful situation that the socialist governments and you have all done together, that you put the money of state institutions into crooked brokerage companies, so that you can freely stock on the market. In these claims, Jobbik and LMP agree with the opposition parties, the socialists are hitting on them, and Fidesz says no. If you want us to adopt this legislation, Mr Secretary of State, then make it clear that you were not involved. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-14	On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond.
u2015-06-15-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I begin by saying that if you have any knowledge that anyone has committed a crime or suspects that you have had inside information and abused it in connection with the broker scandal, be it the politician who has committed it or is not a politician, whether it is a fidesz or not, come in, please, to the authorities and press charges. By the way, it is also bound by the oath of the Members of Parliament not to suspect things here, rather than to show off the pro-government politicians, while he does not know anything. But you think that as a opposition politician, you can do that. By the way, you and your party are the second in Parliament today, who washes. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] He's washing up because they made a serious mistake, and last week, they didn't vote to tighten the financial supervision system. They made this mistake, all three opposition parties, and now, obviously, we need to explain to the public why they didn't do it. [[Dóra Dúró: We don't have to explain.]] That's not what you're talking about, Deputy Group Leader and Jobbik, and you're doing something completely different. When you have to stand in front of the public, you do the same thing as the LMP, you say that such a tightening up is necessary, you submitted this in 2010, but in 2015, when you were here before Parliament, you didn't vote for it, you didn't vote for it, and your faction didn't vote for it. So I think you're communicating differently and making a completely different choice. But they're not alone in this matter. I could name some of them. I'm gonna highlight one of these, okay? The issue of our membership of the European Union. [[11.40]] It is not the first good thing that they think differently in 2010 and in 2015 they think differently again. The European Union was also thought to have been said by party president Gábor Vona in front of many tens of thousands of people that we must leave the European Union. Now he denies it in Parliament, explains that he didn't say it, doesn't think so. [[György Szilágyi: That's a lie!]] But the same is the case, let us say, with their position on the Hungarian Guard, their position on the Yeller Army. Let these be as far away as possible today [[Happy István: Crowding of jobs!]] Although, as far as I know, Jobbik has been formed on their foundation, on their germs, and is doing its work today. Or a small matter that the party president says a flag has been set on fire, not telling the truth, that a better man has set the flag of the European Union on fire. Little things like that. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. Dr. András Schiffer: And where is the EU flag?]] which, by the way, highlights Jobbik's policy [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the EU flag?]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the EU flag?]] points out that they did speak and think differently (Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the EU flag?) It's the same as in 2015. And, of course, they will be helped by Mr. András Schiffer LMP leader. [[Deterioration from the benches of Jobbik and LMP. Crying from the benches of Fidesz: Green Fascists!]] I think the faction leader could sit in the Jobbik faction and continue yelling at me during my speech. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the EU flag?]] So when you're asking for Fidesz, I suggest you settle the issue first. For example, that László Lukács's associate law firm in Karcagon [[Dr. András Schiffer: Isn't a complaint enough?]] He's in the immediate vicinity of the Kun-Mediator. [[There's a lot of noise, interference from Jobbik's benches. Gergely Farkas: It was a report!]] To date, it has not been clarified. [[Sándor Burány: Unbelievable!]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: Isn't a complaint enough?]] He's in the immediate vicinity of the Kun-Mediator. (Big noise, interruptions from Jobbik's benches. - Gergely Farkas: It was a report! To date, it has not been clarified (Sándor Burány: Incredible!) Whether this law firm was involved in Kun-Mediator's activities, provided legal assistance, helped customers to make a fuss. To date, no answer has been given (Dr. András Schiffer: One complaint is not enough?) They threatened me because I dared to say it in Parliament, and I'm going to have to go to court for it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: False indictment!]] Let Jobbik first respond to what happened compared to their position in 2010. In 2010, they were in favour of tightening the financial supervision system, and now they are against it because they voted against it. That's what you have to answer to now, not Fidesz, you. Answer why you sided with the brokers. Because by rejecting this law and not allowing it to come into force as soon as possible, they voted it off and sided with the brokers, not with the depositors. They used to be on the bankers' side, at least in their communications. But there is still room for Jobbik to improve, because we will bring the bill back to Parliament and ask Jobbik to change its position. [[György Szilágyi: Have you made it public where the money has gone from the Quaestor?]] stand by the country's interests, stand by the many people who have invested [[György Szilágyi: It must be made public!]] and vote for the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-16	Tamás Vargha, on behalf of Fidesz, asked for his last speech before the agenda: Székesfehérvár is the engine of Hungary's development. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in economic terms, Székesfehérvár is not only the Central Transdanubian region, but also one of the strongest and most advanced cities in the country, an area of 280 thousand people, which is constantly developing its health, education, culture, sport, labour market and economic centre. Székesfehérvár is the historic city where our state-founding King St. Stephen convened the law-seeing days in August of each year and built one of the largest and most grandiose churches in Europe, which was a place of coronations, royal weddings and funerals for centuries. Székesfehérvár is the city that gives the nation a multitude of people who have been educated as school towns for hundreds of years; and Székesfehérvár is also the city that is the cradle of Hungarian ice hockey, where every year thousands of young children and students play sports, and the city where he became a champion on Video. Ladies and gentlemen, Innovative and dynamic development based on strong historical traditions. This can be multiplied and speeded up by the agreement between the Prime Minister and the mayor of the city, the programme of the modern cities. The University Education Hospital of Szent György Fejér County is of strategic importance in the Lake-Buda axis of Lake Balaton-Velence. We are ready to continue the development concept that has already been started within the framework of the programme, to continue centralising complex care by building a new medical block, and to develop a new oncology centre in the knowledge of the sources. We are also planning to build a high school education campus, which on the one hand creates the opportunity to expand current training content adapted to the needs of economic operators and further strengthens our existing artistic and foreign language training. The centre of the city is still the downtown of our thousand years of history, our built heritage, which we have a duty to protect, nurture and inherit for future generations. Here, in the immediate vicinity of the national memorial, we find our artistic and cultural institutions. In line with the Árpád-ház programme, we would like to extend the community space in both the north and the south, both in a spiritual and physical sense, and we will implement a modern cultural district with a wide range of programs that can accommodate visitors in a manner that is appropriate to the city's past and offer an attractive opportunity for the city from a tourist point of view. Székesfehérvár has been in direct and live contact with Lake Venice with the recently completed and now popular bicycle route. It is worth further strengthening this relationship, because it can be significant for visitors to our city and region, but it also serves to improve the quality of life of the people of Fehérvár. All those who live in the city today, and those who will be here in the future, will find work here in the field of health, culture or industry. With our apartment program, we want to help you find a permanent home in Székesfehérvár. To buy back Székesfehérvár-Börgönd Airport, our city has received significant support from the government in recent years. In order to move on, together with the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of National Economy, we will develop plans and ideas that will give further impetus to the economy of Fehérvár. Given the success and attractiveness of cultural and sporting events, I think it is time to develop the necessary infrastructure. So we will start designing a multifunctional hall and do the necessary preparatory work to ensure that this can be done as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, The program is a complex development process, which continues the work that the city's management started with the support of the government in the previous cycle, thus ensuring the success of Székesfehérvár and Hungary here in Europe in order to continue to build a strong and successful community in an environment worthy of the foundations of a thousand-year history. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-18	Dear Parliament, Secretary of State L. Simon László wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It is indeed true, as the Member summarized in his speech before the agenda. Székesfehérvár is one of Hungary's leading cities, one of the strongest engines of this country in both intellectual, cultural and economic terms. This is why the Government considered it important that the Prime Minister and Mayor András Cser-Palkovics conclude an agreement within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" in order to carry out a number of investments that are not primarily aimed at economic recovery, but rather at improving the city's infrastructure, cultural infrastructure and health services. The background of this is, as we have just heard from you, that the outstanding economic performance of Székesfehérvár, the tax power of the companies established there, and its tax capacity today, result in an extremely stable economic situation in Székesfehérvár, so the government must focus much more on improving cultural and health infrastructure. In 2014, the town of Székesfehérvár counted 99 060 people. I think that this about 100,000 people have, for many years, made Székesfehérvár one of the largest and strongest cities in our country. The figures before us show that Székesfehérvár was also able to perform the economic miracle of increasing the number of people employed year after year, increasing the number of workers travelling from the region year after year. [[11.50]] We can boast that this city, with 100,000 inhabitants, can give jobs to some 30,000 people from the region; nearly 30,000 commutes every day from the surrounding settlements and even from more than 50 kilometres to Székesfehérvár, which shows that the industrial performance is indeed excellent in Székesfehérvár. In addition, Székesfehérvár is also a traditional school town, high school education - both high school and vocational school education - is extremely strong. As a result, about 10,000 students travel to Székesfehérvár every day, so, as my fellow Member said earlier, as the centre of the region, there are about 280 thousand inhabitants, so in addition to the 99 to 100 thousand inhabitants of the city, 180 thousand more inhabitants use the services provided by the city. The industrial performance of the city is well demonstrated by the fact that the unemployment rate in Székesfehérvár is less than 3 per cent compared to the national unemployment rate of 7.6 per cent. So that indicates that practically anyone who wants to work in the city can work. I think it speaks for itself. In Fejér County, thanks to God, demographic developments are positive, which is largely linked to the fact that Székesfehérvár can give you enough work. In 2013 the number of births stagnated, while the national was still running low. In 2014, as the rate of population loss slowed down and even increased, this was even higher in Székesfehérvár and Fejér county. We can say that the employment situation in Fejér county is improving year after year, resulting in an increase in employment rate of 1.9 percent over a year, more than three-quarters of employees being employed by the competition sector and 23 percent by the budgetary sector. There were more people working in both areas last year than before last year. Nearly two thirds of workers belonged to the physical base, with an increase in numbers of more than average, by 2.7 percent. The average monthly earnings of full-time employees in the county amounted to HUF 224 thousand in 2013, 3.8 percent more than in the previous year, the national growth was only 3.4 percent compared to this, and in the case of Székesfehérvár we can tell even better figures. The elements of the agreement that my fellow Member has highlighted are indeed important. This is precisely what the government wants to support in the direction of the city, which is to improve the quality of life in the city. That's why we need to further develop the University Education Hospital of Fejér County. Unlike the failed strategy of the previous socialist period, there is indeed a need to improve oncological care, to create a concert hall in the downtown, and to link downtown with Zichy Liget, tourism and local residents. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-20	Dear Parliament, He applied for a speech after today's agenda: Zoltán Lukács, MSZP; István Tukacs, MSZP; László Szakács, MSZP; Anita Heringes, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Gábor Harangozó, MSZP; Sándor Szabó MSZP; László Teleki, MSZP; Imre Horváth, MSZP; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik, our fellow Member. I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting on 16-17 June 2015. His letter indicated in the annex all the proposals that the government initiated to negotiate at the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission is T/4730. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was conducted by the sectoral committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/4730/593. The reports of the committees related to the debate are available on the IT network on numbers T/4730/577, 578, 580, 582, 584, 586, 588, 589, 591, 594, 596, 598 and 599. During the hearing of the bill, the draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets, acting as the legislative committee, is T/4730/601. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/4730/602. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. The rapporteur of the committee, including the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions drafted in writing, may speak within a total 60-minute period of 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. I give the floor to Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets.
u2015-06-15-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Secretary of State! Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 10 June 2015 and 11 June 2015, the Parliament's Committee on Budgets assessed the Commission's proposals for amendments to the bill and concluded a detailed debate on them. The Committee on Budgets discussed the bill and examined the amendments contained in the annex to the summary report as well as their compliance with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. Article 44 and Article 44 (1) (a) and (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Committee on Budgets expressed and accepted an intention to amend further, with which the rapporteur agreed. The Committee presented the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth discussion it supported and a summary amendment containing the amendment it had made. Overall, the amendments do not affect the main directions or main figures of the budget. By submitting the proposal, the target of 2% deficit under the 2016 EU methodology remains unchanged. All in all, there is a substantial change that the budget for the National Defence Fund will be reduced from HUF 100 billion to HUF 70 billion. Furthermore, the measure submitted to the tax laws, which reduces the amount of the bank tax, will lead to a reduction in the burden on the banking sector by HUF 10 billion and hopefully increase the willingness to lend. The summarised amendment partially introduces technical amendments and clarifications in the legislation, including amendments previously tabled and supported by the Committee, and partly introduces new provisions in the proposal. Dear House, Since the detailed description of the full 87-page amendment goes beyond the framework of this speech and is available on the Parliament's website as a whole, allow me to comment on only the most important substantive amendments. The Minister of National Economy provides for HUF 15 billion instead of HUF 3 billion in support of the national economic support budget, in view of the pre-existing multiple needs and the one-off costs of opening six new embassies, HUF 3871 million, HUF 300 million for the extension of the bandwidth of Sulinet 2884's end-point, for the maintenance and maintenance of national sports centres, the new facilities such as the Tüskekcsarnok and Swimming Pool, the schoolhouses, the National Handball Academy and the National Basketball Academy, and the renovated Mátraház training camp provide HUF 797,8 million, providing an individual support of HUF 30 million for the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, and allocated HUF 552,3 million for the preparation for the 2016 summer Olympic Games. For the renovation of the Buda Vígado building, which is the seat of the House of Tradition and the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the 2016 implementation will be ensured. [[12.00]] In view of this, I would like to call on my fellow Members to support the summarised amendment and to vote on the budget tomorrow. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-22	Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented, which will be presented by four Members within a total timeframe of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Sándor Burány... [[Sándor Burány: Wrong!]] Then I'll give the floor to Congressman László Szakács first.
u2015-06-15-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The minority opinion of the Socialist Party, which was submitted at the committee meeting, is about the following. In our view, the bill on the submitted central budget is the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 does not comply with the professional requirements and conditions of the legislation laid down in paragraph 1 (d), given that certain appropriations provided for in the budget cannot be considered justified. It cannot be considered to be in line with the professional requirements of the legislation that there is nothing to know about the content of other sales and exploitation revenue appropriations of HUF 115 billion among the revenue of the budget in relation to public assets. At the same time, this risk is already capable of endangering public finances and deficit targets, as well as reducing these deficit targets resulting from the Fundamental Law. In our view, Article 36 (2) of the Fundamental Law does not comply with the bill submitted, even though this is the subject of the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 (a) requires. Legislative proposals on the central budget and its implementation should include public expenditure and revenue in the same structure, transparently and in reasonable detail. In our view, on the basis of this provision, the budget does not meet this requirement, since there is an income of 115 billion to the State, which is not sufficiently described in the context of the sale and exploitation of state assets. In our view, the preparation of the bill on Hungary's 2016 budget suffers from a number of errors. For our country, there is no advantage in adopting this law in such a timely manner. I am sure that this House also remembers that my fellow Members remember that the last time they used this instrument, the next annual budget had to be amended seven times in one year until it was adopted. Not to mention that there is neither such regulation in the European Union nor such an example which would show this and show the signs of forward-looking and stability. As we have read in the foundational bill, Minister Varga would not disclose or, of course, have access to the vast majority of the figures relating to the budget, because there is no factual data, and Minister Varga refers to this competitiveness. However, Hungary, we believe that in competitiveness, it is still a driving force among the Visegrád Four, so we do not think that these data should be kept secret. It is also worth mentioning the opinion of the Fiscal Council, as, at the moment of the submission of the bill, the Council considers that the budget submitted did not comply with all the public financial regulations in force. In other words, the approval of the budget submitted by the government should have been simply refused by the Fiscal Council under Hungarian legislation. Otherwise, the budget must enforce the debt formula set out in the Stability Act. Minister Matolcsy himself said that this is a modern formula, this formula helps us, the most modern rule in the EU is this debt rule, a serious weapon in economic history. This debt formula has not been applied, and yet the Fiscal Council, including the President of the Central Bank of György Matolcsy, has delivered an opinion on the budget. True, the Council's opinion was not signed by President György Matolcsy. In our opinion, the budget in Hungary does not alleviate the problems that Hungary is facing. Many sectors in Hungary have had problems, and for several years there has not been an increase in family support, the amount of social care, or even a reduction of 20%. For example, the government will spend less on disability and rehabilitation benefits next year again, with nearly HUF 13 billion compared to the 2012 annual appropriation, and therefore HUF 35 billion less on these costs compared to the year before the restructuring. As a justification for further decreasing appropriations for disability and rehabilitation benefits next year, it is stated that the expected impact of the reviews is based on the need to spend less. In Hungarian: more and more people will see that they are cured, the pension fund has been offering for years the same degree of opportunity to increase the equity of extremely low pensions, and as the Orbán government has withdrawn 100 billion from public services in previous years, thus significantly reducing education, social and health expenditure. We believe that these people deserve more, by the way, so we have proposed a wage increase for those workers who work in these spheres, and we believe that these workers have been deceived and exploited by the Orbán government. The optimism surrounding the government in the economy is not justified either. We believe that we are still lagging behind in relation to the countries in the region, despite the pride of Fidesz on 0.6 percent growth, since it was 0.8 per cent in Slovakia, 1 per cent in Poland, 1.6 per cent in Romania and 2.8 per cent in the Czech Republic compared to last quarter. 4600 companies have been closed down. The budget for the tax reduction - I can't say the quotation mark now - is only enough to leave 80-90 billion forints of this 120 billion that the state doesn't collect, and not to those who live as badly as possible in this country. For this reason, the MSZP is presenting proposals for amendments that can provide a real solution to the problem, because as long as Hungarian salaries are simply impossible to make a living, this 1 percent reduction is worthless. Our aim is to increase the resources provided for wage development and career models in the public sector, including primarily those in the social sphere, education and health sector, by more than double, without compromising the balance of the budget, but without raising the target. That's the Socialist Party's opinion. I'd like to ask you to support our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-15-24	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2015-06-15-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin the debate on the summary amendment with our amendments, which, unfortunately, have not been included in this proposal, even though we believe that it was very important proposals. One of these immediately, which we have asked for a separate vote before the House, is that after eight years, the House should finally raise the civil servant's salary to a fair degree, because we think it is against government justifications that this amount is appropriate, sufficient, and particularly proud of the government that it has been held for eight years on this 38 650 forints, so we believe that it is indeed a dictatorship of a foreign organisation. In particular, it is the IMF's dictatorship, which Ferenc Gyurcsány concluded in a shameful manner, and that is what the Orbán government is now, despite the fact that he has not already fought a freedom fight with the IMF. In this connection, I would also like to say that the career models, the career model promises that you have drafted and put in the Prime Minister's Office chapter, we believe, unfortunately, that these will only remain promises. Look at the additional salary promised to social workers, it also shows a significant decrease compared to last year, so it is feared that it is only promises, beautiful words, but the reality will be completely different in 2016 than what you have just promised here. The other point related to this is the issue of car taxation, as you promised to reduce the tax burden in any case for the general public. In a sense, this is partly the case, but at the same time we see that the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities is significantly reduced in terms of task financing, and that the tax on motor vehicles, which would have been a freely used part of their budget, is significantly reduced. It has already decreased in the last year and in the previous year, thus forcing the municipalities to impose significant burdens, raise local taxes and impose municipal taxes on the population, which, in turn, will significantly increase the tax burden overall. [[12.10]] In the Commission's debate, the Secretary of State asked whether there was such a statement that overall the tax burden would increase, even if you wanted to reduce the tax burden by, say, 1 percent. Yes, there is such a statement, the tax burden increases significantly. I would like to talk about the withdrawal of investments in the European Union, because this will also hit our settlements to a significant extent, namely that, in connection with the 2007 to 2013 projects, if, for what is said to be the reason for the settlements, certain payments will not be made, then you will save this on the settlements, in Hungarian, from the system of financing of tasks, they will simply deduct this so-called penalty from the monthly net funding. Of course, what is to blame for a settlement or what is not, it is moving within a rather serious from to and including, there is a great deal of room for manoeuvre in this regard for the government, and we know that in this respect Minister Lazarus is fully empowered to decide on this matter. We believe that this is a far-reaching and extremely arbitrary thing that we are dealing with here. It is very strange and surprising for us that the Orbán government will lie again in accordance with point 103, namely the extra development allowance for the non-debt consolidation settlements, which is HUF 12.5 billion. We know that this year, too, they have been deceived, because instead of the promised amount, they will only receive nearly HUF 9 billion, and they will now lose HUF 1 billion of the 12.5 billion planned for the future, according to the overall amendment proposal. So the Orbán government has failed in this sense in terms of truth. You intend to raise revenue from state wealth from 121 billion to 140 billion. What could be the basis for this, what could be behind it, we cannot know, because, as we know, the House has recently adopted the bill to encrypt certain materials, preparatory works and calculations relating to budget planning for 2 years or, in a sense, 10 years. So what you're really planning to do as an income of 140 billion forints in this line of work, I might add: these are extremely dark and bad guesses; we can't even begin to think about what the Fidesz government is about to drum up right now. Surprisingly, in the framework of personalised legislation, you are also raising individual municipal subsidies for the Pesthidekút swimming pool. By the way, I would like to say that we welcome this, because you promised to have a new swimming pool for Hungary, the population of Hungary, per district. Yes, this promise is one that is moving very fast, and surprisingly only Fidesz settlements and Fidesz municipalities are taking part in it, and they are based on such unique decisions as the Pesthidekkut district. Last but not least, it is very surprising to us that the Office for Immigration and Nationality of the Ministry of Interior will receive some HUF 323 million less than this year, when you are campaigning all the time about what a huge burden it is, what a terrible challenge for Hungary is the wave of immigrants - and let us add, so there is - that has occurred in the last year or two along our southern borders. I would like to ask you with deep respect, because there is not a single explanation for this in the summary amendment proposal as to why, right now, right here, it is precisely from this office that, in terms of both personal and material expenditure, total HUF 323 million is taken away. This, I think, cannot be justified in any way, cannot be supported by any number, because the tasks of this office will only increase dramatically and will grow in the future, unfortunately, so if anything, then this office should actually be strengthened and supplemented with at least that amount of money, rather than that amount of money being taken away from it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-26	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-06-15-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The following is a summary of LMP's minority position in the Commission's debates on the Finance Act. In view of the government proposal, this budget, as we have already said, is a budget for further demise, poverty, and desperation. Everything around the world and at home has been tilting towards the rich over the past few decades. In spite of economic growth, if the majority of people and businesses do not benefit from it, the top 1-5 per cent of the profits - this is worth considering when the majority of government talks about GDP growth in Hungary. This is why the reduction of differences is the most important today, and its number one tool is progressive income tax and higher taxation of capital income. This goes completely against the neoliberal economic policy of Fidesz, which is represented by a single-key tax, and is based on the support of the rich and multinational companies from many sources. Therefore, Hungary's biggest task is to catch up on wages, to eradicate workers' poverty. On a large scale, 4 million citizens live on income below the minimum living level, and this is due to the conscious policy of Fidesz. For millions more, living means living from month to month. Four-fifths of society have no financial resources, i.e. they are incapable of increasing their individual abilities and human and social capital on their own. In addition, low minimum wages have an adverse impact on the productivity of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. In the field of education, 250 billion HUF is still missing, 200 billion from the maintenance and operation of public education, 50 billion from the funding of higher education. By replacing these resources, we would only be able to reach the level of the years before 2010, while according to the LMP it would be necessary to increase further the resources. In total, the education budget will increase by HUF 6 billion. If the planned GDP expansion is achieved, the amount of resources spent on education will even decrease proportionately. Once again, the government has broken its promise to educators, and next year's budget will not include an increase in the teaching title fund. There are still no wage increases for staff directly assisting education, as well as those working in higher education and cultural areas. The adoption of the draft budget in the form of the present will further increase workers' poverty in the educational and cultural field. The draft budget is also not suitable to ensure a constitutional fundamental right to a healthy environment. For example, despite the apparent increase in subsidies, national parks would actually be bled out by next year's budget. The loss of land-based subsidies over 1200 hectares and then the removal of land trust rights will take more than HUF 2 billion out of their register, which is not adequately compensated by the few hundred million forints provided by the budget as compensation. The situation in environmental remediation is even more mournful. For the purpose of remediation, the government's draft budget provides approximately zero forints. This is not only unacceptable, but also unconstitutional, because it means that there will be no money in 2016 to eliminate the sources of pollution where it is not known or can not be paid. Only 1.2 billion would be spent on conservation compensation instead of 1.55 billion this year; this would be sufficient to compensate for damage to protected species and restrictions on nature conservation in a single county, ridiculously few at national level. There are only HUF 54 million in health-damaging particulate matter, reducing PM10 concentration. One third of the Hungarian population lives in an area of contaminated air, and the premature and unnecessary expansion of the nuclear power plant would be dedicated only to the planning of 113 billion. At the same time, there is a lack of coverage of investments to increase energy efficiency in the public sector. Maintaining the 27 percent VAT rate is not only unfair, but also a hotbed for corruption. [[12.20]] Extending the possibilities of the Stability Savings Account and maintaining the long-term fiscal amnesty will in practice open a state money launder for black economy players. The planned Paks enlargement is already a burden to the budget, while creating a highly centralised electricity grid, which necessarily also represents a greater risk and vulnerability. We say we need a responsible and radical reconfiguration. In total, 73 amendments were tabled to the budget. In these, we would transfer more than 1600 billion forints through the budget, but without taking a single forint. Without reducing the budgetary reserve, everything we have proposed could be achieved. The abolition of a single-key tax system is the main element of our proposals. We would introduce progressive personal income tax with zero, 12 and 24 percent keys, and we would also significantly reduce the contributions of small and medium-sized enterprises. With this, we could take a huge step in the right direction next year towards the eradication of workers' poverty, sustained growth, human and environmental values. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-15-28	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2015-06-15-29	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This budget does not serve the civilization of Hungary. This budget, along with the tax law, is taking a wrong path that, like the previous years, distributes the future's wealth to adults today from the future's children. It does not help economic progress, does not help growth, does not help knowledge, does not help those in need of help. It does not promote creativity, there are no incentive mechanisms. This year's ideas of Viktor Orbán's cabinet do not meet the real needs and needs of the inhabitants of Hungary. This is the budget of the Prime Minister to the castle! Program, the stadium in all the villages! Program, the Russian atom for our grandchildren! The program and the service work for everyone! It's in the spirit of a program. These priorities include everything that governs the government, but this does not promote civilization. In recent fidesz years, it has been proven that the tax system has not worked. No one has spent more money on investments, no one has spent more. The proceeds transferred to the better-moders disappeared without a trace. Indeed, there are families that benefit from the planned provisions of the budget and the new tax legislation, but where more money is needed for food, study, meaningful work, support services, there is less and less. And civilization means that as many people as possible can reach the standard of living of the middle class. The biggest problem of the family policy system in Orbán is that it supports those who already have one. Under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, the barrier of civilization continues to rise in Hungary. This is the biggest failure of free Hungary. The Orbán government doesn't want to change this sad trend. On the other hand, it's good for someone who finds themselves in the Fidesz clientele. Stadium, road and castle builders, monopolistic energy and street lamp dealers, tobacco dealers, Trafikers, government propaganda prices disguised as research institutes - they are the ones that this budget feeds. So the Orbán system is not only a barrier to civilization but also a deeply immoral system. As a careful parent in a good family, there is no question of what we do for ourselves. For the education of our children, our parents' health, home, good work, a responsible politician spends money on school, health care and quality work. During the very sporadic budgetary debates over the last few weeks, it has been proven that the careful consideration of a good parent is completely lacking in the budget. The government's completely lifeless and anti-childish school interventions are destroying the potential of a generation. The problem is not only that schools that have been disenfranchised because of centralisation and withdrawal of funds cannot provide adequate education. Now the government is pressing for a drop-out in high school. Everyone knows today that knowledge is the only way to make a living. Everyone knows that students also need a stable basic knowledge. Everyone knows the value of graduations, there's a price on the market. However, you want to take away the opportunity to gain knowledge from children. It's simply shockingly irresponsible! You're about to abandon a generation of children. The same thing happens at universities. There has been ongoing uncertainty among young people for five years, referring to reorganizations. Talk to a high school senior once. They do not want to stay in Hungary, as Minister Lazarus says, because there is not enough salary. Young people are leaving Hungary because you are unable to create a predictable and motivating education system. Who would want to participate in your anti-knowledge experiments? Without universities, there is no development, no future, and no civilization. I am very sorry that all of you voted against the amendments that I have tabled for the sake of civilization. Health is another key issue in Hungary. We need to change it before the whole system crashes on us. Hospital debt needs to be stopped, and this requires additional resources and structural reforms, including private capital. If they wanted to create something big, they'd start a health reform that was delayed 20 years ago. I regret that my amendments in this direction have not been supported by you. It will also have disastrous consequences for your employment policy. In your world, the community work programme has long since been attended by the people you wanted, but by young people with a degree. Is that really what we want? Is that really necessary? I made my amendment on the basis of the programme "To Work Together, Get Well," which would offer people real solutions instead of a dead end. The essence of these is job-seeking insurance and contract-based cooperation support, which not only explores jobs for the unemployed, but also helps them with knowledge and skills that they can really move on with. Your proposals trigger a completely opposite process. I'm sorry that my corrective amendment proposals have been voted off. The 700 billion-dollar transfer package I have proposed has not been approved by the Fidesz majority. School and knowledge, hospital and health, ability and work have not passed through your dense web. Civilisation, civil Hungary will be if the government will help those who cannot overcome their own disadvantages from home. Civilization will be if more and more people learn. Civilisation will be if more and more people can live a better life, but this does not stand a chance in the world of Viktor Orbán, so this budget is totally unacceptable. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-15-30	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, by giving a total of ten minutes at the end of the speech.
u2015-06-15-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The disciplined fiscal policy implemented by the government in recent years, a significant improvement in external balance, and a reduction in the debt of the state and households all contributed to the fact that the Hungarian economy is now on a sustainable growth path. The latest macroeconomic data also show that the growth of the Hungarian economy started in 2013 continued to grow and became permanent, thus creating a healthier, more balanced growth structure. The government's aim is to maintain this development and the predictability of economic processes in 2016. The early preparation and adoption of the 2016 budget by Parliament implies security and predictability, with Hungary already in the middle of the year having detailed figures of next year's budget, the size of the planned deficit and debt. [[12.30]] The 2016 budget bill was drawn up on the basis of a conscious, pre-planned process, as well as the previous budgets submitted by the government. From the outset, government budget policy has focused on the inseparable goals of job creation, support for families and economic recovery. Therefore, the most important feature of the 2016 budget, one of the main aspects of planning a budget that facilitates people's daily lives, is the reduction of the burden on families. Next year there will be more money than Hungarian families, we will spend more on supporting children and raising children, preserving the value of pensions and creating jobs. The 2016 budget is also the budget for the tax reduction. Accordingly, the reduction of personal income tax from 16 percent to 15 percent in 2016 represents an increase in income for 4 million Hungarian workers, leaving HUF 120 billion for Hungarian families. The family tax relief that can be implemented by families raising two children will gradually double in four years, from HUF 10 thousand per month to HUF 12 500 in 2016. By reducing the VAT rate for pig meat to 5%, the government will improve the situation of families with another measure. The reduction of public service charges and charges, the reduction of public utility bills, will save 10 billion HUF for companies and families. The government also supports families in need by extending the free textbook supply: from 2016 the textbook supply will be free of charge in the entire lower school, and from the upper classes, this service will be insured taking account of the need. Support for families, including the financing of children's meals, has always been a priority task for the government. As from the autumn of 2015, up to 230 thousand children can eat free of charge as part of the extension of the free nursery and nursery meals. The achievement of this priority objective will continue in 2016. In the framework of the armed and police career model, starting with an average increase of 30 per cent from July 2015, wages will increase by another 5 per cent from 2016. The introduction of a government-official career model will start in July 2016, for which adequate collateral is available in the provision. The salary increase of teachers will continue as set out in the career model. Every year until 2017 the wages of workers in the sector will increase, and in 2016 the progress of the qualification of teachers will also contribute to the rise in wages. In the health sector, progress is made in the field of health professionals, doctors, especially in the field of mobile wages, while in improving the income situation of young specialists. In addition, the social sector wage replacement will continue in the following year. Thanks to the new application cycle, which started last year, some HUF 1000 billion of EU funds will be available to the beneficiaries next year. This is complemented by resources for the economic development programmes of counties and cities with county rights in the order of HUF 100 billion. Overall, the 2016 budget will ensure that Hungary's long-term economic chances are improved, our international competitiveness is increased and people's well-being is increased. That's all I had in mind for the start of the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-32	Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. MEPs with a parliamentary background may speak against the time frame of the factions if they have indicated their intention to speak to the faction. MEPs who do not have a political background and who sign up directly may use a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent representative. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. This means that my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Burány, has the opportunity.
u2015-06-15-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The amendments tabled by the MSZP to the draft budget law and to the related so-called foundational package and to the tax laws were essentially aimed at achieving a fairer budget and a related tax law system, as opposed to the practice of the Orbán government so far. We have done this from the point of view because it is quite clear from the various statistics that the Orbán government is on the wrong track, developing or developing the country's economy and society in a direction which is contrary to the interests of the majority of the country. This economic policy supports the few at the expense of the majority. It supports the few, since it has already introduced a tax law in 2010 - and, despite all criticism, it remains unchanged to this tax law - which drastically increased the low-income tax instead of the previous tax exemption. While they are talking about tax cuts, the sad truth is that the minimum wage, which was not yet subject to personal income tax at the beginning of Viktor Orbán's administration, must now be taxed by 16 percent as a result of this governance. The salary of the lowest earners has been increased from zero to 16%. On the other hand, or in return for this, the taxes on the best earners have been drastically reduced. As a result, there has been a situation in which between 10 and 20 percent of the country enjoys the overall benefits of this economic policy, between 80 and 90 percent of the country and between 80 and 90 percent of workers suffer this economic policy. As a result, as many studies have shown, poverty is rapidly spreading in the country. It is rapidly spreading not only in the sense that there are more and more poor people in Hungary, and this process is accelerating, but also in the sense that those living in poverty are becoming increasingly hopeless. So poverty is deepening, and unfortunately the number of the poor is increasing. In fact, we have to face a new phenomenon such as so-called employee poverty, which means that those who have a job income cannot survive in the country if they earn little and suffer the high tax imposed on them by Fidesz. Today, the net amount of the official minimum wage in Hungary is less than the minimum income required for a family. This is quite simply intolerable. The MSZP's position is that to hit the least well-earned, the least-seekers with a 15% tax rate is a huge mistake, and even more than a mistake, it is a sin. The MSZP's proposals therefore tried primarily to help with this package of problems. In contrast to Fidesz's practice, we in our amendments made a substantive proposal to increase social support. It is worth proposing, since family support, family allowance and other family allowances have been unchanged for many years, and have not received any increase, while the government is constantly expanding the various benefits of well-paid people. This exercise had to be changed. The sad consequence of this governance is that education policy, as well as the educational area, is interlocked, and what is happening in health care today is quite simply unsustainable. It is simply untenable; if anyone goes to hospital, they can feel the deterioration of the quality of this hospital care, the terrible situation that patients are in an increasingly vulnerable situation, they have to wait for an ever longer waiting list to finally get their treatment; the equipment is getting worse. [[12.40]] The other side of this sad fact is that the wages of health care workers are inexorably weak. One of the serious consequences of this is that more and more derelicts, nurses, and doctors leave the profession and even leave the country. The MSZP also believes that more money should be spent on education, and so our amendments aimed at this. And, of course, we wish the pedagogical society to develop wages, and our amendments to the coverage required for this were included. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, a few words on the amendments tabled to the tax laws, since the Secretary of State also spoke about the tax laws, some unsearched sentences to this effect. In my introduction, I pointed out that Hungary now has an intolerable tax system, and this tax system has increased the tax on low-income earners compared to the previous one, while reducing the tax on the best earners. That's what we want to change. Our proposals are intended to ensure that the less people earn, the less tax they have to pay, so we want to introduce 5% and 10 percent lower rates, especially for the benefit of the minimum wage and average workers and small entrepreneurs, compared to the current 16%. We want to take decisive steps to eliminate the injustice that the net minimum wage is below the official minimum wage as net wages rise. Dear House, The MSZP faction calls on the majority of Members to support these amendments. The support for these amendments would be one: a fairer economic policy in Hungary, which is more supportive of economic growth through increased consumption. We ask your support for this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-34	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2015-06-15-35	Mr President, Dear House, When we are preparing to conclude a kind of budget discussion, we should point out that, compared to previous years, there has been no serious systemic change, even if we do not ignore symptomatic refinements and discounts, and, where appropriate, say, a 1% reduction in personal income tax can only be spoken in the voice of the aid, yet it would be worth examining, in whole and at systemic level, what the government says is a tax reduction budget. On the other hand, we see that next year's central budget revenue, about one third of the expectations, comes from VAT payments, largely from taxes linked to other consumptions, and together these, including excise duty, registration tax, telecommunications tax, transaction tax, and insurance tax, together with the rest of the HUF 4612 billion, amount to the expectations arising from consumption-type taxes. However, the financial resources coming from this show a total of 215 billion more expectations next year than in the previous year. So, in one year, the government intends to collect HUF 215 billion more of these types of taxes from the population than before, but at the same time - for some inexplicable reason - it calls this the budget for the tax reduction. It is possible to hold professional debates - and I must say - on the fact that, where appropriate, the number of contributors is broadening, the economy is spinning a little bit more, so it generates more VAT payments, but at the same time, at systemic level, it is said that at the same time society will enjoy a systemic, wide-ranging tax reduction, at least it seems demagogue. This is the opposite of the amazing situation that is affecting entrepreneurs; but we could also talk about minimum wage workers. For example, take a HUF 105,000 gross wage, then we can see that the net amount of that is less than two thirds. And we also see that if you want to take 68 775 HUF home at the minimum wage, your employer will also have to pay the state more than 66 thousand HUF. The employer's total cost is therefore double what his employee receives. In such a medium, in addition to the introduction by the Orbán governments of well over 40 new tax types or types of tax increases since 2010, it is at least cynical to talk about the budget for tax reductions. We could also list the exotic types of tax, we have already done these, let us not talk about it anymore, but it is clear that at systemic level, the ease of life of the population cannot be found. Similarly, with regard to the reduction plan I mentioned in personal income tax, we can see that while last year the government wanted to collect 1640 billion from personal income tax, in the following year it was already 1658 billion. So, again, we're seeing an increase, a desire to take more from people in this way than before. And even with the 1% discount, that's true. It can be said that the number of contributors is increasing, but this is not supported by economic numbers, expectations and indicators, not even by the indicators in your fairy tale. So it is simply not appropriate at the level of numbers that we are talking about a budget for tax reductions. We must also stress that in Hungary, in order to be able to recover from this very difficult situation, we need to resolve a threefold squeeze and to be able to respond to the need to act effectively on the one hand against the forces that besieged Hungary from the outside, immigration and refugee invasion. At the same time, the improved amendment in this respect, which would strengthen the individual image of the border guard, and would provide this organisation within the police, but with very serious additional resources, was simply rejected by the Fidesz-KDNP and continues to maintain a situation where, when we look around Hungary, the effects of the refugee flood are increasingly visible and increasingly disturbing, our borders are still essentially defenceless. In the area of Astotthalom, at least anyone who wants to walk through it can't disprove it, not even because it is very rarely or never on the ground. It is also necessary to see that another direction of the triple squeeze is clearly derived from the Hungarian emigration, and we will be able to show the amazing costs of the Hungarian emigration in every budget, but the pain that broken families, forced refugees from abroad, cannot be quantified, and we do not want it, but this system must at least be understood in spirit, because without it, it is not possible to draw a successful Hungarian economic career. The government, on the other hand, is pretending that this problem does not exist. In fact, I go further, including a lot of foreign Hungarian jobs in employment statistics, including many children born outside our current borders. And I am not referring to one in four Hungarian children who are born in a part of a broken country, but to statistics they are also distorting the Hungarian children born in Western Europe, for whom we are just as happy and without any misunderstanding, but to sell this at home as the winning strategy of the Orbán government, the result of their family support, at least it is counterproductive. We must say that, in addition to the two constraints, there is a third, the result of everything, which is also a consequence, and this is the result of the Hungarian population loss. And here you can see, let us not discuss the attempts to take action on the Fidesz-KDNP family support measures, the fact that, where appropriate, it leaves more money with families, but it is also visible and well-known that, in addition to these benefits, they could only achieve an improvement within the margin of error in the number of living births. We are now experiencing a 15-percent deterioration in terms of deaths, which is a disaster, and which is true even if the base data were relatively positive, and a flu epidemic has also deteriorated on these data. However, we do not live in the Middle Ages, so in the third millennium such a deterioration should not be caused by a flu epidemic, but by fair health conditions and a fair family support system, at least to enable those who want to have children in difficult circumstances to do so in Hungary, who wish to survive in difficult circumstances, to have all the help that Hungarian health can give. [[12.50]] But we also need to see that one of the origins of the emigration spiral is the sense of inaccessible home, which is what it is. For this reason, for years - not only yours, all previous governments - the government has been indebted to a comprehensive home creation strategy and state-supported housing programme, which the Fidesz-KDNP has not achieved in five years by almost two-thirds majority. We are thinking of a program where Hungarian contractors would provide the possibility of renting at a very depressed price compared to market prices for young Hungarians, who now see that they can't force themselves out of their average salary according to the KSH in 10, 15 or even 20 years. Trust us, there are tens of thousands of people out of the country for this alone. They could be kept at home with a decent home creation programme, many could be called home, life opportunities, prospects and visions could be provided for the multitude of Hungarians, but at the moment we see that the government's certificate for this triple squeeze is indeed below two, while the refugees whose treatment is beyond their control are already camped in Jászai Square and Margaret Island. These people arrive on an annual basis, if any, compared to the total number of Hungarian children born. And these are sobering statistics, that there are years when more refugees can arrive in the country than all Hungarian children are born here. That is why we say that, in addition to stopping the emigration spiral and tidying up population conditions, the government should focus on protecting Hungary's borders, as well as on Hungarian citizens. On the other hand, we see in your draft budget that the Immigration and Nationality Office has more than HUF 300 million less than in the previous period. On this basis, everyone should decide whether the government really wants to act, or whether it is engaged in a self-serving rhetorical war, where, unfortunately, the Hungarian families were trapped in the last place. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-36	Dear Parliament, It is now taking place in a five-minute time frame, the voice of the voice invited by the nationality committee. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it.
u2015-06-15-37	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, In my previous comments on the Central Budget Laws 2015 and 2016, I have already explained in detail that in almost all areas of Hungary's nationalities, the problem was not only that the amount of support had not increased for 8, 10, 14 years, but that there was at least such a serious problem that they were deeply underfunded even when they started. In this difficult situation - using the new opportunities offered by the mandate of advocate - we reached a consensus-based 2 billion HUF amendment package at the 2015 central budget, which was unanimously adopted by the Hungarian Parliament. This was a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift, a milestone in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics. For this reason, in January 2015 we evaluated the experience of preparing, coordinating and deciding the 2015 budget with spokespersons and national presidents, and we started preparing and compiling the 2016 budget needs. Thus, the introduction of the adoption of the 2016 Central Budget Act for the spring period was, of course, unexpected, but not unprepared. Within a short period of two weeks, we finalised our 2016 nationality budget needs, and with the experience of 2014 negotiations could be significantly accelerated and even more effective. All these factors together led to the fact that the 2016 central budget bill contains another significant increase of HUF 2 billion of 63.4 million in total to the nationalities living in Hungary. In addition to the fact and extent of the increase, I also find it indicative that the government has already included national needs in its own bill and has submitted them to Parliament. We thank the government and the pro-government factions for this. In the same way, I think it is important to say that the increase in subsidies has, of course, already been agreed in advance with all opposition parliamentary groups and with independent representatives, who have also given their unanimous support to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. We thank the opposition factions and all independent representatives for this. The budgetary increases in 2016 basically concern three major areas of nationality. On the one hand, the threefold increase in the national minority civil application framework, the two new frameworks created to support the operation of national theatres and the small number of national minority public education institutions represent a total increase of HUF 820 million. The second significant increase in support is the 100 percent increase in the overall operating support of local ethnic authorities by HUF 784.2 million. Thirdly, the framework of national minority institutions maintained by national authorities for renovation and tendering in 2015 will be doubled, i.e. HUF 882,4 million. These extremely joyful changes, of course, do not mean that, after decades of demise, all ethnic problems have been solved in a single blow. We already know that the primary priority of the 2017 Finance Act will be to improve the overall situation of ethnic public education institutions and ethnic education. In addition to all these tasks, I believe that the moment has finally come when all existing problems, tasks and tensions must be thanked without reservation. In the last six months, the support of nationalities living in Hungary for less than HUF 4 billion was raised to more than HUF 8 billion by the 2015 and 2016 central government laws. Without exaggeration, this is a positive change that has not been seen in Hungarian politics in relation to nationalities living in Hungary in the last hundred years. Thank you very much. Thank you for listening. Danke schön! Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2015-06-15-38	I'll ask if any of the factions want to comment in the remaining timeframe. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs.
u2015-06-15-39	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, However, one thing we need to convince each other about, which we may not really need to convince you is that 2016 will really be about tax cuts. A lot has been said about this budget, and I have said it many times, but one thing we can say for sure: this budget can be planned, predictable, and what is very important, can be observed, because in the last three years we have proved that the budget numbers are in place, and compared to the last period that I have spent here in Parliament, the least time the mid-term amending of the budget has happened. We did this last year, for example, with an election year, and yet we followed it, we got out of the overdeficit procedure, and Hungary started to stand on firm ground. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] One of the important elements of this next year is the reduction of personal income tax to 15 percent, which will increase the overall salary of around 4 million people, and it will remain in the order of 120 billion forints for families. Another goal - of course this has also been said several times - is that personal income tax should be one-digit, so we are working, and I hope everyone understands. Here, I would like to say the answer to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's previous sentences that you have already noticed several times, but you still do not understand that the Hungarian tax system has shifted from income tax to consumption-type taxation. Thus, the figures that Daniel Z. Carpathian said are perfectly true, and in a country where people's salaries are increasing, the personal income tax paid must also be increased, as this is in proportion to this matter. [[13.00]] Next year, we will reduce the VAT on pork to 5%, leaving around HUF 25 billion in consumers' pockets. Family tax relief for families with two children leaves more than 350 thousand families, with an average income of 114 thousand forints and 85 thousand forints for the family budget for the family. This will be approximately 9,500 HUF per month and 7,100 HUF per month respectively. In 2016, the current rate will increase from 10 thousand to 12 500 HUF, and in the following year this discount will increase to the same extent. The children's feeding programme will continue so that no one in Hungary suffers from a shortage of children. Employment will continue to expand, public employment will be extended. We hope that EU funds will be available next year, 60% of which will certainly be spent on economic development and, together, on job creation. The government also guarantees the real value and value of pensions; next year, not only government, but several analysts are forecasting 2.5 percent GDP growth and 2 percent deficit, 73.3 percent government debt by the end of the year in the part already adopted with amendments. Further reduction of the burden on families and workers will help the Hungarian economy along with next year's tax law and budget. Families with 110,000 lowest incomes and three or more children have practically their gross earnings in their pockets. In 2016, the public sector's wage increase programme will continue, and there will be again a teacher's wage increase, which will extend to higher education nursery educators and adoption consultants. Next year, the wage arrangements for armed and law enforcement workers and nurses and doctors will continue, and the government-official career program will be launched. The government also wants to support the work of doctors providing basic health services by amending the law on local business tax to allow local authorities to grant discounts and exemptions to general practitioners, which will leave them with about 1.5 billion forints per year. This affects some 6300 general practitioners, and the amount of the discount is up to HUF 200,000 per year. Our aim is for Hungarian workers to pay Europe's lowest personal income tax. We've talked about this. We are introducing a growth tax credit in corporate taxation. Enterprises that increase their pre-tax profit five times from one year to the next may postpone the payment of the tax, leaving them with more resources to expand their activities. I think, fellow Members, on the basis of all this, we can safely say that this budget is a good budget, although it will be completed in the middle of the summer, its implementation will start in 2016, but it will provide sure foundations for Hungarian growth to be permanent and Hungarian people to prosper. On this basis, I ask you to vote in favour of the 2016 budget. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-06-15-41	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of Jobbik tried to make it seem that the government does not support the school programme sufficiently, and in particular the opposition-led cities and their districts do not receive it. Of course, as usual, it's not true. Indeed, the government supports the settlements, for example, in the town of Törökszentmiklós a school is being built, and the children living there and living in the area will be able to learn swimming here. This is a very important program. I think that if the first round of this programme ends, in which more than 20 settlements are involved, we will see how we can continue this, what opportunities there are. The students living in the area of Törökszentmiklós, their parents and, of course, the school's employees, are very happy about this school. So I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the budget just because we are also taking a step forward with this school programme so that all Hungarian children can learn to swim even in primary school. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, you have one minute and 15 seconds.
u2015-06-15-43	Mr. President. I am taking advantage of this one minute and 15 seconds because I would like to see a trace of the amendment package that we have tabled in connection with the financing of health care in this debate as well. We have tabled this financing proposal because, as has already been said in my comments before the agenda, we consider it important to make significant transfers to health care. When this package is part of a significant wage development in health care, an increasing hospital funding, we want to indicate that the budget contains resources that can be improved in an important and strategic area if we redeploy. Since I do not see a realistic chance of adopting this amending package in the budget, I would nevertheless like to note that the road remains open, all expenditure on health can be improved in the next phase of the budget. In the hope of this, I made my contribution and, of course, for the sake of the record. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-15-44	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. The next speaker is Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-06-15-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In view of the fact that I have summarised the proposals of the LMP in the minority opinion, I did not wish to comment now, but the way in which my fellow Member Szűcs summarized his proposals on the government's budget makes me want to comment on some issues. My colleague Szűcs summarized that this is the year of tax reduction, and how good it will be for people, and that 1 percent personal income tax reduction leaves 120 billion forints for people. I think we should go further than that and look at the details. Overall, it is a reduction of HUF 120 billion, but if you look at who will benefit from this, you cannot say that it will reach people who earn little, who live under the minimum living. So, overall, this reduction of 1 percent will not reduce the gap between the ever - shrinking richer and the growing poor. In order not to do so, the government would have to change its social and economic policy. You must acknowledge what we have said several times now in the debates about how the world is breaking apart, and this huge gap and poverty are, in effect, the barrier to development and economic development. So we think it's time for Fidesz to override its social and economic policies and break up with the concept of one-key personal income tax. My fellow Member Szűcs also highlighted how much more there will be for families and how much tax relief for two children will mean for families. But he forgot to mention that since 2008, the family allowance and the child's amount have not increased. So, if we looked at this overall, we would have had to touch it now to increase the family allowance. It's a syak reduction, isn't it, pork means its VAT... but they've lost the courage to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%, that's one half of it. The other half is that in virtually those sectors, social sector, health care, education will remain at the same level as last year. [[13.10]] Practically exsanguinated sectors cannot develop human resources in Hungary, and sooner or later the government will have to face the fact that not one, but a number of demonstrations and demonstrations will take place in the coming period, as we have seen in recent years with social and health workers. Overall, we believe that the government cannot be proud of this budget at all. This budget concretes practically the social and economic policy that has been done so far, i.e. it will condemn society to the fact that the fragmentation will continue to grow in the country. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Márius Révész asked to speak for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-06-15-47	Thank you very much. Dear Elizabeth Schmuck, Here in Parliament, it is constantly said that society is being divided. The problem is that statistics appear that measure this. Let me recommend Eurostat statistics to your attention. A comparison was made with OECD countries. In OECD countries, the social differences between the highest and lowest tenths are 9.6 times, while in Hungary, the last year, this has decreased significantly, thanks to government policy, there is a 7.2-fold multiplier between the poorest and the richest tenths in Hungary. It's an international statistic, and the only reason I'm recommending it to you is because you keep making statements that don't, by the way, correspond to reality. Similarly, it does not correspond to the reality it claims or unfolds all the details of reality when it talks about family support and family preferences. Because it is true that the family allowance has not increased, it is conscious, because we want to move on to work-related subsidies, and if you look at what has been going on in the last five years thanks to tax incentives and in many other areas, how much budget has gone towards families, then we can say that in one government cycle, family support has not increased to such an extent as it has been due to our policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the floor in the remaining timeframes from the factions. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate within the remaining four and a half minutes.
u2015-06-15-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say a few thoughts on the amendments tabled by the opposition. The amendments made by the Jobbik Group would have led to a total deficit increase of HUF 776.4 billion for the 2016 central budget, for example, a complete abolition of the extraordinary government measure, but several other appropriations would have been reduced and tax revenues would have been reduced by HUF 187.5 billion. So, by my count, they'd have planned a two-percent deficit. This ratio is even higher than the other opposition proposals. It also shows that they didn't really consider the amendments responsibly either, because if they had thought about it, it would have been at least fitting that the budget deficit would not have increased, the debt would not have increased. However, none of the opposition parties could follow this government logic. For example, LMP would have generated a deficit increase of HUF 1479 billion if all their amendments had been accepted. This would mean an increase in debt, a tax increase for people; the government could not support it. The MSZP would have damaged the balance of public finances by HUF 1545.9 billion if all their amendments had been accepted. He would have deleted more appropriations from the budget and increased tax revenues by more than HUF 1000 billion, and his amendments were also characterised by tax increases and debt increases. He could not accept the government's logic and priority of economic development, job creation, debt reduction, support for families, and the government was obviously unable to support it. If we had accepted the amendments made by the MSZP, we would have been able to accept the budget with more than 5% deficit, which is totally unacceptable in the European Union. In total, opposition representatives would have broken the central budget balance by more than HUF 4,000 billion, which is obviously unacceptable to the government. However, it supports the Government's comprehensive amendment to the Committee on Budgets, which highlights the bank tax refund for increasing lending activity and HUF 12 billion in additional subsidies to the national economy. More support will be made from these appropriations for capacity-enhancing capacity-generating investments, thereby increasing productivity and the number of jobs. Several organisations are supported by the summarised amendment, such as the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, the Batthyány Lajos Foundation, but 500 million more will be available under the Law on War Care for a public foundation to increase the benefits of war orphans. The renovation of several state institutions is supported by the renovation of the government, the Buda Vigadó, the National University of Public Service, Ludovika Campus, or the reconstruction of the Népföld College in Lakitelek. Dear Parliament, I believe that the budget will continue to ensure the original objective after the adoption of the amending proposals, that the deficit of 2 percent of GDP will not exceed what has been achieved, and that the budget will be met. Finally, I would like to thank all the political groups and Members of Parliament for their participation in the debate and for the proposed amendment. The government warmly recommends that the Parliament vote on the amendments in the course of tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision on the summary amendment proposal is expected to take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Now, at 1:17 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. What happened to the forestry directorates? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-06-15-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, During May, new tasks were added to the government offices, and in this connection the previously ten-placed forestry directorates were also terminated in their old form and were classified as government offices. On the old boards, the directors were heads of department and independent departments operated under them, managed forest planning by a separate department, and the administration department was an independent department, which supervised one of Europe's strictest forest laws. Colleagues have indicated very serious operational problems, which is why I would like to ask the following questions. Is it true that ten independent boards in the country have become ten agricultural and forestry departments? The directorates were basically based on forest areas, and the directors were division heads, as I said before. The independent departments were run by department heads. Is it true that the heads of departments have been declassified as head of department, that the office of head of department has been revoked? Is it true that this is particularly a serious loss of income for young class leaders? Is it true that their wages decreased by up to 40 percent per month? Is it true that in this situation there is much more work for which lower wages are paid? Is it true that most of the profession would flee from these jobs? The truth is that it is obvious that if this is true, then this escape is a real problem, there is only one thing: there is no place to go, because with the current forest training a very good system has been developed in Hungary. [[13.20]] Therefore, young people so liberated in private forests or lose their faith do not have much of an opportunity, so I ask Mr. Secretary of State [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Whether it was normal to destroy this system that had worked well for decades. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-52	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-06-15-53	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm sad that the congressman is so uninformed, and he's talking about destroying the state forestry system. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't tell me that.]] While the truth is completely different than that. All Members who work in this House know, hopefully, that, as of 1 April 2015, significant changes have occurred in the territorial administration, since we voted in favour of the Act VIII of 2015. and Article VI thereof. Act on the transformation of the regional administration system. Honourable Congressman, The truth is that the state forestry authorities have been in the county government offices since 1 January 2011, so not only from now on. It is true that they were also affected by the recent organizational transformation, but the fact that they were now being placed under the government offices is a testament to complete indiscretion. Once again, since 1 January 2011, they have belonged to the government offices. There have been similar changes to the administration system at the time of your State Secretaryship, when these tasks were carried out in the framework of the former Agricultural Administration Office, such as forestry, plant and soil protection, animal health [[Zoltán Gőgös: with independent directorship!]] and agricultural tasks, by the way, for a much lower salary, honourable Member. The truth is that the government has clearly set itself a goal of reducing the number of leaders. I do not think that the reduction of the state apparatus, or, more precisely, the reduction of the number of staff, would not be in the common interest of all of us, and also the reduction of management salaries, the number of managers. Of course, this did not damage the area. Before 1 April 2015, 268 people worked in this area, so there is no mention of fluctuations here, honourable Member. In fact, I must inform you that, prior to integration on 1 April 2015, 266 people worked on forestry boards at government offices on the basis of data reports. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They have a total salary of HUF 87 billion, which has now gone up to HUF 90 billion, so their salary has even increased, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Pride: That's not true! L. Simon László: It's true! Zoltán Gőgös: There is no connection between wages and personal wages. Zoltán Lukács: There is a difference between wages and wages paid.]]
u2015-06-15-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative and group leader of Jobbik wants to ask the Minister for National Development: [[For the continuous intervention of Zoltán Gőgös:]] - and it's not Gábor Vona's, it's Gábor Vona's. That's the word.
u2015-06-15-55	Did I get the floor?
u2015-06-15-56	Yeah.
u2015-06-15-57	Dear Parliament, We all know that one of the most important aspects of the development of the economy is the development of infrastructure, the state of the roads. Hungary is in a very diverse situation from this point of view, there are particularly good areas, in Western terms, in good condition, there are less good areas and there are particularly bad areas in a tragic state. The latter category includes the area affected by roads 23 and 25, which also affects three counties with difficult problems, the road parts of the counties of Nógrád, Heves and Borsod are connected by the section from Bátonyteranya to Pétervásara, Ozd to Putnok. I'm sure you're aware that several of the dozens of mayors of the area have formed a technical alliance to change this unblessed state and to act together, in a political sense, given the terrible bad situation, economic problems, emigration, unemployment in this part of the country. If this initiative of the mayors fails, the people living there intend not to achieve this road development, unfortunately it can be covered that the region will be exposed to almost permanent detachment. Moreover, it is not only economic catching-up that makes this urgent, but also a number of other aspects, so let me highlight one aspect from two better-run settlements. According to the decision of the previous cycle, Recsen, on the territory of the former camp, is expected to be a mass of class excursions, which can be approached either through the Mátra, or through another tragic road, or from this direction; I think you too feel that it is our duty to reduce the risk of accidents. The other is Ozd, where we hope to launch an important prison investment, on the other hand, the National Digital Archive of 2.5 billion will open its doors from autumn. One word, like a hundred, 23 on the 25 roads, the people there are asking the government to review last autumn's decision and to create the possibilities for four lane fast-track development as soon as possible. I ask you if you wish to consider the clear legitimate and life-saving request of those living there. I look forward to your substantive response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-58	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2015-06-15-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Thank you so much for asking, and I'd say right away, there's a way out. There is a way out, because the government of Hungary is building roads 23 and 25, on 10 January the government decision that makes this certain appeared in the Hungarian Gazette. So we're gonna build a two-track expressway twice, that's for sure. But it is important to say that there is also a way out because the representatives there - whether I say Borsod or Nógrád or other counties -, András Tállai, Gábor Riz, Zsolt Becsó, László Horváth - always keep on the agenda the important investments that are really necessary for the region to catch up and strengthen. It is an extremely important journey, so the government decided to support the implementation of the two sections from the domestic budget. It's four sections, but it's actually the 23rd, 25th. It is very important that we count on everyone's support, and we would have expected the support of Jobbik last week, because the vote on 9 June was about helping in some way to accelerate unprepared investments. We have asked the parliamentary parties to support the adoption of the acceleration package, which will help people to get access to road connections sooner, catch up faster and make the Oz area more competitive. Pétervása, Ozd, Bátonyterénye, anyone who lives there as a human living in the region knows exactly how much it is necessary to improve the roads. You did not support it, you did not vote in favour of this fantastic bill, I think it was of great importance, and we also missed the support of the other parliamentary parties, because they said instead that you do not want to implement it, you only support it in words. Seems like it right now, anyway. [[Dóra Dúró: Archaeologists also missed the support.]] it seems now that they are only supporting in words the construction of sections of the road between the Ozd-Bátony tere, because if they had not, they would have voted for it, it would not have been difficult. Regardless, Hungary's government is building roads 23 and 25 twice as two lane expressway. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was about archaeologists.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they not represent the interests of Hungarian women in Brussels? Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-06-15-61	Dear Secretary of State, The government did not boast that it was one of the ten Member States at EU level that prevented the adoption of a proposal to strengthen the protection of parental women. The amendment of Directive 92 on the protection of pregnant women with child-beds and breastfeeding at work was initiated by the Commission in 2008 and adopted by Parliament in 2010 with some significant amendments. 20 weeks of full pay maternity leave was proposed and paid paternity leave of 2 weeks would have been strengthened, as well as the employment rights and health protection of mothers and nursing mothers at work. For the fifth year, the European Council has blocked the process by not making a decision, and Hungary is one of the countries that is fighting to get the proposal off the agenda for good. The official Hungarian justification is that the definition of the benefit for maternity leave should remain the responsibility of the Member States. The problem with this justification is that this directive already exists, i.e. it is already no longer a Member State's competence, and more precisely Member States are bound by minimum standards at EU level. Rather, the Hungarian government's position in principle is that they do not want to pay 100 percent of the price to the parent women, compared to the current 70 percent. The amended Directive would have given stronger protection to families with small children during the period of pregnancy, breastfeeding, maternity leave. Extra spending would not have been an unbearable burden for Hungary, it would have cost HUF 16 billion a year, but it would have provided greater financial security for families with small children. The paid two-week paternity leave would have strengthened the role of fathers in raising children. However, the government, which considers itself family-friendly, said no to all of this, even though this would have had a positive effect on childbearing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask the Secretary of State why they do not represent the interests of Hungarian women in Brussels. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-15-62	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2015-06-15-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I do not know where this topic has come from, but I am glad that it has come out, because there is an opportunity to correct some of the inaccuracies that the Member mentioned. So let me get this straight. On the one hand, of course, we represent and represent the interests of Hungarian women both in Brussels and in Budapest in the future. [[13.30]] This is an amendment to a 1992 directive proposed by the Commission in 2008. In '08. Meanwhile, Hungary also had a Presidency of the European Union, we were the country that tried to push this proposal forward as a Presidency. It failed, as most Member States block this proposal. Not Hungary, most of the Member States. It is 2015, Congresswoman, since 2008 we have not been able to make any progress on this issue in Europe. There are Member States, the Commission, the European Parliament, and the Commission's representatives do not know what they themselves want to do with this draft directive. Moreover, the European Parliament is equally uncertain in this regard, and the majority of Member States do not support the adoption of this proposal in this form. In the last substantive dialogue - I was personally present myself - there were four EU Member States that argued that this debate should be continued in this way. There are moments, dear Congresswoman, when, after 8 years of infertile debate, we can say that we should put this aside, start a new story with a clean slate; and it is very harmful for you to state this as if we were not representing the interests of Hungarian women either in Brussels or in Budapest. As far as the content is concerned, the family support system in Hungary is much more flexible than in the majority of EU Member States, there is more than average maternity leave; and what is 70 percent is actually 90 percent, since there is only a personal income tax payment after the family, i.e. after the first six months of support. So this is not true either; and otherwise paternity leave is not included in this proposal. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] So we will continue to represent the interests of Hungarian women everywhere in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-64	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bene Ildikó, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: how does it affect the city of Szolnok to participate in the programme of modern cities? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Minister János Lázár, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-06-15-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government started its work, perhaps one of the most important tasks was to save the country from economic collapse. The second outstanding task was for the country to stand on its own two feet. We can see data on both government debt and budget numbers and other economic growth. Overall, therefore, we can say that we are on the right track. In relation to the above, the government has made a decision and has announced the programme "Modern Cities" which includes the series of contracts concluded with 23 cities with county rights. This contract is based on the general economic development of the country. In Szolnok and the surrounding settlements, we are pleased to see and know that the government, together with the local governments, is doing everything in its power to bring our county into the country's economic cycle. In addition to rapid rail developments, however, it is a decades-old wish for the inhabitants of the region to reach the capital and the eastern parts with four lanes. The direct link between Szolnok and the region with Budapest can bring huge economic development, while the working capital is happy to be located next to the motorways. The favourable location of Szolnok would be even more significant, since the capital would be available safely in a short time. We need to develop our road network not only and only to overcome the competitive disadvantage, we have to face unfortunate accident statistics and huge transit traffic every day on Highway 4. Dear Secretary of State, Please provide an answer as to how the city of Szolnok is affected by the participation in the programme of modern cities, and confirm that we can trust that the eastern part will also be available with a safe four-track road. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-06-15-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you very much for asking. I'm glad you're so fond of your constituency, your narrower country. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have been able to talk about this several times in this House, the Prime Minister will visit our county-righted cities and conclude a contract with the city leaders, and every agreement will result in a government decision in the Hungarian Gazette. Of course, the Hungarian government does not distinguish between cities in Central Hungary, Western Hungary or East Hungary, so it is important for the Hungarian government, for all of us, for all pro-governments, let's say Sopron, Székesfehérvár or Szolnok or Debrecen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that, at the hearing on 3 June, an important agreement was reached between Prime Minister and Mr Mayor, in which the fundamental points concerning the life of the city were indeed fixed. It was agreed to connect Budapest and Szolnok, as you requested, by 2019 at the latest, with a four-track road, namely the trail of Highway 4, state resources and simplified technical content, which is particularly important for the construction of a new bridge. We know that the city currently has a two-track southern bypass, and we really need to be able to get traffic out of the city to a greater extent. This is why a two-track northern bypass road will be built, so that the government and the city will set up a task force together. The Szolnok people want to create a new 300-hectare industrial park, the area will be bought by the government for the city. I think it is important that the HUF 529 million promised for the development of the MÁV Sports Camp on Véső út, and what is particularly important to me, as I have often been invited there to the development of the Szolnok Artists' Camp. [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] We awarded HUF 1 billion and HUF 3 billion to the Tiszaligeti beach bath. Please accept my reply.
u2015-06-15-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Varju, an independent congressman, wishes to ask the Attorney General a question, who did Csaba Tarsoly call in the week before Quaestor's bankruptcy? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2015-06-15-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, In the press he saw the fact that Csaba Tarsoly Quaestor led the list of bribes he gave. According to the news media, police and government sources have confirmed the existence of the Tarsoly list. That means they're listed, there's those Fidesz politicians and other politicians, the names of those who could get money in exchange for stealing 150 billion forints. We've already asked you to release the Tarsoly list, but in this case, it's still quiet, just like it's all been. According to the Democratic Coalition, even as a result of a possibly undercover investigation, even the prosecution cannot deny that Csaba Tarsoly called and sent messages in this case the days before the announcement of your Quaestor. This happened by accident or, of course, at the same time as saving public funds, which Mr Orbán later acknowledged. I'll ask the Attorney General when the D.A. wants to release Csaba Tarsoly's phone records, a message from a week before the Quaestor's self-destructive report. When does the D.A. intend to disclose the names of politicians who are directly or indirectly included in the list of bribes, for example through family members? And finally, how much does your family, personal relationship and addiction affect you together with the Hungarian National Bank of Financial Supervision? I am honored to thank you for your reply.
u2015-06-15-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2015-06-15-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Since 11 March 2015, an investigation has been carried out against Csaba Tarsoly and his associates for a particularly high level of fraud and other crimes. Three searches were carried out at different locations following the order of the investigation. They've seized a lot of data and evidence, partly digitized. It is typical of the mass of the data that I had to arrange separately for the purchase of a software so that this data could be processed. Processing is ongoing. What I can tell you is that a list of bribes or bribes has not been found so far. Of course, a mobile phone was also seized, the data content of Csaba Tarsoly's mobile phone is also under investigation. However, the Criminal Procedure Act does not allow the public to be fully informed if this is contrary to the interests of the investigation. [[13.40]] Right now, we're still in the process of investigation, and we're all hoping that the investigation will be successful, and once the investigation is completed, we'll be able to present to the public all relevant data that can be made public by law. And I couldn't interpret your last question. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks:]] Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-72	Thank you, Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: what will be the net amount of the minimum wage next year, i.e. in 2016? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-06-15-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is formulated because, in general, budgets are adopted in a given country while people know what kind of benefits they can expect in the year for which a budget is adopted. The minimum wage appears in this way, because unfortunately, there are many people in Hungary who earn minimum wages, and if we go a little further, we see that there are a lot of people under the minimum of living, more than half of the people working - this is reflected in the personal income tax return - are earning below the minimum of living. I understand that there are institutionalised systems, let us say, the National Economic and Social Council, and many other things that need to be consulted on these issues, but at a time when they are talking about the budget, fellow Members, we should consult in parallel and not leave it at some point by the end of the year or by the beginning of next year, and there is uncertainty about how their expected wages will develop. There is a very large difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage today in Hungary, the net value of the minimum wage and the value of the purchase has been reduced over the last five years, despite the fact that for five years the minimum wage has increased, the minimum wage has increased; the gross weight has increased, after which the employer and employees have paid extra contributions. In fact, I would like to ask for an answer, and I would like to make it clear for millions of people that the minimum wage is net - the net! - whether the value of the purchasing power increases in the coming year, whether it will reach the minimum of living, the minimum of living per capita. And if the Secretary of State says that he does not, we must discuss this with others, employers and employees, I would also like to add that I am not curious about the intention of the government. Answer this, Mr Secretary: is the government's intention that the minimum wage net will reach and exceed the minimum wage? That's what I'm asking for, an exact answer. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-06-15-75	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, the congressman remembers, although his question is a little shaky in my belief that the government never unilaterally sets the minimum wage, but in consultation with social partners, employers and employees [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Although legislation does give the government the opportunity to do so (Nándor Gúr intervenes) But we have always managed to achieve this on a consensus basis in recent years, since 2010. I would like to point out that employers at this forum have rightly, in our opinion, rightly indicated that although the budget will indeed be adopted, the economic impact that will affect such a serious decision, how much the minimum wage will be in 2016 in Hungary, is worth following up on the actual real processes. It is therefore proposed that we return to this problem not now, after the end of the budgetary negotiations, but in the autumn. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] And we were partners in that. But I have good news, Congressman, that one thing we can record is that the net amount will increase by at least 1,53% (Nándor Gúr intervenes). If Parliament accepts the government's proposal for a 1 percentage point reduction in personal income tax and the 1.6 percent inflation forecast for next year, it will therefore be ensured without increasing the gross amount of the minimum wage. The social partners, on the other hand, strive to increase the purchasing value of the minimum wage in the next period (Nándor Gúr intervenes). So this means that not only in net terms, but also in purchasing power, as it grew last year, and before that, continuously. (Nándor Gúr interrupts.) So, honourable Member, I would like to reassure you [[Nándor Gúr: Don't comfort me.]] that the Hungarian Government will continue the policy that has been successfully implemented over the past five years in relation to the minimum wage. [[Nándor Gúr: That shameful one?!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: When will the promise become a reality? Or when will the Tapolcans get it back, which is theirs, when will the promised active beds be returned? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2015-06-15-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In July 2012, in the Tapolca hospital, active inpatients ceased, and the Tapolca hospital became one of the restructuring hospitals, despite the dissatisfaction of the population. The main aspects, as we observed in government communication, were economic aspects. If we look at the economic aspects, we have to mention the fact that after the restructuring, the debt of Tapolca Hospital reached HUF 100 million, out of which 70 million hit two companies in the city. At the same time, the burden of his lips increased and his debt reached a difficult stage. Meanwhile, the waiting list was extended at this institution. The increased burdens of his lips hospital also confirm the legitimate needs of the population, which have been said in the press or in the public forum for more than two years. In April 2015, the partial restoration of active medical beds was announced at the press conference of State Secretary Gábor Zombor. According to the Secretary of State, rehabilitation development is also organically linked to the operation of a relatively low number of active beds in internal medicine that is able to carry out medical emergencies in a progressive manner. It has also been said that every weekday in the Tapolca hospital can be provided with one-day surgical care, which will be provided by the surgical department with the right operating room and ten active beds. It should be mentioned, however, that in the past period there have been 90 active beds in internal medicine, and one-day surgery is not the same as surgery. I ask the Secretary of State when the promise becomes a reality, when the Tapolcans get what is theirs back. When will the active beds promised by you be returned, or will this remain at the promised level? The citizens of Tapolca will never leave it alone. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If they take away what was theirs or forget who took it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-15-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know very well that in the Tapolca hospital, as in almost every hospital in the country, there are very large improvements in total 400 locations. If you look at the country, you will find 400 locations where 500 billion HUF of development will take place, of which the Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca can be a highlight, since the total amount of HUF 2.3 billion is being developed there this year as well. There are two outstanding directions to this: one is a TIOP project, and this is also an issue that you referred to, the extension of one-day surgical care with a reinforced outpatient care background, which is the goal of one of the projects. This includes the maintenance of chronic care and rehabilitation care, as well as the establishment of a new, modern rescue station connected to the surgical clinic building. I believe that this is an answer to one of the questions you have raised. And the other comes from special features. Support for this proposal and this operational programme is aimed at developing pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation services. These were prepared already in 2012 and in 13, and these developments started, and this summer they will be prepared. In total, these improvements will be implemented in two or three years. What you have mentioned is the settlement of debt: in recent weeks, the entire resources needed for the institution's debt management have also arrived at Tapolca Hospital, so the difficulties that have been caused by the debt management have been eliminated at Tapolca Hospital. This has not been the case in recent years, Congressman, we can look back up to ten years in order to settle the debt services of hospitals for a total of HUF 60 billion for the years. In addition, you know that county health coordination committees and financial committees have been established, economic committees, which discuss how to allocate improvements to the creation of certain active supply elements. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If it comes up in these professional conciliation forums, this is the question...
u2015-06-15-80	Thank you...
u2015-06-15-81	... obviously after that, the government can decide. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2015-06-15-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:, How did the water vb fall into the trap of corruption risks? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-06-15-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The 2017 World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial and Open Water Championship in Budapest is supported by the May Other Politics, of course. However, the way in which the sporting event is prepared is strongly rejected. With the philosophy of special regulations tailored to investment, the problem of LMP is twofold. On the one hand, such a banishes the potential for local citizens to have a say, and on the other hand, it relaxes in large investments with the greatest environmental burden, which are most capable of transforming our environment. On the other hand, in the case of large investments, such a procedure eliminates control and transparency, where corruption risks are the greatest, where public money is the easiest way to come up with ideas. If Hungary had been properly governed over the past decade and a half, there would not be a need for priority investment laws, since appropriate procedural rules and the administrative system would be able to serve such projects smoothly. Unfortunately, that is not the case. However, there is no objective that can be used to justify all instruments. The system of rules for investment in water Worlds, which is an exception, poses a serious risk of corruption, which is a serious threat for hyenas, who are lurking around an amazing amount of public money and have no control over their use, but also for our cultural and natural heritage. I'm asking the Minister why we had to trap the water world into corruption risks. What about the public spending without necks and the authorisation to eliminate environmental, construction, spatial planning and heritage protection requirements, which are essentially bankó in connection with the investment? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-06-15-84	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Seszták.
u2015-06-15-85	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! In March of this year, on 10 March, it was decided that Hungary would undertake to host the FINA swimming World Championship in 2017 four years earlier than the originally planned 2021 date. For the full implementation of all elements of the investment, 22-24 months remained, with the six-month accreditation period reduced to three months by FINA. The size of the investment takes approximately one-and-a-half years of preparation, half-yearly planning, 3-6 months of authorisation and approximately two-year implementation period. The ideal time for complete operation is only less than half of four to four and a half years. Without a law and a government decision to accelerate the implementation of the necessary investments, achieving the objective would be impossible. In order to achieve this effectively, design, licensing and implementation are in practice carried out in parallel. All departments involved in the authorisation will be kept informed during the planning process and their position will always be considered to be relevant. The Act allowing the investment to be carried out by the deadline was adopted by the Parliament by 97 percent, with the agreement of all opposition parties outside the LMP. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-86	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development what further road development is expected in Vas county? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2015-06-15-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, On behalf of the Ministry of National Development, the upgrade of Highway 88 was completed for a length of 6.3 kilometers, which was delivered on 22 May. The busy main road connects the two most dynamically developing cities of Vas county, Szombathely and Sárvár. In addition to the 11.5 ton hull reinforcement, the frame bridges above the Kőris stream in Sárvár and Vát, the junction of main road 88 and access road 8458 were renovated, and a two-way bicycle route was built at a length of 2.2 km parallel to the main road. This new road, whose task is to connect Szombathely and Sárvár, represents the development of North Vas county well. It is also important that this section connects Sárvár to the blood circulation of the largest roads in Europe as a whole. Overall, Sárvár and its region have been given a new impetus. The Government has developed a development strategy for the development of national transport infrastructure for the period 2014 to 2050. The strategy considers that transport infrastructure should help to increase Hungary's competitiveness as much as possible by providing efficient service to economic processes, with an additional objective to improve the conditions for the mobility of the economy and well-being. A key aspect of development is to create a more useful transport structure at social level and to increase the efficiency of transport services. The country's transport system is characterised by capitalism, which is reflected in both road and rail traffic. In Vas county, this decade has been a decade of transport development, for which there is evidence not only of the 86th road built, but also of railway development. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister what further road development is expected in Vas County. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-88	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Seszták.
u2015-06-15-89	Mr President, Parliament! Congressman! In recent years important road developments have taken place in Vas County. Among other things, the Felsőszölnök-Tétvölgy connecting road has been built, the construction of the two-track pre-emption phase between Körmend and Egyházasrádóc has been completed. It has also been completed to strengthen the section between the border of Körmend and Zala to 11,5 tonnes. A number of improvements are still under way, such as the construction of the 86-way section to Csorná, the reinforcement of the 11.5-tonne hull between Körmend and the border of Zala county, the common bypass section of the 86-76 main roads between Nádasd-Hegyhátsál-Katafa and the reinforcement of the 11.5-tonne casing of the 8-way between Szemenye-Vasvár and Rabahíd-Körmend. Most of the ongoing developments will be completed this year. Among the plans to be implemented are the construction of the Körmend border section of the M8 motorway, for which we are currently looking for resources. According to the cooperation agreement between the government and the municipality of Zalaegerszeg, the motorway section between Vasvár-Zalaegerszeg is also being planned. In addition, further investments in Vas county are expected, such as the cross-border section of main road No 8 or the development of road No 87 between the border of Szombathely. The national road renovation programme is expected to renovate some 18 kilometres of the critical road section in Vas county. The availability of the areas concerned will improve, travel times will decrease, the capacity of the sections will increase, the level of service for road and coach transport will increase. The Ministry of National Development will continue to mobilise all available resources to improve the state of domestic roads and to expand the network. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-90	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Who will pay for the additional tens of millions of HUF in Szeged, caused by the tightening of domestic assistance as a social benefit? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2015-06-15-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 March, the government essentially abolished the aid system and transferred the solution to the task to the municipalities. Kindergarten support, housing support, debt management services, equity care fees, equity public health care have ceased, and all of this has been completely transformed, as has the social assistance system. Housing support, debt management service and regular social assistance only affected 3300 households in Szeged. Now here's another insane restriction: they're gonna ask for money for home assistance. [[14.00]] In a number of small settlements, free care can be paid if we accept the amendment of the social law that was discussed before Parliament last week. As is well known, local authorities are obliged to provide home assistance to those who so request and otherwise need it according to their condition. Although the government does provide a normative approach to this, the municipalities had to make up for it if necessary, and in many cases it is necessary. Now it will be up to the municipalities to ask the needy for money to be someone who comes to their home to help them get along in everyday life, such as cleaning, dispensing drugs, or dressing. Because a minimum fee of 285 HUF will be introduced, because according to the Ministry, too many people receive care for no reason. According to the data of KSH, 131 thousand people had already received assistance in Hungary in 2013 and 48 293 days of care in Szeged, which in the future could mean tens of millions forints for the municipality to take over instead of those in need. We find that while poverty indicators are deteriorating, income scissors are opening up between the poor and the rich, the government is drawing new resources from the worst-off social groups, the disabled, the poor families, but also from the municipalities. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State why there is yet another need for people who are already in difficulty to be re-smeared, and if the municipalities really have to accept the award, will the government pay for it instead of them. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-15-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-15-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, While you were talking about a social issue here in Parliament, which is a very appropriate thing, your fellow Member was taking pictures of you here. Obviously now a better picture of the MSZP fraction was taken than when the social law was debated on 12 June. I do not know how good their eyes are, whether my fellow socialists can see how many familiar faces they can discover in this picture of the Chamber. [[Dr. László Varga: Don't talk... Anita Heringes: Pathetic!]] When the social law you referred to here in your speech, Mr President, was spoken here in Parliament, neither you nor any other socialist fellow Member were here. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Interjection at the same place: KDNP... Dr. László Varga: The non-existent faction of the non-existent party...]] They gave their opinion in the lead speaker's round... [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] I see we've hit a painful point at MSZP, so there's a lot of heat. [[Dr. László Varga: Your support is zero! It's a round mouth! Intercom from the ranks of the MSZP: Don't speak!]] So the MSZP faction was a little quieter when the social law was debated, because they said their own speech at the beginning of the debate and then, when the debate on social and child protection laws continued, they left the Chamber. This also indicates the attitude when this is more important for the Socialist Party and when it is less important. There is no doubt that the amendment of the social security system entered into force from 1 March 2015. As a result, a hundred percent of the income substitute subsidies are now referred to by the districts, thereby exempting the municipalities from their own participation, while the spending compensatory subsidies are granted by the municipalities, to which the State grants tens of billions of dollars in aid, and obviously the municipalities with less tax capacity, i.e. those with less own business tax revenue, are better assisted by the State. In Szeged, they can also provide housing support, back-up support and pharmaceutical support. But also on the part of the state who had received regular social assistance [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Answer the question at last! Answer the question. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: You are a disgrace!]] , replacement for employment aid...
u2015-06-15-94	Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-95	... may also receive health and child care support.
u2015-06-15-96	Thank you very much. Time's up, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-15-97	Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame! Dr. Bence Rétvári: There would have been an answer if there had been less shouting.]]
u2015-06-15-98	Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró and Lajos Rig, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-06-15-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I've been informed of the state of rescue stations operated by the National Rescue Service in Tolna County in recent weeks. In my experience, the situation is extremely devastating. In constituency 2 there are three rescue stations: Bonyhádon, Dombóvár and Hőgyész. The building where the hill is located will slowly be useless, and the professional placement of the vehicles has not been solved, and the employees do not even have a normal locker room. The situation in Bonyhad is somewhat better, at least the condition of the building there is not yet close to life-threatening, but the garage is so small that it is very difficult to solve the entry and exit, which often takes literally life - meaning minutes from the migration time. The situation is aggravated by the fact that paramedics, doctors, drivers are forced to work here in unworthy circumstances. It is also disappointing that, according to the OMSZ, there is no rescue or premature carriage on duty in Tolna County, so at present such a special vehicle should reach the northernmost point of Tolna County from Pécs in a short time. I ask, on the basis of all this, when is it expected that the rescue stations will be renovated in the settlements in question? Are you planning to improve the working conditions of health workers in Tolna County? Finally, when are you planning on purchasing a rescue or premature car in the region? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-15-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, There are nine rescue stations in Tolna County, 26 ambulances. In the framework of the TIOP project, entitled "Development of Urgent Care - Rescue, Air Rescue, Tolna County, there has also been a network extension aimed at providing rapid and professional care in small regions with more disadvantaged, so-called white spots, in terms of emergency care. Thus, the new rescue station in Bátaszék started operating in Tolna County on 1 February 2015, with a total of 60 units in the framework of the EU project, including Tolna County, currently the dynamicization of Pakson, Szekszárdon rescue stations. In addition to EU funding, rescue stations are constantly being renovated depending on the financial possibilities of the National Rescue Service. We also try to improve working conditions with the support of local foundations and entrepreneurs. A new mobile garage is being built in the yard of the rescue station in Múllóvár. The idea of building a new rescue station has been raised several times, but this has not yet been achieved in the absence of financial resources. Negotiations are ongoing with the municipality on how to establish a new rescue station in the municipality. Herogyész and Bonyhád rescue stations are in good condition, the placement of the exit personnel has been resolved. Regardless of the above, the supply of car and rescue equipment is the average. Children's rescue and early birth rescue services provide special needs from both personal and physical sides. Special units are also organised regionally in countries in a better economic situation than we do, including here. The organisation of smaller territorial care is often hampered, not by financial means, but by professional services. Each rescue unit is able to care for patients, regardless of age, so children in Tolna County are also provided with emergency care. The care may be assisted, if necessary, by the rescue car and by the preterm rescuer. Specially equipped [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] children's rescue car can be used from Pécs and Budapest...
u2015-06-15-102	Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-103	... underthealertsystem. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question about questions about the playground scandal? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-06-15-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The case I'd like to ask you about is 145, according to other sources, 140 small settlements. [[András Tállai: Hectar?]] because the European Anti-Fraud Office has revealed that in so many cases there has been a tender payment where there has been no real source demand and that these tenders have been paid by the Hungarian authorities with a substantial overpriced price. [[Intercom from Fidesz: Did you steal that, too?]] There have been a lot of questions about this. I would like to ask you now if you can see from the Hungarian Gazette that the government has already provided a public source of HUF 1 billion 789 million, and I would like to know whether the Ministry of the Interior has always done so to the 140 municipalities concerned because of these applications. [[János Pócs: Two thousand acres of land!]] I'd like to know where the investigation is now, if there's been an indictment. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Does your wallet know anything about the state of the investigation? I would also like to ask you - Facebook, such as this, is also known to help Mr. János Pócs' future son-in-law to receive this money more quickly - whether everyone had received it, whether it needed different help, because here the correspondence shows that his special intervention was needed to do so. I would like to know if this is indeed the case, whether a Member can really help a local government to obtain these resources more quickly. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State whether we can now even find out the list of the municipalities concerned, the list of the undertakings concerned. From the MVH to the present moment, we are in a lawsuit, and I have not been able to find out. In fact, it is obvious to me that any local government concerned has had some concern that it could have been noticed. [[14.10]] I wonder how, in the opinion of Mr State Secretary, what was so obvious to OLAF did not appear to any Hungarian authority. How could he have passed all the municipalities who signed the performance certificate, passed the MVH system, applied for? How natural is it to notice such fraud from Brussels? I look forward to your reply in this respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-106	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-06-15-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The question raised by you relates to a tender issued and evaluated in 2009. In 2011, OLAF started to investigate on the basis of a notification, i.e. it was notified in 2011 and the investigation was concluded in 2014. Indeed, 140 municipalities have applied for a playground contest issued by the MVH, where there are irregularities around the VAT refund and VAT clearance, and according to OLAF's report, the prosecutor's office is conducting an investigation at the moment in the direction of how the scheme with which the application was run was developed. Congressman wants to know if you can find out the list of settlements. After quoting the exact amount of HUF 1 billion, HUF 789 million, I assume you took this out of the Hungarian Gazette; the settlements are also located in the same location as who received this support. Each settlement received the aid at the same time, in one package. The decision was made because these playground constructions and related problems arose in small settlements in settlements where the amount to be recovered could reach half of the annual budget. So in order for the settlements to remain operational, so that the children could go to kindergarten, so that the children's meals could work, so that the institutions could work, it was absolutely necessary for state aid. The representatives, all the representatives concerned, who had similar problems in their constituency, sought out the local government, as well as the local government associations, and the leaders of both the local government associations and the settlements were indeed pleased and thanked for the rapid help that we could avoid the impenetrable damage caused by the repayment by providing the aid. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-15-108	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, 'Do you really listen to the entire law firm? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2015-06-15-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of June, the Board of the Budapest Bar Association set up an expert group to examine whether it is legally possible to observe lawyers by secret service means. In a criminal case, a decision has been reached that the National Defence Service has intercepted the cell phone and office of its charged lawyer. Dear Secretary of State, The right to protection is one of the oldest principles, which is one of the foundations of the rule of law criminal proceedings. The wiretap of the lawyer of the person involved in criminal proceedings is a very serious violation of the right of defence. It is therefore entirely understandable that the Chamber's Presidency considers the wiretap of the law firms unacceptable and committed itself to immediate action. The question is, as Secretary of State and Minister of the Interior of Sándor Pintér, as a member of the government in charge of police agencies and national security services, what is your position on this matter? Do you consider it acceptable to violate the rights of defence, that is to say, the wiretap and surveillance of law firms by secret service means? If you believe the concerns of the bar are well-founded, will you investigate the wiretap involving law firms or cooperate with the board of inquiry of the bar? If it is found that several law firms have been monitored, are measures taken to eliminate them immediately? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-15-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-15-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Only entities defined by law are entitled to continue collecting and obtaining classified information. This can only be done for the purposes and procedures laid down by law and in accordance with the provisions of the National Security Services and Police Act. Secret information shall only be collected under external control, with judicial or judicial ministerial permission. Subject to the requirements of the rule of law, the application and grant of the licence shall always be made in accordance with a documented procedure in accordance with the laws. In view of this, it can be stated that organisations authorised by law may carry out secret gathering and data collection solely for judicial or judicial ministerial purposes, for the purposes of detection, prevention and prosecution of criminal offences, in order to prevent, prevent and prosecute, interrupt, identify, apprehend, locate and obtain evidence of the perpetrators. It follows from the principle of purpose limitation that data obtained during the collection of confidential information can only be used within the limits laid down in the Law on Criminal Procedure. This means that data not related to the case, to the subject of the confidential information collection, cannot be stored or used in general. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It should therefore be stressed that the wiretap is not carried out on a general basis, but is carried out by the authorised organisations in the context of a specific case for detection, crime prevention and law enforcement purposes. [[Interviews from the line of MSZP: Answer me! He didn't answer! What's the answer? The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-15-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: This is not an answer! Answer me!]] Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask a question [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Everyone can read the rule. What's the answer?]] for the Minister of Human Resources: Why put future educators in a difficult position because of the continuous slippage of Klebelsberg training scholarships? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2015-06-15-113	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It was not so long ago that the billions withdrawn by the government from higher education did not or were late in receiving their scholarship in many institutions. It didn't take long for the next problem, as students in the undivided teacher training didn't get their scholarship in time this month. The problem is neither unique nor one-off, as Klebelsberg's reference to the training scholarship is almost continuous. The continuous delay in the amount of between HUF 25,000 and HUF 75,000 per month puts a lot of students in difficulty, as for many people only this scholarship is the only source of income. And there's more publishing than that for a college student like you. This is to pay housing, ever-increasing dormitory or rental fees, ever-expanding books, notes, bills, and, of course, everyday livelihoods. Many have the right to ask how the state can expect citizens to respect the deadlines if it does not consider them mandatory. A citizen will be punished at this time, he will have to pay a late fee, but the state will be able to do so without any consequences to delay several weeks with the payment of scholarships. In addition, the future educators in the contract undertake to establish a working relationship at a public educational institution later, so that this scholarship can be regarded as a kind of wage, so this delay is even more serious on your part. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, why do you keep putting future educators in such a difficult position? How can a public institution regularly pay scholarships late? Who is responsible for this, and what will be the consequences of the delay for him? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-114	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-15-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, it is important to stress that this scholarship, the Klebelsberg Scholarship, was created by this government a few years ago, precisely to encourage 18-year-old career-makers, as is apparent from the name of the scholarship, so that young people with the best skills can choose the teaching profession, the teaching career. The career model and wage increase of teachers is important, but the Klebelsberg Scholarship is also important, since there are 25-50 and 75,000 HUF scholarships for those who undertake undivided training to complete the teaching course, and then they will become teachers. [[14.20]] 570 such applications were last received for the 2014-15 academic year and 516 applications were submitted for contracting. Here, there was a threefold system of criteria, the first and most important is that the scholarship is an answer to the pedagogue's needs, on the other hand, the recruitment results were also important, and on the third, we also tried at regional level to ensure that where teachers are most absent, as many as possible get scholarships from there. Thus, 142 students receive 75 thousand scholarships per month, 278 students receive 50 thousand scholarships per month and 96 students receive 25 thousand forints per month. The law itself, the government decree, which provides for the Klebelsberg grant, says 8th. In the case of a six-monthly grant, the legislation does not provide for a monthly payment. The payment shall be made in no more than two instalments every six months, the first payment shall be made in each case in the month following the notification of the grant decision or the establishment of the scholarship, with retroactive effect until the beginning of the study semester, and the remaining amount shall be due in the following month. If anyone has a payment problem, we will operate an e-mail address and telephone number to deal with the complaints. There can be no reason for lack of resources in higher education, as we have already provided HUF 17 billion in additional funding in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedicty and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-06-15-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At present, rescue workers feel as if they are participating in the public work programme in II, at least because of their salary, working conditions and lack of appreciation. But the tension caused by the lack of equipment is also being dealt with by people. Nevertheless, the paramedics will continue to go to court for their risk allowance. That is why I ask: do you think that the 120 per cent of the work allowance currently fixed for them is sufficient, proportionate to the work done? If you take into account the stress of exiting the alert and emergency medical care, or if, for example, they are often called out to drug users and alcoholics, do you really think that's what rescue workers deserve? Why is it that a car driver's allowance comes in significantly less dangerous jobs, while it is not the case for ambulance drivers? Why should there be higher basic wages and countless other allowances for those in office, while there is no government intention to do so in ambulances that risk their lives and health? Is it proportionate that as long as the outgoing paramedic has to manage at a rate of HUF 95,000 a month, the ambulance managers will bring home nearly a million dollars in salaries? While the problems of development, the increasing number of shifts, the burden of lack of expertise and tools, do not make the work of leaders in the centre even more difficult. If they refuse to add basic wages and payment classifications to a higher category, it would be expected that allowances due to the nature of the work carried out should be paid to the outgoing staff. While the Armed Forces have a salary increase programme, when can the paramedics expect a similar rate of salary increase, or when will they receive a salary close to the staff of the Armed Forces? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-06-15-118	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-15-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that everyone here in Parliament agrees that it is necessary to give the marchers the highest possible moral and financial respect, and when it is to be expressed in money, it is necessary to do so in a way that improves working conditions, if in a moral way, it is necessary to do so, because it is people who save lives every day, indeed, in conditions that are often completely trying, not only physically, but also spiritually. And to endure this day and day, even at night, is obviously no small task, which is why they have great respect and respect. We have tried to show this respect in the entire budget of the National Rescue Service. Perhaps you know, Mr President, that in 2010 this amount was HUF 23.4 billion, and we increased it to HUF 33 billion in 2014, in the draft budget for 2016 - if the House accepts it - and it will increase to HUF 36 billion. So the amount of money that the rescue service can manage will increase from 23.4 to HUF 36 billion. In addition, the construction of rescue stations and the renovation of them, called dynamics from European Union sources, has already been mentioned here in the House; perhaps you have been here, and I would not stress that. In 2012 and 2013, we also tried to increase the salaries of doctors, paramedics, paramedics and rescue car drivers working at OMSZ. This could mean an average increase of HUF 40,000, which is obviously not the end of this wage increase policy, but it is important to mention that we have tried to do so over the past four years. The next step, which has already been discussed before the Parliament's Committee on Welfare and in the press: the so-called release of frozen wages and mobile wage elements in 2002 will obviously mean a noticeable increase for paramedics working in a continuous working order, and next year's budget will be HUF 12.8 billion for this extra cost. So we're hoping that the EMTs' wages will increase next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What about the farmers in Szabolcs? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2015-06-15-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Three weeks ago, at Pentecost, a great natural disaster struck the eastern part of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and a huge hail struck Chengert and its surroundings. The long - torn hail caused irreversible damage to agricultural cultures in some 25 settlements, especially outside Csenger, Rozsály, Gacsály and Nojta. Orchards such as sour cherries, apples, plums, field tables such as corn or sunflowers, but even vegetable crops, such as cucumber, suffered hail. Based on preliminary surveys, the damage suffered by farmers in many places is 100%, but also in less unfortunate places is 75% to 80%. On the basis of preliminary estimates, the damage to farmers is well over HUF 10 billion, and then we are talking about this year's crop loss; we have not yet spoken about the damage to the trees in the fruit cultures to the extent that it affects next year's crop. This includes the fact that agriculture is the only source of income in one of the most backward areas of our country, which, unfortunately, has become the victim of a real disaster in the sense of the word, as a result of the natural disaster mentioned above. The county government offered 200 thousand forints to help the victims, and sent a circular to 229 municipalities of the county asking the municipalities to contribute to the assistance of the victims, acting as an example of the county. You know, Mr. Secretary, these are the municipalities that, as a result of the government's work, are constantly struggling with a lack of resources. That's why I'm asking the wallet what's going to happen to the farmers in Szabolcs who suffered the damage. How will the damage more than 10 billion be recovered? In total, there is about HUF 8 billion of funds in the entire country for the whole year. That's not enough for this particular area. What can farmers expect? Do they really think that they want to involve the local government with a lack of resources in the compensation? Finally, does the agricultural government think about State support for anti-icing systems in addition to compensation? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-122	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-06-15-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, is currently working on the construction of a national hail response system in addition to the existing South-Transdanubian system, supported by the Ministry, within the framework of the new rural development programme, which we hope will significantly reduce the damage of producers suffering hail and ice damage throughout the country in the future. Under the rural development programme, the deployment of the ice web will also be eligible and the so-called income insurance support in the gardening sector will be launched in 2017, which will automatically compensate for a significant loss of income, regardless of the trigger. The renewed agricultural compensation scheme in 2012 also tackles the damage to ice, which has been continuously being developed ever since. Unlike the Member's information, from this year's year's damage relief fund will have an amount of more than HUF 21 billion, which may be sufficient to compensate the producers concerned for the highest amount of legal compensation. The annual production and public payments of HUF 8.6 billion are due to the remnants of previous years. It is important that the current hail damage is reported to victims within 15 days of its occurrence, in which village farmers also provide assistance. [[14.30]] This year, the agricultural compensation scheme will be open to small farmers who are not yet members by 16 June, so tomorrow they will be able to volunteer. In the context of the current exceptional damage, we are also looking at the possibility of establishing a long-term, preferential loan scheme that will help farmers beyond the possibilities of the agri-harm reduction scheme. In the spirit of risk prevention, the agricultural portfolio has been providing premium subsidies for agricultural insurance since 2012, which also cover hail damage. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. There is legislation in the stadium, but there is no law at the airport? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2015-06-15-125	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For most of us, it has already been clear that chaotic conditions prevail at Liszt Ferenc airport. Tourists arriving are often harassed by taxi drivers or, more specifically, unidentified persons who appear to be taxi drivers. And nobody thinks it's their job to clean up. All those involved point at each other, and when licensed taxi drivers dare to speak to their hyena colleagues, they can easily be beaten in response. In the last month, the media has been making a huge mess of videos of a mother and daughter being harassed by so-called taxi hyenas. The mother's hand is taken out of her suitcase against her will, and she resists, and as a result, more and more men gather around her. And the goal, of course, is to travel with them. The woman and the child can only go on until the men see the scene on video. Despite the above, the police say there's nothing wrong, and the airport's management says they're powerless against illegal taxi drivers harassing passengers. The commercial activity at Budapest Airport cannot be carried out without permission, but there is no compelling means to comply with this rule, said the airport spokesperson. This is also interesting because, for example, a fan who shouts nasty words at a soccer game can immediately be led out by the security service. Therefore, we may well ask: is there a law in the stadium, but is there no law at the airport? I have already asked this question in writing to the Minister of the Interior, to which I have been told that the law provides a relatively wide range of measures for the airport security company. As regards the video mentioned above, only infringement proceedings are being prepared, although it is quite clear that several crimes may have taken place. In the interests of Hungarian citizens and foreign tourists, I ask what they intend to do in practice to solve the problems mentioned above. Do you still think everything is okay at Ferihegy airport? Finally, how is the investigation of the case in the video progressing, and when will the perpetrators be held accountable? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-15-126	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-15-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Our goal is to ensure order in all areas of life, in every settlement in the country. As regards the specific case, the government, the Ministry of the Interior and the police also strongly reject and condemn all forms of violence. It uses all available legal means to prevent, detect and prosecute perpetrators. The specific event indicated by the Member is fortunately not a general phenomenon at the airport. [[István Szávay: Yes!]] On the basis of the available photos and other information, in all the circumstances of the case, the airport police directorate conducted an ex officio infringement procedure for infringement of law. The documents generated in the course of the proceedings were sent to the Pest Central District Court's Violent Crime Group. The airport police department is constantly monitoring taxi operators, but no civil complaints have been received due to similar actions. Budapest Airport Zrt. from August 2014 at Liszt Ferenc Airport in Budapest. As a trustee, a property protection company carries out security tasks. In addition, police officers from the airport police department shall monitor the activities of, inter alia, taxi operators present in the performance of their duties as traffic police and public security. The competent police department will continue to pay particular attention in cooperation with Budapest Airport Zrt. and the security service to maintain the order of the airport. Examining whether changes to existing legislation are necessary in order to prevent further similar cases is currently under way, Member. It should be pointed out that, pending any legislative amendment, the competent police body, in cooperation with the security service, should continue to take the necessary measures to ensure public security and the maintenance of public order, on the basis of the legislation in force and under the appropriate legal authority. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why does the government derail the inhabited areas of Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-06-15-129	May I begin, Mr. President?
u2015-06-15-130	Time's up, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The history of Scented Road Chemical Pollution is one of the typical causes of environmental safety risks. In recent times, we have been promised that full remediation will take place, and the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office has also said that all government efforts will be made in the next period. Compared to this, we know at the moment that the leaking barrels have been removed, some of them have been disposed of, and another part has been temporarily stored. Obviously, the question arises: if there is no resources in 2016 in the Budget Compensation Fund to enable the government or its bodies to devote substantial resources to this, then what and how will the full remediation take place. The Greenpeace research, which has even shown the presence of DDT miles away from the landfill, is certainly well known to the Secretary of State, so it can be said that the poison has also spread to the living organism, the inhabitants of the place. My question is where and in what form the national remedial priority list is available, on the basis of which the most urgent remedial tasks could be sorted out; if there are other poison sites, then there is obviously a question of how many more of these could be in the country. In recent years, in what organised framework and expert background has the list been updated and additional sources of pollution mapped? - that's my second question. Finally, I ask how much money the state budget will provide for environmental remediation in the next year, in the light of undeniable emergencies. Obviously, the question was also raised as to the fact that the complete remediation was announced in Balmazújváros, too, with a big chandelier, and there are still more things to date, and there has not been a complete remediation. We want to see if the same fate awaits the Scented Road. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-132	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-06-15-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, I understand your anger, but you've lost the recipient. It is the irresponsible and illegal conduct of polluting companies that can lead to such a situation. It is the irresponsible behaviour of liquidators and the failure to comply with the requirements of the Authority's decision to eliminate environmental damage that may result in such a situation. The government has to deal with the consequences of these irresponsible acts of public money against the public. In Hungary, there is a law on the principle that environmental use should be organised and carried out in such a way as to prevent pollution and environmental damage. Accordingly, the handling and storage of hazardous substances and waste should be carried out in accordance with strict legal requirements and under official supervision. Hungary was the first to launch an environmental remediation programme in the Central European region. The programme designers then estimated the number of potentially contaminated areas requiring investigation to be 35 thousand, whose remedial tasks were defined in 50-60 years and in thousand billion HUF. In response to your specific question, I would like to inform my colleague that the priority calculations are calculated in the background institution of the portfolio responsible for environmental protection, according to the methodology developed under the national environmental remediation programme. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the listing of potentially and proven contaminated areas can only be relative, dynamically variable, and does not mean a sequence carved in stone. For the national inventory and professional ranking of potentially contaminated and remedial areas, the national environmental information system compensation information subsystem, Kárinfo, is used. The data will be recorded through the environmental authority. I would also like to tell you that the Hungarian State has provided more than HUF 250 billion in total in the budget, with a total of HUF 19 billion in 2015 being allocated to the wallets to discharge their responsibilities. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. When will Miskolc finally take place? It's an address. Mr László Varga has the floor. [[14.40]]
u2015-06-15-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The election programme for the 2014 parliamentary elections included Miskolc getting a Ministry of Regional Development and Catch-up that could obviously give the region the opportunity to break out, or at least a back-up institution, a public body that can make effective progress on this issue. In many parts of the world, public administration, moving part of the central government to the countryside, can be an effective tool, has a positive impact on the intellectual ability of a region, can create jobs, and can stimulate the economy locally. Of course, such a proposal must be sound, on a professional basis, but such a proposal has been made in the past, for example, in Kecskemét, the State Secretary responsible for agri-rural development. I think that if something like this is needed somewhere, it is the part of the country, East Hungary, where Miskolc is also located, and I think as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc I can say that this is necessary primarily in Miskolc, because it could play a significant role in catching up the region. So how much longer do we have to wait for this? When are you going to realize that in the case of Miskolc, we have to take action on these issues? I have said this for a very long time, and I think that this could also be a very important element in the recovery from the crisis. So I am definitely asking the Secretary of State when will they act in the matter of Miskolc having the opportunity to receive a similar body, a State Secretary or a Ministry from the central government? When are you gonna make your move on this case? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-136	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-06-15-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. It is true that we have started the work in the State Reform Committee, which meets regularly and, as an advisory body of the Prime Minister's Office, plays a major role in the reorganisation of public administration, which we have called dislocation. In particular, we will look at what public bodies can be moved to the countryside, how effective they can be in the countryside, and whether there is the necessary professional base, human resources in the larger rural economic and cultural centres. As you know, Mr President, you mentioned earlier in your speech that since January 2015, the Secretary of State for Rural Development of the Prime Minister's Office has been operating in Kecskemét. Based on the experience so far, we can say that the decision was right and that in everyday work this does not mean any disruption. Thank God, the slogan that we said at the time of the move, which was also confirmed by Minister Prime Minister at the Kecskemét handover to work in rural areas for rural people, so that the people involved in rural development policy were primarily working in rural areas, was valid. I invite the Member and others to Kecskemét to see how the State Secretariat of Miklós Kis works. We are open to all such requests from representatives. The Prime Minister was in Miskolc on 21 April, where he signed a cooperation agreement with the Mayor, and you participated in it. You seem to be very concerned about the fate of your city. Here, a number of issues have been agreed concerning economic and cultural development. This issue has not yet been discussed in particular, as the background work is being done, as I said, in the Committee on State Reform, but, of course, our basis is that important public bodies operate in the countryside, which has not changed. In what direction and when we will be able to move forward, it is to a large extent [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It will depend on the material of the State Reform Committee and the government's decision. In the meantime, I ask for your patience, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: "The salt supply consultant, the beauty of the Blikk, and the domestic vehicle production of the death cycle. Or don't you really feel like something stinks up in Dunakess Vehicle Repair, a sandbox for fidesz buddies? It's an address. [[Defiance.]] Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2015-06-15-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On an oral question about the fate of domestic vehicle manufacturing, Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, has previously given up the propaganda text of the Ministry of National Development. Of course, they support Hungarian producers in words. In words, of course, pick the home and protect the home! In the spirit of his philosophy, he is given orders at the level of promises by economic assassins according to John Perkins' terminology [[Defiance.]] Thus, Hungarian economic operators have not yet been bled out by foreign competitors and their domestic governors during the regime change. However, the main goal, the development of the Hungarian automotive industry, is in contradiction with reality, as there is hardly any domestic bus running on the streets of Budapest, even though there would be a capacity in Hungary. It would be enough to ask the head of the Association of Hungarian Bus Manufacturers. But there are also saddening phenomena in the field of railway vehicle manufacturing. The state's bad owner - he sedated his lie day and night in the privatization of the breasts fattened neoliberal locusts [[Defiance.]] Which the Jobbik couldn't agree with. But what happens at Dunakess Vehicle Repair is more than outrageous. According to established press reports, instead of renovating the broken trains of the MÁV on the sidelines, the workers do not work, they are on forced leave. Why did the salt expert fidesz group spokesperson have to fill the company's management with his dilettant salt expert buddies? Why do they make a company that is more expensive to taxpayers, but which is well-paying to their vassals? What is the quality of the state's productive relationship building for the company's important position, although it is undoubtedly decorative, Blikk's beauty if the factory is on its way to where it has been corrupted? If you do not respond to the concerns of the workers or questions of the press, despite the promises, will you please tell me: do you think everything is all right, Dunakeszin? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-140	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2015-06-15-141	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We could hear a question full of jokes and better words, which is far from investigating where Dunakeszin works at Vehicle Repair Ltd., whether people worked or worked. He didn't deal with it, and it's important to know that people were able to work in the previous 12 months, but they didn't have an order, so they were forced to work several times, regardless of their salary. This is a fact to be praised in itself, and very few recently are the situations where we are faced with such a situation, that there is no order at work, yet workers are paid. In any case, the Hungarian economy was protected by the government and is also working to try to help in every situation. In addition to the energy sector, we would also like to help in the area of vehicle manufacturing, and you have already seen and seen these steps. What is important is that, after a part of the vehicle repair company became state-owned, it was in a completely different situation. We can already say it's only been four months, he has contracts with GYSEV and MÁV Start Zrt. for the main examination of passenger cars. Therefore, instead of previously loss-making agreements, they enter into conditional contracts that guarantee the further employment of the people employed there. In Hungarian, people can work full-time again here, they will have a salary, and let's say there is a future for the repairer of the vehicle, the repairer of Dunakeszi. You were talking about a worker, you mentioned that because of the attacks on him, the employee resigned, his employment ended. Nevertheless, the company will continue to operate and continue to exist, obviously, and we hope that, inter alia, its activities will be economical as a result of the assembly of Spanish trams and other orders. I trust that, in addition to the prank hunt, they also occasionally deal with the work of the people who live there and the lives of the people who live there. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After the 120-minute deadline for questions, Imre Ritter wishes to ask the Prime Minister a German minority voice question:. Hungary has never been a multicultural society? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Mr Ritter Imre spoke for himself. [[14.50]]
u2015-06-15-143	Sehr geehrter Herr Ministerpräsident! War Ungarn nie multikulturelle Gesellschaft? Mr. Prime Minister, Has Hungary never been a multicultural society? In his speeches to Prime Minister in Strasbourg on 19 May 2015 [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] a few sentences or parts of sentences have been said, and reports in the press have raised concerns among nationalities living in Hungary. They were sentences like this:, because we have never been a multicultural society;, We value the fact that Hungary is a homogeneous country, in its culture, mentality, and civilizational habits. We think it's a value, we don't want to sacrifice it. We want to preserve Hungary for Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Prime Minister, Today, some 10 percent of Hungary's population is still nationalised. According to the statement of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences: Hungary is part of Central Europe, which is characterised by nothing more than the presence of well-organized, culturally attached minorities. Cultural diversity is also valuable, which is protected by the state, not only on the basis of the national minority law currently in force in Hungary, but also on the basis of several international treaties. The person who denies this questions the recognition of minority communities, the membership of people belonging to minority communities and who are aware of their importance to the political community. Mr. Prime Minister, We believe that Hungarian politics has broken up with violent Hungarianisation once and for all. I am aware that sentences taken out of their so-called context, half-phrases, often give us the wrong conclusion. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to explain in his reply his clear position on cited sentences, multiculturalism, homogeneous and Hungarian society. Thank you in advance for your reply, Danke für Ihre Antwort! [[A round of applause from the ethnic advocates. It's a rare applause from the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-15-144	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-15-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Speaker, Dear House, Somehow, you gave me the beginning of the answer in your question, since you said that these sentences should be evaluated in a way that is considered in full context. And we really need to distinguish the multicultural term from the multicultural term. While many nationalities live in Hungary today, we can now see them here in Parliament, because since 2014, under the new Fundamental Law, their advocates can be here in Parliament, Hungary - as our Fundamental Law describes - the nationalities that live among us are also an integral part of the Hungarian nation. In contrast, multiculturalism, as an expression, is used to meet people from different civilizations. This is how it was used in Western Europe, so we use it in Central Europe. So we are faced with a completely different situation, not a question of living together over hundreds of years, of being in a good relationship with each other, but rather of the encounter between other Muslim, distant countries and European Christian-rooted societies, or even more so in Western European countries. Let me quote the Prime Minister's words from 3 June: Hungary has multi-ethnic roots and cultural background, but this is not multiculturalism. Multiculturalism is the co-existence of people from different civilizations, the co-existence of Islam, Asian religions and Christianity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The National Creed of the Fundamental Law states what the Fidesz-KDNP accepted here in Parliament several years ago:. We declare that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So all the nationalities that are represented here in Parliament at the level of their advocates are also an integral part of the Hungarian nation. This is how in December 2011 we adopted the National Rights Act, for example, 19 January was declared a memorial day for the abduction of Germans in Hungary by another decision, and with an important decision, we also gave a seat to spokespersons in Parliament, not to mention that in 2015 we increased the support of the area of nationality by 51.4 percent. Thank you very much. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Bravo! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-146	Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. The Minister has appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Zoltán Lukács nodds.]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-147	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Zsolt Gömöri and his good friend Tamás Deutsch, who led the Paralympic Committee, have been in the mood for six weeks. Istova found out six weeks ago that they lived with the money of the Paralympic athletes as if it were theirs. Istova found out six weeks ago that Zsolt Gömöri, head of the Paralympic Committee, paid off his housing loan with the money of the Committee, and this was encouraged by Tamás Deutsch, your MEP. Then it turned out that Mr. Gömöri, along with his family, was on vacation for some two million forints in the Canary Islands, with the money of the Paralympic athletes. Then they also found out that he took a commission on the funds of the supporters of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee. There's an investigation going on, and hell knows what's gonna come out. But one thing is certain: it turns out that Mr Gömöri and Mr Deutsch are completely inadequate and totally unworthy of the position they are in here. Nobody thinks Mr. Gömöri did this on his own. Everyone knows that Tamás Deutsch is delegated there as a political candidate, and he himself undertook to encourage Mr Gömöri himself to take these cases in a number of cases. Ladies and Gentlemen, There are paralympic athletes in Hungary, who have a daily livelihood; we have also met people who have trouble purchasing their daily bread, and then we hear that Tamás Deutsch and Mr. Gömöri spend on these people's money and live well on these people's money. The assembly of this committee will be held on Friday, but we also tell Mr Gömöri and Mr Deutsch not to wait until Friday, to resign immediately, because they have become unworthy. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-148	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-15-149	Thank you very much for the floor. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Deutsch resign! Everything!]] Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In your speech, the Ministry of Human Resources did not call for you, and you also did so on the basis that you know very well that this organization, the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, operates completely independently of the government and operates independently of the Ministry. The Committee, in cooperation with the Hungarian Olympic Committee, as a national sports association for disabled persons, is an autonomous public benefit organisation established under the Law on Association Law, Public Benefit Status and the Act on the Functioning and Support of Civil Society Organisations, as well as the Law on Sport, which operates as a municipal and sports association, and is a member of the International Paralympic Committee in Hungary. In accordance with the Statutes, the General Assembly shall be the body which is to take any decision, either with regard to persons of the President, the Vice-President or the Presidency or the Supervisory Board, as well as with regard to the auditor. So the powers of the General Assembly are all the questions that you raised, neither the EMMI nor any other ministry has jurisdiction in this. However, this issue, as you have said, has obviously become part of the public discourse in recent times, so everyone who has a role to play, so the President must also consider the best interests of the whole case, Paralympic sport. But this will be revealed at the general assembly on the 19th, and until then neither the government nor any other political player has the legal opportunity to influence or order. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-15-150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zoltán Lukács has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-06-15-151	Thank you very much. I would have expected the Secretary of State to condemn these people. He didn't judge her. The extent to which these sports associations can be independent when we see one and another when we see politicians being forced and blackmailed into almost all sports associations, wrestlers, handball players, and I could tell you everywhere, and I hope that it is not because Mr Gömöri and Mr Deutsch are making up the money. Mr Secretary, it would be best if the Kehi were to act very quickly in this matter, and the bodies that are meant to do so would investigate this issue very quickly. It's not enough that these two gentlemen will stand up from there, it's enough that they investigate this, and otherwise there will be consequences in this matter. And it would be even better if it were, as you say, that sport would be independent, and those party soldiers who were forced into various sports alliances would be taken out of there and left to work in peace with these sports alliances. Thank you very much. [[15.00]]
u2015-06-15-152	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-15-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, you speak of politicians in various sports associations as if, in the history of the last 25 years, only Fidesz-KDNP people had been elected to these positions. You know very well, and you may be able to list a longer list of various, rowing or other sports union leaders who have taken up such positions in sports associations in addition to their active careers in the MSZP politicians. [[Zoltán Lukács: That was the other way around! First he became a sports manager, then he became a congressman.]] So I think that if you considered one to be a repulsive one, then you should have obviously held the other, and if you have tolerated and accepted that socialist politicians and leaders are in various sports associations, then obviously you must accept this from Fidesz-KDNP. [[György Szilágyi: This is sports corruption!]] Of course, you may have liked it when socialist representatives were sports union leaders, but I don't like it when they're fidesz, but this is certainly not a matter of your political attitude with constitutional foundations. [[Anita Heringes: The season with the man, Mr. Secretary of State!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Korózs: Gömöri resign!]]
u2015-06-15-154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Reward of the Worker." The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-06-15-155	Mr President, I would like to wait for Prime Minister with great respect next week. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-156	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik... - and before that I should have told you that the Prime Minister would have to answer at the next hour of immediate questions. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-06-15-157	Since this question concerns the Prime Minister personally, I would like to wait for him. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-158	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "The government ignores the rights acquired by people living in work? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Vice-President, if you will accept the person of the response.
u2015-06-15-159	I'll take it.
u2015-06-15-160	He'll take it. Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice President, has the floor.
u2015-06-15-161	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Many negative measures have hit people in recent years who are approaching retirement. During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, the retirement age was raised from 62 to 65 years, the 13th month pension was taken away, reducing the amount of pensions by 8 percent. The Orbán government continued where the Gyurcsánys left off. The service pensions are gone, and the private pension fund's gone. Forints 3000 billion were lost in the bottomless well of public debt. But the rampage continued. You have also abolished the early retirement scheme, along with the rights already acquired. Nor did they care that the removal of early retirement has put a number of people living on wages at a disadvantage. The legislative change annulled the preferential years that workers would have received after the time they had spent in a job that would harm their health. Here's the situation. Some people could have retired this year thanks to the years collected, but because of your power policy, they couldn't have done so. As a result, they will have to work another four to five years, in many cases in the same job that is harmful to health. In his speech evaluating the government's work, Viktor Orbán said that they will no longer apply the policy of force in the future. Many of us would like to see this. Dear Secretary of State, What about the fractional years? What about the extra contributions? When do you think again about the establishment of an early pension scheme, which Minister Sándor Czomba has already promised? Don't you think the workers' patience is running out? To the fact that this moment is about to come, I'm holding that nearly 2,500 signatures in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] , collected by railmen in order to restore or rethink the early retirement pension scheme. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to present you with this petition, if you'll allow me. [[It's happening. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-06-15-162	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will answer the Member's question.
u2015-06-15-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr. Congressman began by saying what pensioners had to suffer at the end of the socialist period, and here, among other things, gave an example of the 13th month pension, which was cancelled by the Socialist Government in 2008-2009 at the instruction of the IMF. This was indeed a fall in a month's pension, i.e. a decline of about 8 percent, but if the Member adds nicely year after year how much the pensions increased, because the government had to determine at the beginning of the year and see how much inflation followed and how much pension inflation was, then he sees that this 8 percent had already been returned. After all, the last time I counted, the pension surplus was 6.9 percent, which is now more than the pensioner's real value or the pensioner's basket in 2010. So, on the one hand, we managed to return the pensioners to the 13th month pension that they took, we can say, the nine-tenth of it. On the other hand, in the case of pensioners, the cost of consumption is obviously very high, and a pensioner could save approximately HUF 70,000 on average over a year by reducing the rent, which also means almost a month's pension amount, with which pensioners are ahead each year. So what we have to say is that for those who are in retirement, their livelihoods have become somewhat easier than before 2010, because they have more incomes as a result of pension increases and fewer expenses as a result of the reduction of the rent. So the government always tried to think about pensioners when they passed the budget laws. As regards the acquisition of early retirement rights, Mr President, you know that the rights acquired last year for early retirement have not been lost. Thus, although the bill was drafted years earlier, the early acquisition of rights was only completed long after the modification of the pre-age regime, with the fact that the acquired rights could be enforced without a time limit. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Mr. Vice President in return. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-165	Dear Secretary of State, You were talking about pensioners, people who are already retired, and I wasn't talking about them. I was talking about those who would like to be retired in the coming years, and to get there, you have to live that age, which is now 65 years for men. Today, I hope that everyone knows that the expected age of a 30-year-old male is 33 years, so it's only 63 years in total, so it's not expected that a man who is 65 will be statistically worth his retirement. And since the early retirement pension scheme has been abolished, which was not mentioned by the Secretary of State, the early retirement pension system, there is no chance for people who are working in dangerous jobs to reach retirement age. I ask once again and very strongly, because there are not just reasons why 2500 signatures were collected by railwaymen from private service only to finally consider the introduction of the early retirement system, because it is not possible to deceive many, many tens of thousands of people in Hungary for years to somehow, at some point, to introduce it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that this government has not said anything, and we have said it quite clearly and clearly, that retirement should be compulsory for everyone in the single pension system in the same year. Some protested, especially in the case of judges, why they had to retire earlier, while others, such as those mentioned by you, protested about the rise in the retirement age, why they had to retire later. However, we thought that, in the long term, the pension system could only be sustainable by means of a single regulation, that everyone should retire at the same time, and that everyone should receive their pensions at the same time. In his speech, Mr President, he also opposed or criticised the transition from the former three-legged or three-pillar pension system to the two-pillar pension system. This is also odd, since Jobbik voted in 2010-11 for the law that led to the compulsory pension fund leg. So then Jobbik supported this, but now, later, against his own vote, he opposes the transformation of the system. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who will be accounted for? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[15.10]]
u2015-06-15-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given that the answer to my question is not within the competence of the Minister of National Economy, it is a matter of general government responsibility and I therefore have to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2015-06-15-170	Thank you for the Member's reply. The Prime Minister must answer your immediate question at the second session. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Representative of the LMP, you want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What should we teach at universities? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Bence Rétvári State Secretary for his reply because of his urgent public service. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Dr. András Schiffer nodds.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, the news was released that you will learn about the Holocaust as a mandatory subject in your submarine at PPKE, and two professors of the University of Tel Aviv will also be required to train IT experts and lawyers. The fact that a foreign state representative was babysitting the announcement made was a bit odd. Dear Parliament, A few years ago, President László Sólyom on Holocaust Memorial Day said, referring to Imre Kertész, that this absolute violation of the law, which has happened, confirms the law not only to the people who have suffered it, but also to the ban on universal humanity. Auschwitz could become a parable valid for all mankind, because in this story, good and evil are split sharply. There is no room for justification or explanation here, if we attempt to deny the foundation of our culture. What is the duty of the future generation? Maintaining the moral order in which Auschwitz and the genocide he symbolizes cannot be repeated. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is why we also believe that there is a place for Holocaust education in public education, a place for educating teachers. That is why we believe that there is always room for sensitivity in public education, which is why we voted in favour of the Socialists' relevant proposal on Auschwitz visits or Jobbik's proposal on cross-border visits. The explanation of the university, which was published by an instructor on the daily.hu, is also quite amazing: it refers to the anti-Semitism accusation of the university. I think that the intention may be good, but the instrument is brutally wrong, and it achieves the opposite goal. I think that maintaining the parable of the Holocaust is not part of the fight against anti-Semitism in itself, as the Holocaust is not merely a matter of the Jews, all of us, the cause of all mankind, all of us, all of Hungary. All I want to ask you is, while respecting university autonomy, is that you have soft accreditation licenses. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Whether the government is planning to take any steps in the portfolio or external aspects. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2015-06-15-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-15-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think you know as well as I do, Congressman, that the government has no say in what is being taught at certain universities in terms of subjects, which is a matter of the autonomy of universities. We are talking about the Pázmány, which is also an institution with a non-state maintainer, so here it is entirely less likely that the government, the Ministry, has any jurisdiction, competence over what the content of the individual objects should be. The Accreditation Committee is the one that accredits the majors, but it doesn't mean the subjects individually, it doesn't look at the course of the classes, it deals with the accreditation of full IT training, legal training and philosophy, and it also examines, in particular, the minimum conditions that must be met when establishing or maintaining a course, and if there is something missing from it, it doesn't accredit the course, but if there are the minimum conditions that the legislation provides, it will accredit them - neither the Ministry nor the Accreditation Committee with regard to higher education. The professional list with which the Ministry has a direct relationship and responsibility includes only the names of the specialists and the professional qualifications that can be obtained, and there is also a ministerial decree listing the training and output requirements issued by this regulation, namely that each person in each department should know what they are graduates of. Compared to that, any university can add a surplus. This was the decision of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, in which the government, the state, or the ministry have nothing to say about what to do, what to teach or not to teach. But what is important is that XX. Everyone should be aware of the horrors of the century, so the government made education not only about the Holocaust but also about the education of the crimes of communism part of the National Basic School, just as during the first Orbán government the Memorial Day of Holocaust Memorial Day and the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism was added to the commemorations of the public education institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Schiffer András in return. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, due to a lack of time, I would not go into the polemia of how correct it is or I think it is wrong to compare XX. The various tragedies of the century. However, the Hungarian Holocaust is our common destiny, who live here or whose ancestors lived here in the Carpathian Basin. Saying that my grandmother was taken to a death camp whose father died in the First World War as an officer of the Hungarian Royal Army, or the fate of the Jewish shopkeeper who was then taken to Recsk, or the destruction of 90 thousand Jews for the first time in half a year in Transcarpathia, then another 200,000 Hungarians were taken away by the invading Soviet troops; this Hungary, the people who live here, can understand. That is why it is important for the government to record that if there is a primary sovereignty issue, it is a memory policy, and neither country has any special powers in relation to the Hungarian memory policy. What I would like to note is that the tool that the university has chosen is harmful, counterproductive, and I think it would be important. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what the government is trying to tell us. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-176	Thank you, Congressman, Mr Parliament. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the most important thing is, if we can do our own interpretation of our own history, with this I fully agree, and there were so many literature from XX. about the century, or everyone has their own personal experiences or family memories, so that they can appreciate the historical steps or historical events of this often horrific, often uplifting century. Therefore, it is important that all subjects are clearly directly related to Hungarian history. You have also told your own family about the tragedy, and unfortunately, the tragedy of XX. In the first century, many similar family tragedies have been reported, who have been the victims of one or another dictatorial system, or many of them, as you mentioned, have been victims of both. This year, when the government announced a Gulág Memorial Year - the previous year was a Holocaust Memorial Year - it is especially important that we see and pay attention to how many people were on the Gulág, and those who had come back alive from Auschwitz or other death camps. It is also important to talk about these issues in public education, and it is important that the government, where it can, take steps to explore both dictatorships in these matters. But what kind of training does a university start? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the government has no jurisdiction in Hungary as regards the schedule. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Happy István, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. The opposition representatives are friends of brokers? Why did the opposition parties abandon the depositors? It's an address. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Oh, my God! Oh, come on.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-179	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Following the Kulcsár case, in 2015, another series of socialist financial frauds shook the Hungarian public. Based on official investigations, it seems likely that several brokerage firms have been suspected of being abused since the millennium. One of the brokerage companies linked to Gordon Bajnai successfully circumvented the control system, which was considered to be incomplete at the time, and seriously damaged small depositors and municipalities by tens of billions. Thanks to its rapid measures, the government was able to intervene effectively in the matter, the Parliament adopted a law whereby the entire assets of the brokerage companies' groups, its managers, owners, supervisory board members and the auditors concerned could be blocked and the assets placed under the lock could be used to compensate the injured. At the same time, in order to avoid similar financial abuses in the future, it would have been important to strengthen supervisory regulation, and therefore we have initiated a law that would have required a comprehensive supervision of investment firms every three years, like credit institutions, instead of five years. The law would have tightened the fine rules, the supervision could have imposed more fines, which would have strengthened the deterrent effect of fines. [[15.20]] However, the most important provision of the proposal would have been that the market surveillance procedure could be initiated not only in the event of detection but also in the event of suspicion, since it would be possible to detect market abuse as quickly and effectively as possible if supervision could intervene in time and initiate the procedure in the event of the slightest suspicion. This opportunity has now been deprived by the opposition of the supervising central bank, thus contributing practically as an accomplice to the activities of fraudulent brokers who ignore legislation. Based on the above, there is a suspicion that opposition parties, whether they come from the right or from the left, are friends of brokers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The Fidesz. It's just the Fidesz.]] I ask, therefore, Minister, why do you think the depositors have been abandoned by opposition parties, and whether there is any way that we can, however, protect depositors and alleviate the damage caused by opposition parties. Thank you for your answer. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What's up? Intercoms, information in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2015-06-15-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-06-15-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I must agree with the Member that, in order to protect the interests of depositors, much stricter and much more effective action on the part of supervision is needed than before. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Is it written? Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] After the broker scandals in recent months, it has become clear that this option needs to be changed and the MNB, the supervisory authority, should be strengthened in order to ensure that such abuses do not occur with regard to depositors. The government, recognising this, submitted its proposal in consultation with the central bank and asked for Parliament's approval. I would also like to remind you that a few weeks ago, opposition parties were still in chorus asking and demanding that we tighten up these laws. [[Dr. István Józsa: That is the case now.]] and change the content of the legislation in order to achieve stricter supervision of brokerage firms. They urged this amendment in competition with each other, which is why it was shocking and I can safely say that it is irresponsible to vote against these tightening laws in the parliamentary final vote, ignoring the real interests of the people. [[Dr. István Józsa: It wasn't just that!]] This means, in practice, that the situation which the Member has been referring to continues to exist, that, on the basis of the current options, supervision can only be intervened if it reveals a real event and real abuses are revealed. I think that the opposition parties have ignored the situations that could arise with financial institutions, thus risking the security of depositors. At the same time, the Government is committed to making the amendment, and we will therefore initiate the vote on those parts of the law which do not affect only two-thirds of the laws, but half of them, so that at least those parts that will allow for more stringent supervisory changes and behaviour than in the current situation can enter into force. [[Dr. István Józsa: Where is the supervision of the National Bank? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-182	Thank you, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman István Happy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-183	Weeks ago, opposition parties were loud from tightening up, and then they were very loud when the fact that they were still on the side of brokers turned out to be very loud. I've been listening on the radio to both Jobbik and MSZP and LMP. [[Anita Herring: Where's the money? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In the hold. Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It was a very, very weak explanation for [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The thing is, the things you guys gave me, and the way you guys are yelling, people still feel it. Several people in my constituency said that this was not what they expected of them to face people, face small investors, and simply let them down. [[Interjection: Do you have a constituency? Intercoms, noise.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The thing is, the things you guys gave me, and the way you guys are yelling, people still feel it. Several people in my constituency said that this was not what they expected of them to face people, face small investors, and simply let them down. (Interjection: Do you have a constituency? - Intercoms, noise. Turns out - yeah, I don't have a constituency - it turns out it's (the president bell rings) That you're on the side of the brokers against what you've said so far. You don't know why, but you're protecting the brokers against the little guys. It's not the first time that the socialists have known why, they have a lot of broker friends. [[Dr. István Józsa: That is not true!]] So far, Jobbik hasn't found that out, but according to this, the besties are full of broker friends. I think, Minister, that the law must be tightened up. [[Interjection.]] That's right. [[Intercoms, noise. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[Lajos Korózs: part of it is in Csaba Tarsoly's pocket and part is in Vienna.]] Dear Parliament, I have not even spoken to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Please control yourself. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Minister Mihály Varga is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-15-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Behind me, opposition representatives are talking about political bias and shouting, but in one word they have not yet told me what the political content was in amending this legislation. [[István Szávay: We told you a million times. Don't lie to me. Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] what was the political content, Mr honourable Member, because if we assume that it is in the interests of the people, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and, in case of suspicion, the supervision should have been able to act, then the amendment should have been approved. [[Intercoms, noise in the opposition benches.]] You didn't do that, quite simply... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-186	Thank you, Minister. Go on, Minister, feel free, I just wanted to let you know that you can't hear the word in the room. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-187	Thank you, Mr. President. So obviously, if you don't have such a professional statement, then we're the ones who might suspect it. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes, there is!]] we may suspect that you have and have political bias, the worse the situation, the better you intend to create. You don't care about people, you don't care about family savings, you're willing to sacrifice the security of depositors to make some kind of political roast. [[Intercoms, noise in the opposition benches.]] This is simply unacceptable. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-15-188	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who do you belong to? It's an address. [[Noise.]] Due to the urgent public mission of Prime Minister [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Mihály Varga has appointed Minister for National Economy to respond. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the person...
u2015-06-15-189	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-06-15-190	...or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer. Congresswoman has indicated that she accepts the person to whom she is responding. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-15-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Regardless of party status, we condemn those who use children today for political purposes, we could call them political pedophilia. These two words describe the growing phenomenon when politicians use kindergartens as organic decorations. There were times when they were taken to the government window initiation or to the district office to give lectures, there were times when politicians went to the kindergarten, to celebrate apples and their birthdays. You're reading a story, and I'm gonna say it again, and I quote, they're celebrating their own birthday with the kindergarten kids. Their intention was clear, as politicians post photos of the listed events themselves on their Facebook pages. Turns out the wallet's shutting down that he'd do anything about it. Last week, I wanted to interpel the Minister of the Interior, and it turned out that this matter was not a matter for them either, so I wanted to ask the Prime Minister today, who is responsible for the use of children for political purposes today, although, according to the Public Education Act, party political activity is indeed prohibited for everyone during the period during which the institution supervises children. The Institute also stresses in its analysis that the use of preschoolers for party policy purposes cannot under any circumstances be allowed, even the parental contribution cannot be obtained or granted. That is why I ask Minister who is involved in this issue if politicians continue to abuse Hungarian families and the children of Hungarian families. Who protects those working in the institution from having to comply with current political leaders in these situations? Who will protect our families, and who will protect our children? I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2015-06-15-192	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the legislation is clear, but it is on such a thin border that it is very difficult to judge correctly and accurately. When I think about how many times, as a Member of Parliament, I attended a kindergarten event where there was a transfer of some new investment, a new equipment or a newly acquired machine, I think I have done my job as a representative. The kindergarten management invited me on such an occasion, and I went, even though the kindergarteners themselves gave me a show at the event, and I watched it there as a representative. But I am also sure, Congresswoman, that there are also a number of Members in your group - I could say campaign videos, for example - who have been filming in kindergartens, among kindergartens. I did not consider this just and exclusively a political campaign event when kindergarteners were used for political purposes, so I can tell you that good taste is always the limit. [[15.30]] As a parent with four children, I can say that it bothers me that a politician goes into a kindergarten to bake that otherwise it's just a political appearance. But if you're there because you're aware of how kindergarten works, you're talking to kindergarten teachers, nannies, maybe you're looking at what kind of training the kids are taking, then I don't see this as any political activity you're aiming at. I can tell you, and I suggest to your fellow Members that you go to a kindergarten without violating the limits of good taste, and that no parent should feel that that politician has gone only to use my child for campaign purposes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-194	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-15-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I began my speech by saying that regardless of party standing. There's nothing wrong with going in as a politician because he wants to ask about the situation. But lately some Members have gone beyond that, good-looking Members have read stories in fairy tales [[Dóra Dúró: Oh, my God! They're reading stories!]] for the kids. I'm sorry, I just wanted to ask if the parents knew about this. [[Dóra Dúró: Yes, all parents have agreed to advance!]] Did the parents know about this? I find it outrageous. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right, they agreed in advance!]] That kindergarten politicians go to school [[Interview from the benches of Jobbik: Ildikó Lendvai, 2002!]] And instead of a kindergarten teacher, they tell the kids a story, or they go to the kindergarten and celebrate their own birthday, right-wing municipal representative in front of the kindergarten teachers and children. I think that if it is prohibited by the Public Education Act, then everyone, every politician, has an obligation to do so, and there is no way for politicians to settle for children who can't protect themselves and parents who can't protest. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-196	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-06-15-197	Mr President, Dear House, The debate between MSZP and Jobbik is important, but in the meantime, children should be dealt with in kindergarten. I can therefore say that, for its part, the government is committed to ensuring the necessary accommodation from September, when it becomes mandatory to provide kindergarten care. To this end, we have announced HUF 2.5 billion in preschool capacity-building applications, and we can give 64 municipalities the opportunity to do so. These capacities should be set up by the end of 2016 and the necessary investment will be carried out. By the way, let me inform Parliament that 321 494 kindergarten children made use of the kindergarten care during the education year 2014. From 2015-16 onwards, from September onwards, this number will increase by 15,000. The government is committed to providing this care to all children. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We heard a bedtime story! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-198	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Do not the right hand know what the left hand is doing? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. [[Dóra Dúró: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-15-199	Thank you for the speech. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The issue of language examination and language learning affects many people, many young people, and is very decisive for the future of young people, but Hungary is also lagging behind in this respect in an international comparison. If we look at the regulations that apply to this issue, we find that the National Basic Study Plan contains that by the end of the 12th grade, the level of secondary language examination is not attained by the knowledge that children learn in primary and secondary school. Only the two language schools have the possibility to reach the level of secondary language examination with the required amount of lessons in the curriculum. On the part of higher education, it is indicated that from 2020, i.e. five academic years from now, students and students will be required to enter universities with a secondary language exam. Therefore, NAT does not provide the necessary conditions to obtain the secondary language exam by students, but higher education is expected to enter the gates of universities and colleges. If we look at the current situation, we see that 65 percent of applicants have a language exam, so the rest of the students, admissionees, would fall out of this section, which clearly cannot be the goal of the Secretary of State or the Ministry. However, the lack of a language exam for tens of thousands of young people is also a barrier to the receipt of a diploma, with about 50,000 people who do not even have a language exam at graduation, so they cannot take over their degrees. The graduation program that has been launched here, Mr. Secretary of State, is extremely low-efficiency. Therefore, I ask whether they will change the NAT, whether they may increase the number of hours, or how they will see the solution to ensuring that the level of secondary language exam is reached by the end of the 12th grade. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-15-200	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-15-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, As far as teaching foreign languages in the public education system is concerned, you may know, Madam Congresswoman, because it was already mentioned in Parliament that the number of hours we teach students a foreign language is far above the European average. It is much higher than it is in EU countries, perhaps one of the highest of all the EU Member States, but it does not reach the level that we want students to reach or reach in other Western European countries. Therefore, the direction is not to increase the number of hours you mentioned earlier, but obviously to improve the quality of the lessons, to give young people better quality language lessons, since they can continue to travel by less hours in other countries. In fact, we have included a foreign language secondary language exam among the admission requirements, but we have given six years of preparation for this. Last year we adopted the relevant legislation, this decision, and should only be applied for the first time in 2020. So there are six years for everyone to prepare. And the requirements of the National Basic Training Plan and graduation exams have been adapted to exactly what is the requirement of secondary language examination. We are talking about a rather complex, multi-factor rating system, but we have come close to each other, so that the person who graduated should really have secondary language skills, so that they can also get into universities. I think our common goal is to have as many people as possible jump this level, and everyone knows that it is a great advantage to have secondary foreign language skills at 18 years of age. Therefore, either with professional programmes or with the support of the European Union for education for the next period, we must strive to ensure that these language education is as good as possible. We are also trying to create this by means of teaching materials, various tours, competitions and further training in a foreign language environment to encourage young people to learn languages, which will help them to have a secondary language exam by 2020. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Secretary of State, sending young people to various competitions and foreign language environments is an extremely good initiative, but this will not be comprehensive. Obviously, they can't get all the high school kids to do that. Therefore, a solution should be sought that allows everyone to reach the level of the secondary language exam. At present, this is not the case in NAT, and at present NAT is not capable of achieving this objective. Jobbik has and has many suggestions on this, for example, the introduction of small group education in language lessons would be a step that would make language learning more effective. But it is not only in the field of education that effective means can be sought. For example, the screening of subtitle films has succeeded in expanding foreign language skills in many countries, and there are also financial difficulties for many to obtain a language exam, so Jobbik would grant everyone a language exam free of charge at a secondary complex level. Please consider these suggestions as well. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-15-204	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We strive to ensure that if a person reaches his graduation at 18 years of age, he should have a recognized language exam, language skills, and the supporting document itself. Thus, a person can obtain this certificate of language knowledge for almost free, as he will also receive a secondary language exam with his diploma. As I have just said, the point is not to increase the number of hours, but to improve the quality of the lessons, to start training programmes and to move towards language teachers. It is rare to have legislation that has six to seven years of preparation. In this case, too, the government provided an opportunity to do so, precisely so that they would not be in a position to be in need of a graduation program in the last two years, who, as a condition for a diploma transfer, would not be able to obtain the language exam, and obviously by then it would be more difficult to obtain it. [[15.40]] The government wanted to help them, too. Innumerable free language education organised by former labour centres, others can participate, whether they do not have an employment relationship, especially so that the level of language skills can be improved at all levels. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-206	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I tried to give my speech the title - I'm afraid I'm not saying it's appropriate, but sad - that the cherry is still cooked this year? With a question mark, as last year farmers experienced that they could not count on the government and the agricultural government, the Fidesz government, because last year the purchase price of the cherry was extremely low. Then they were given the promise, let's say, that they could receive 40 forints per kilo of support, but if they process their own product. The sad news is that the number of farmers with processing capacity converging to zero among the sour-growing farmers is relatively small among the farmers, and that is why, since the reports are on a buying-in price of 60-70 forints this year as well, the sayings are, which is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State what is going to happen to the sorcerer this year. If this price of 60-70 HUF is true of the buying-in price, then what help can cherry farmers expect? If you want to make the same construction this year as last year, then I have the sad news that this is not for the producers, this is for the processors. Of course, we accept that processors should also be supported, so this would not be a question against processors, but in the interests of farmers, I must therefore ask the professional wallet what can be expected of sour farmers this year. I cannot judge the price of 60-70 forints, but we are very, very curious to know what the wallet can encourage at least the sour farmers in this case. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, cherry fruit accounts for nearly 10 percent of the total fruit production, with a production area of about 15 thousand hectares in Hungary. In 2014, it was an extremely good crop, since 85 thousand tons of sour cherries were produced in Hungary. Of these 85,000 tons, 68,000 tons of sour cherries were exported. Sixty percent of this was sold freshly and 10 percent in frozen form, mainly on the German market. 70 percent of freshly exported goods were also placed on the German market, mainly for use in the canning industry. The Russian export market share of food sour cherries, which increased steadily in previous years, was close to 41 percent in 2014. In 2015, due to the weather, the cherry crop is expected to be less than a year earlier. On the basis of a professional consensus, this year's cherry crop develops at around 65,000 tons, which may be further reduced in recent days by hail. The Hungarian cherry sector, thanks to the essentially single channel market, is unfortunately in a price-acceptable situation. Neither the producer nor the processor has any significant influence on the price of the finished product already determined by the German wholesalers at the beginning of the year. The current Russian embargo is a tension on the market for dietary sour cherries. Due to the lack of alternative markets, this quantity may also appear in part on the market for industrial sour cherries. In view of this, the management of the situation can only be envisaged on a market basis, in which Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. can play a fundamental role. According to our information, the trading house is active in the market in order to find new markets for sour cherries. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, in return. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-211	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact that I was not reassured, Mr. Secretary, is less disturbing, and I could live with that thought, but it did not calm the sour farmers with that answer either. I'm telling you, last year you were faced with a lack of support from the agricultural government. What you have said is not going to help much this year either, because, as I said, last year's support also hit the processors first and foremost, it stayed there. I am aware of the numbers, Mr Secretary of State, because Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where I come from, is one of the largest cherry-producing areas or regions. Unfortunately, I am also aware, as I mentioned in my previous speech, of the fact that the ice had indeed beaten a lot of cherries there. At the same time, farmers still expect a substantial help, because again, this price of 60-70 forints will result in a very large number of cherry trees being pulled out last year, and the orchards and plantations being forced to be eliminated, and now, if they are faced with this again this year, this will not be a solution. The National Trade House would be a good line, but, Mr. Secretary, you are on the government, you are helping farmers, you are waiting for a solution from this point of view. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports you in everything that can make farmers easier, I promise you that. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-15-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must now strongly reject it because it has been said twice that we have not helped the cherry producers. We did 800 million HUF intervention last year in the cherry market, in the only possible form, by helping to pull this market out, by helping all producers who sold their cherry for cooking, get a fixed price and be safe. So there's no such thing as leaving the farmers alone. However, it should be said that measures such as last year, which lead to an increase in stocks, are currently not on the agenda. It is only possible to take measures which in no way increase the amount of stocks that are unsold, which will be charged on the market and which will endanger the further fall in prices. This can be imagined primarily by concentration of supply and by applying uniform assessment criteria. In order to address the cherry market situation, to present transparent sectoral processes and to increase confidence between operators in the sector, we will have ongoing consultations with representatives of producers, processors and German customers. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-214	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Where is the national interest? It's an address. Prime Minister Mihály Varga appointed Minister for National Economy as a response to his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-06-15-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given that I would like to ask you about Prime Minister's words just in case, I can only get an answer from him. Thank you very much. [[Michael Varga is leaving the room.]]
u2015-06-15-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question with the title "The Urítő". I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-15-217	Dear Secretary of State, In 2011 you...
u2015-06-15-218	I'm sorry, Congresswoman, but I didn't realize that Minister had left the courtroom. So Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister herself for an answer. [[Nándor Gúr interrupts: I'll see. He's outside.]]
u2015-06-15-219	I'll take it, thank you very much. I just need the watch back.
u2015-06-15-220	You're reinstated, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-221	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In 2011, you felt something about people's problems, the tensions in society. The LMP then agreed by far with their initiative that the salary of the President of the Central Bank should be reduced from HUF 8 million a month to HUF 2 million, and that the monthly salary of state managers should be maximized. In 2012, with reference to the end of the economic crisis and the independence of the central bank, the MNB abolished the ceiling of two million. But in recent years, poverty has increased in Hungary, more and more people are living below the minimum wage, the minimum wage is HUF 67 thousand, the public wage does not even reach the minimum wage, and society is infinitely fragmented to few rich and many millions of poor. Now it turns out the MNB's executive directors, including the wife of Attorney General Péter Polt, receive 5 million a month. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] They make 225,000 forints a day. This is another harsh example of the central bank urinating from public money. I ask Mr. Secretary of State first: do you find it appropriate, under Hungarian circumstances, to pay the top-level management of the central bank for HUF 5 million a month, while teachers, social and health professionals, public service workers, and may I add that they work for hunger? Do you intend to restore the government's payment ceiling at the MNB? And I would also like to ask you that the wife of Attorney General Péter Polt has now doubled her salary to 5 million a month, do you think that this influence the Attorney General's assessment of complaints such as what the LMP did to the MNB due to misrepresentation? Thank you for your attention. [[15.50]]
u2015-06-15-222	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-06-15-223	Thank you very much. In front of you, Mr András Schiffer did not accept the Minister twice as a responder because he said that NGM, the Minister of National Economy, did not have the power to ask what he wanted to ask. If this was true for Andras Schiffer, then it is even more true for you: do you not really think that you should ask the Minister of National Economy about the regulation or summation of Magyar Nemzeti Bank's management income, and then - how should I put it? - I find it unworthy of you to bring the wife of the Attorney General here and ask me whether the Attorney General will make his decision on the salary of his wife at the National Bank of Hungary. [[István Tukacs: He is impolitely tall. Dr. István Józsa: Return to 98 percent!]] I'll tell you the truth, this is an unfair question from the LMP, not to mention you. I would like to add and say that you obviously know that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank carries out its activities independently of the government. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] - this is the 2013 CXXXIX. It is required by law, and I ask that we respect that, both you and those opposition representatives who laugh and speak behind me. As far as income is concerned, the income of the directors of the central bank is adjusted to the average level of wages of the domestic banking sector. Of course, that can be criticized for you or anyone else. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: This is public money!]] It's always a grateful opposition issue that we think someone else's salary is high. You might have an opinion on that, it's real. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The salary of the President and Vice-Presidents of the MNB and the members of the Monetary Council is a quarter-fifth of the salary of similar players in the banking sector. Judge yourself that this is much or little - good? Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-224	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder. I give you the floor.
u2015-06-15-225	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, I would like to start by saying that this is public money in the case of the Hungarian National Bank. When you reduced András Simor's salary from 8 million to 2 million in 2011 [[Zoltán Lukács: That was also a scandal!]] Then it didn't matter that the central bank was independent. It's true he wasn't close to Fidesz. Over the past years, the MNB has made a huge profit from the exchange rate change, which it has yet to realise when the currency translation took place, as it was made at the market rate. There the Hungarian National Bank won 134 billion. And this huge profit was not paid into the budget by the MNB - even though it is on the budget if it has a loss - so in the last year it has had the opportunity to buy real estate, to give its foundations huge money, and to pay huge salaries to executives. In today's Hungarian circumstances, it is not permissible for the Hungarian National Bank to pay such huge amounts of public money. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-226	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-06-15-227	Thank you very much. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I regret that you did not respond to what I just said about the salary of the President, Vice-President and members of the Monetary Council in relation to the banking sector: a quarter to a fifth. Why didn't you react to the fact that you're not saying much or not saying much? By the way, the National Bank of Hungary is pleased to hear your speech, since, as I understand it correctly, you praised your activities in a series of ways to generate profits. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] I'm sure you've increased your fortune. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] He forgot to say that he was involved in starting the growth of the Hungarian economy, invented the growth loan and pumped hundreds of billions of forints into the economy instead of commercial banks, thereby contributing to the start-up of the country's economy. As far as the rest is concerned, it must be seen that in other countries - England, Germany, Italy, Austria - central banks carry out the same activity. [[Noise.]] Thank you, Mr Schiffer, for your further yelling during my speech. Now I'm getting used to this new LMP style and Schiffer style. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-228	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 15:54. We've reached the end of the immediate questions. Dear Parliament, The political debate on the state of health in Hungary followed, which was initiated by József Tobias and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/4855. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr László Földi to explain the course of the political debate.
u2015-06-15-229	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement by representatives of the Government will take place for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. Further speeches are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]]
u2015-06-15-230	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches should be included in the timeframe, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck to explain the time frame.
u2015-06-15-231	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided as follows. The Fidesz Group has 83 minutes, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group, and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2015-06-15-232	Thank you, notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr. Gábor Sombor, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-15-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the opportunity to talk about Hungarian health in this sphere in Parliament, because I think we have something to talk about, and I trust that at the end of the debate day we will agree on a lot of things, and we will see the directions in the same way as we do what we have to do. I would like to anticipate that I would like to make a professional contribution. There will be data that will refer back to previous years, there will be trends that we need to know in order to assess the situation. These will show professional aspects. I would also like to say that from what negotiating position or from what investigative position we stand for the situation of Hungarian health care as a title or as a subject, it is perhaps best to receive problems or answers from reports that objectively judge Hungary and Hungarian relations, which are independent of us. The main findings and evaluation circle of the OECD Government Panorama Health Chapter have recently been published, which, I believe, is a very good approach to the progress, the results and the problems we have experienced in Hungary. [[16.00]] Perhaps I would like to begin with a surprising conclusion, which is point 1 of the OECD report, about the extent to which citizens are satisfied with the health system in a given country. During the period under investigation, this period 2007-2013, i.e. spanning several government cycles, results in an increase in satisfaction rates from 54 per cent to 60 per cent. However, the report adds that this is still below the level of satisfaction of many neighbouring countries. So there is a positive trend towards the development of satisfaction, as opposed to all the countries in Central and Eastern Europe, where overall satisfaction has deteriorated. The 2013 figures are consistent with countries with similar development, better than Poland and Slovakia, slightly worse than those of the Czech Republic. According to another European survey, an increasing proportion of respondents consider the quality of health care to be good, 47 percent in 2013, compared with 28 percent in 2009. Why did I start with this data? In the meantime, we feel that public opinion on health and health care is more negative than this, which is partly due to the fact that these satisfaction indicators do not represent progress for health workers, while patients in public health, when talking in general, tend to raise negative rather than positive elements. If you ask them individually, it's better than that. What are the tensions that indicate in Hungarian health care that there is much to do and what are these? I would like to divide into three parts the causes of the problems, which are also reflected in the OECD report. One is the issue of health expenditure, which usually triggers many debates. Another important issue is the problem of human resources, not only in Hungary, but also in Eastern-Central Europe, all of the Baltic states and the former post-communist countries. I would like to talk about the way operating conditions and investments in operations have changed over the past period and the trends that have been seen. In terms of funding, the OECD report states that in Hungary health expenditure accounted for 8 per cent of GDP, which is significantly below the OECD average, which is 9.3 per cent, but is the same as in Slovakia and is higher than in the Czech Republic and Poland. There's a lot that doesn't show up in this picture. However, there is also a second comment, which indicates part of our problems and perhaps confirms that only 62 percent of all health expenditures were financed by public funds. So when we say to what extent public spending goes to health, we also find lower than the OECD average. There is also a positive remark, which says that, at the same time, according to the latest WHO data, the public expenditure rate has already increased by 1 percentage point in the last year. In part, the low proportion of public expenditure is explained by the fact that a significant proportion of pharmaceutical expenditure, financed by direct payments from the general public, is accounted for at world market prices, whereas healthcare workers' wages, which have not yet caught up with international standards, are not yet included in the average, are entirely among public expenditure and are not directly financed by the general public. Thus, the depressed wage level leads to a lower level of public expenditure in relative terms. With regard to financing, we have reviewed the data of the past period, which shows the following. In Hungary, public spending on health has not reached 5 percent in the last 10 years, which is also below the OECD and EU average. The reason for this was as follows. Looking at real value, the following differences are seen in different years: the largest decline was in 2007, when public funding fell by 14.5 percent in real terms and achieved a positive in real terms by 2013 which was a 2.2 percent increase. In 2014, this increased to 4.4 percent. This means that we have not yet achieved, in real terms, the financing value from which we started and which has been low before. With regard to curative-preventive benefits, despite the increase in the amount of HUF 694 billion in the last 10 years to nearly HUF 1 000 billion, HUF 980 billion, it shows that significant efforts have been made in recent years in order to get back to the level from which we fell. This increase in real value and percentage is the number mentioned above. The next important question is how we have been able to move forward with regard to investments. This is also a very positive step in the OECD report that Hungary has made very significant progress over the past period in terms of medical infrastructure and machine-mechanism purchases, with an order of up to HUF 500 billion. It should also be mentioned here that this was also a process-by-cycle development, which has taken place over the last few years. However, when we look at 500 billion forints in health care, and when there are renovations and investments almost everywhere in the country, we do not see that, so to say, satisfaction would improve at the same time, some data are worth mentioning in this regard. We looked at the 500 billion HUF scale that entered the system, how it was related to previous years. [[16.10]] Since the change of regime in 2008, until the start of the development cycle, the total cost was only HUF 200 billion for the system, renovations and reconstruction. A new hospital has not been built since the 1980s, and it is only the Honvéd Hospital that, after such a semi-finished state, has been given the opportunity to complete, so it is an important question of how this process can continue in the next period. Another problem is that the central region benefited very little from this source, and therefore there has been little investment in hospitals in Budapest, Pest county. Under the conditions of working conditions and care, there is a great difference between the health institutions in the rural and the capital of Pest county, which is positive for rural investments, but requires considerable efforts in Budapest and Pest counties, which is why it is important for the government to decide to build a new hospital in Budapest and the complete reconstruction of the Heim Pál Hospital will also take place in the framework of child emergency care. I would like to give you some information, which is perhaps important, as infrastructure investments have been used for more than HUF 320 billion, machine-measuring is used for more than HUF 100 billion, 40 new outpatient clinics have been built, 23 new outpatient clinics in the small area, with HUF 50 billion in support of the development of emergency care, the modernisation of emergency stations, the construction of 22 new rescue stations. There was an opportunity to replace new ambulances, since there was a time when there was no exchange of ambulances for two years; the development of emergency child care and the largest proportion of development resources for infrastructure and the development of oncological care. An important element is the development of the IT system, because without it we cannot talk about modern health care. The establishment of this integrated system gives us the hope that care can be organised much more efficiently. It is a great help within the framework of the Environment and Energy Operational Programme - KEOP - to ensure that the institutions in Budapest and the central region are also provided with resources. It can also be said that universities have been given priority development opportunities. Accordingly, there were several tens of billions of HUF developments in each university. Over the coming period, development directions will continue to aim to allocate resources to those areas where assistance should be given the most. Accordingly, it was decided that, for example, the renovation of nursing homes would cost HUF 15 billion, and that the government would also invest in so-called skill labs for university training and specialist training. It can therefore be said that there will still be opportunities for infrastructure investments in the next EFOP application cycle, of course not as much as before, but this will give us a very strong impetus and give us our healthcare system. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]] The third finding of the OECD was that the low level of public expenditure is essentially composed of two elements. One is that the wages of health care workers are low and the other is that the Hungarian state provides lower funding in terms of rates of hospital care. Today, we may see the biggest problem in terms of human resources, and here are the greatest tensions. Allow me to give you some details for the debate. Today in Hungary 32 814 doctors can practice medicine, 6195 dentists, 7591 pharmacists, 97 372 health professionals, a total of 133,000. In the health sector, this means 17,000 doctors, 68,000 workers and 39 900 other health workers, including the economic and technical area, means 125 thousand. What is a problem, and what we have to deal with in any way, is the number of vacant posts. This currently represents 1917 medical and 4088 professional posts. It is an interesting comparison that in 2001, 2002 it was 2700 and 2600 for doctors, which indicates that this problem has not just begun, and actually extends back even to the period before the change of regime, where the number of vacant medical posts is close to two thousand. This is less apparent with regard to the workers, but there is also a significant problem. It is worth comparing, and it is also compared by various international organisations, such as WHO, how the number of doctors in Europe is developing. In this respect, Hungary belongs to the middle field, in the number of doctors, in the number of nurses we are back, and there the number of nurses per recipient is lower. If you are required in the debate, I will, of course, give you the exact details of this. In the European Union, there are 8 practitioners for thousands of people, and in Hungary the ratio is 6.3. For doctors, the European average is 3.4, in Hungary the ratio is 3.1. Basic healthcare is an important element of the health system, the importance of which has been emphasised here several times in Parliament's debate. The number of general medical practices is 6617, of which the number of unfilled practices is 284, which the government and the governments are trying to remedy with great effort. The main problem is the composition of the chorus, since now nearly one third of all GPs and GPs are over the age of 60, and their replacement requires very serious efforts. This is what the basic supply law currently under discussion is trying to address and the measures existing in it. [[16.20]] Number of protection zones 5042 and number of unfilled zones 345. In general, so-called migration data in the Eastern Central European countries give some indication of trends. I would also like to inform you of these data. In 2014, 948 doctors, 234 dentists, 88 pharmacists, 493 nurses asked for a certificate to work abroad, which was 1943. Since 2012, there has been virtually a minimal reduction and stagnation, probably thanks to the residency scholarship programme launched in 2012, which has been extended this year, so that more than 40 percent more residents can receive this additional benefit, and in the future not only during their residency period, but also as specialists. If we compare this with the neighbouring countries around us, we can see the following comparison. If we refer to the number of doctors applying for the official certificate to a million inhabitants, the worst situation in Poland is 236, with nearly 10,000 doctors thinking about leaving. In Romania it is 2,200 people, 110 people; in Hungary it is 96.2 with the number 948, which I say again, it seems to stop after an increase, but this shows stagnation rather than a reversal of the trend, although we are very confident that this trend will improve further in the future. The biggest tensions are in relation to wages. I'd like to give you some information. Currently, the average basic salary of doctors in Hungary is HUF 326,000, their average salary is HUF 463,000, the average salary of health professionals is HUF 151 thousand, and their average salary is HUF 207 thousand. Non-professionals, but health professionals earn 138 thousand forints and 178 thousand forints. It can be concluded that the national average is below the average salary of health professionals, with 90 per cent of the national average, representing 237 thousand forints, 78 per cent of the average salary of other health and health professionals. And what's been going on with this lately? We have examined how wages have changed over the past ten years, and we are looking at the following. Between 2006 and 2010, average earnings decreased by 13 percent in real terms, and increased by 11.4 percent between 2010 and 13 percent. The problem is that they didn't get back to 100 percent in real terms, so here, despite serious efforts, the lag is very serious. This is also seen in the international comparison, in which Hungary is almost everywhere in terms of the incomes of health workers. This is a particularly important issue because, in the meantime, various Western European organisations, governments are preparing or conducting programmes, organizing health care workers... - thanks to the excellence of Hungarian training, their knowledge also corresponds to the quality of Western European work, which is why they are systematically trying to attract them to work abroad. Once again, this process is still at a level where the trend can be stopped and reversed, but there is a very serious competitive disadvantage for the country because wages are so low. But wage measures in recent years have resulted in an average wage increase of 15 per cent, with further steps in the 2016 budget, where the source of mobile wages is included in the budget proposal, but further steps need to be taken to keep our workers and doctors in the coming years, as we see that not only in Hungary, but also in other countries, these earnings are even more problematic. I would like to return to the OECD report, which makes further findings, and this is more of a professional nature, since they have compared different countries, including the Hungarian health system, and they find, on the basis of objective data, that it is too hospital-centric, and that most of the expenditure is, for example, drugs, which raise questions about its cost-effectiveness. The issue of hospital funding also represents serious tensions in the country, as despite the fact that the number of hospital beds increased by 15 thousand between 2006 and 2007 and reached 42 249, which is currently funded by 2012, however, we find that doctor-patient meetings and the number of patients in a wide range of institutions is not decreasing, but increasing. Thus, a smaller structure is not only subject to falling but also to greater burden. This means that the idea and the strategy of the government to transfer the definitive care to the scenes closer to the place of residence and, in particular, to the basic supply system is the same as international trends and evidence. To this end, in the last three years, the amount spent on basic health care has increased by 30 percent in the central budget, and the new Basic Supply Act also contains provisions that aim to strengthen both economic and professionally the system of general health care and the protective system and to make it able to meet these challenges so that they are able to provide defined care to patients as much as possible. [[16.30]] The same conclusion in the OECD report is that this hospital focus can be reduced, for example, by increasing the proportion of overnight surgery, which is important not only in terms of cost-effectiveness, but also in order to reduce waiting lists. Here Hungary has made significant progress, as the proportion of one-day surgery has increased significantly, and this shows an increase of 250 percent. In the latest Government of Financing Regulation, institutions have been granted a volume limit for overnight benefits, so this benefit can continue to develop. Ladies and gentlemen, The summary findings of the OECD report show us that, like many OECD countries, the health care system in Hungary can be enhanced by increasing access to medical care outside of the hospital.Since 2010, the Hungarian government has made significant investments to improve access to care for the rural population, for example by setting up outpatient care centres in 20 rural areas, but in 2013 a relatively large part of the Hungarian population reported that due to its geographical distance from services, it is difficult to meet their medical needs. Further measures are proposed to ensure that all citizens of Hungary have access to the necessary care regardless of their place of residence and solvency, and the social security system in this regard is a good basis, which needs to be strengthened. It notes that the results show that the satisfaction of the population with the health system has increased in Hungary in recent years, but it is still below the average of many neighbouring countries and OECD countries. So I think that this report is based on objective and acceptable experience and facts, which I think we know and accept, which shows all the results, the aspirations, the efforts that the various governments have made in this matter. However, it is also shown that, both in terms of public expenditure and in terms of pay, these steps have not yet been sufficient to catch up with the average, and that there is also tension and dissatisfaction among health workers, that this pay situation is not acceptable to them, and that action must be taken as soon as possible in this area, I repeat: despite the constant and positive decisions that have been made in this respect. It is very important that on the hospital-centricity expressed in the report, which is the largest item in Hungarian health insurance funding in terms of cost, the government and the country take all steps that we can take to improve outpatient care and basic care in the area of residential care. Of course, I left the public health-related steps to the end, as today we find perhaps the most positive elements in the assessment of Hungary's healthcare system and health system in the field of public health. After all, international comparisons have found such good practices and good initiatives as the WHO, which included, for example, the protective cervical screening programme in the European so-called best practice system, the law on the protection of non-smokers or the special tax on trans-fat and unhealthy foods, which have been classified as being followed and pursued. Accordingly, the public health strategy 2014-20 also set these goals to be met, bringing care as close as possible to the disadvantaged population as possible with new systems and new models to increase the number of years of life spent in health, as life expectancy has increased significantly in Hungary, but is still below expected and from what we want to achieve. I therefore hope that I have been able to provide some useful information to my fellow Members for the debate, and I wish that we could have a meaningful and forward-looking four hours behind us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-234	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mrs Bene Ildikó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-15-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, When we are talking about the health situation today, it is absolutely certain that we should look at the processes in a broader perspective, and, as Mr Secretary of State has predicted in his expo, we are not talking about one or two years of problems, but we are talking about problems of at least 25 years. I would like to focus primarily on the current situation and the tasks of the coming period, and we can say that today in Hungary the human resources crisis, the human resources crisis resulting from the emigration of doctors and workers, the infrastructure and financing situation of the system, and unfortunately the lower public health indicators than the European average, are the biggest problems. At the beginning of the 2000s, Lithuania first drew attention to the shortage of health professionals, and in 2004 the first research results that dealt with worrying medical migration were published in Hungary, but steps and measures to reverse the trend were taken from 2010. A residency support programme has been introduced, which has offered the possibility for candidates for specialist specialists and candidates for specialist medicine in the hospital, in the field of clinical medicine, and this has resulted in a reduction in the number of applicants for official certificates for work abroad from 2013, albeit in a small and moderate manner. 2,500 young colleagues have applied to the programme so far, so many are sure to stay home, and it is a pleasure that more people have applied in 2015 than ever before. In the next year's budget, there is also an additional source of assurance for young specialists that they can still receive a similar level of support to the residency grant after obtaining the exam. It is important that the vocational training system has become simpler, more logical and more transparent, and that the employment of the candidates participating in residency training will be centrally achieved from 1 July 2015 and their salary and remuneration will be provided by the Health Records and Training Centre. The stabilisation of the economic situation created the first small steps in the area of health sector wage development, and health was the first area where the government launched a wage increase programme.In 2012 and 13, in two steps, 95 thousand health workers received wage increases, and this 2016 budget allows these wage increases to be basically leased. Everyone who works in healthcare can say that this is a very serious and legitimate request for workers and, above all, for those who work by the bed, because this will be the basis for on-call and standby fees. [[16.40]] I would like to stress that these wage measures were covered and are currently covered in the budget. The Government considers it a priority to improve basic care and, in this context, the discussion of a separate bill has started recently. In 2014, HUF 10 billion of additional funding was provided to increase indicator-based performance funding, a practice-shifting programme, support for new practices and establishment, and support for practical cooperation, on-call and dental care and protective care. As of January 1, 2015, GP practices will receive a monthly allowance of HUF 130,000, but in the 2016 budget there is another HUF 10 billion to improve the basic supply. By modernising hospitals and clinics, working conditions are improving, as the biggest health improvements have been made since the system changes. Of course, we also know that continuing wage developments in all areas of health is a legitimate expectation. In addition to moral and professional recognition, it is necessary to increase material appreciation, and I believe that the current situation has been properly presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State. Today, in the area of health, about 500 billion are being developed, which aims to improve decades of infrastructure and asset shortages. Urgent and oncological care, the development of children's patients, the care of premature babies are of particular importance, but also the development that helps structure change. Significant investments are being made in the rehabilitation field, and along a well-thought-out construction, either early, late, or outpatient rehabilitation is currently awaiting a complex development. There have also been very serious developments in the area of emergency services: since 2010, the vehicle park has expanded with 300 new ambulances, 22 new rescue stations have been built and 60 rescue stations have been upgraded and the rescue management system has been renewed. The success of joining Eurotransplant is a milestone in the history of Hungarian transplants. As of 1 March 2015, the health background institution system was reorganized and the number of background institutions decreased. The State Health Care Centre focuses on hospital maintenance functions, OEP's task has been expanded with capacity management and care organisation tasks, and under the professional management of the OTH, there are epidemiological, public health and health development tasks, such as monitoring and coordination. At the beginning of the year, county health coordination committees were established. I think it is very important that, on the ground, knowing the professional characteristics, the special needs of care, professional discussions are carried out so that patient care can work more effectively, as these professionals are best aware of the structure of health care in the given county, the region, real capacities and supply needs. Economic governance areas have also been established which are responsible for promoting balanced management. The development of hospital debt stocks is also a decade-old problem. In 2015, HUF 60 billion was allocated to the health sector, which was decided by the government. I would like to say that, in recent years, there has been a regular sweep of the register, or additional funding for hospitals in other areas, partly to reduce debts, partly to reduce waiting lists, and many times have my fellow Members, primarily from the opposition benches, said that this 60 billion is not enough. This may be considered little and can be criticized, but I think it was the first time that a significant amount of money was allocated specifically for debt settlement in the previous year, targeted in the budget and strapped to the budget. I would also like to note that, in contrast to previous practices, there is a continuous, regular and public hospital debt monitoring, and the reform of the supply system is aimed at providing us with data and information that can provide us with knowledge of the actual operating costs, because without it an efficient and flexible system cannot be operated. There is currently insufficient coordination between different areas and different levels of care, and this is clearly at the expense of efficiency. I believe that these county conciliation forums can help a great deal. There is a need for incentives, a need for continuous monitoring to measure the effectiveness of the healthcare system and correct it on the basis of information. This is the only way to establish a series of correct policy and financial decisions. Here I would like to highlight the programmes to reduce waiting lists, the increase in the scope of TV-free interventions, and also the 50 percent reduction in mortality due to acute cardiac events in Hungary. So we have results, but we have to face the fact that, unfortunately, our health indicators are one of the worst in Europe. It is also welcome that the average life expectancy has increased, but we are lagging behind the European average for both sexes. There is a faster population loss and we have a lot of work to do - as the Secretary of State said - in the area of public health. Among the causes of mortality are cardiovascular diseases and cancers, and the government's public health strategy aims are to increase the life expectancy at birth by two years by 2020, to increase the individual and social value of physical and mental health, to promote health awareness of individual responsibility and to reduce territorial health inequalities and differences in life expectancy at birth. We can say that we have an exemplary and internationally recognised vaccination system, which has been extended since 2014 by introducing a mandatory HPV vaccine. Organized breast screening programmes, cervical screening, are available free of charge for women aged 25-65, but we also have to face the fact that the willingness to participate is still low. In cervical cancer, 400 women are lost every year, and the vast majority of them belong to young people, so that if this disease is discovered on time, it can be cured at 100% - basic care plays a huge role, the protective network plays a very important role. In fact, pilot programs have started in terms of colon screening, which is gradually growing in more counties, but I think that the national introduction will be a very important step forward. Life expectancy, health promotion programmes, the development of public health services, the development of the population's health culture and the wider availability of access are essential to increase life expectancy, health years. I think we should be proud of the Non-Smoker Protection Act and also of the fact that we have started everyday physical education. And it is true that we still have difficulties here, and it is true that we cannot always fully achieve it, but I believe that if more and more people are playing sports and we are increasingly able to encourage our children to become part of their lives on a regular and daily basis, then we can confidently trust that our public health indicators will improve in substance. The public health product tax was introduced, and we were among the first countries in Europe to take action against the consumption of trans fatty acids, and we were the third state in Europe where we minimized this harmful ingredient in food. They do great work for health development firms, and it is very important that with their work they get to the smallest settlements, the most disadvantaged people, work very closely with hospitals, general practitioners, patrons, local governments and civil society organisations. In order for the work started to continue, it is essential to strengthen basic care, to increase basic care services with a preventive focus, to continue health prevention programmes, screening programmes and to increase willingness to participate and health awareness. During the negotiation of the Basic Supply Act, we talked a lot about this with our fellow Members. We know that investment in prevention can not take place immediately, but after years, to achieve the goals of hope, which we set out in the 2014-20 programme for the Healthy Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we will all agree at the end of the debate that our health care is facing a great deal of problems, that there is a great deal of work to be done to achieve meaningful results and that a predictable, stable public health system should work. [[16.50]] Changing attitudes is very important and it is very important to develop and strengthen a public health approach. I very much hope that we will have a good professional debate now, and I think that we will continue to do so later. One thing, I think, is that we, the people involved in politics, must also pay attention, and that today, in Hungarian health care, there are very high-quality professionals, whether we look at doctors or professionals, and anyone who works together in this healthcare system for each other, for the betterment of patients. And I think that this is a very serious trust relationship, that trust relationship must be maintained, maintained. So I very much hope that we can do the debate that we are having in a very serious, professional and human way, so that this health is better; that we can represent this health together, not for a political cycle, but for the years to come. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-236	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-237	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to say why we initiated this debate and why we did not. We have initiated this debate because health has reached the final limit of its performance. Healthcare workers have declared that they have no more. They told me their problems, from low wages to emigration to hospital funding. They told each other in a surprising unity, and this is the first time they've ever found each other, even though they've been legendally divided. The president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, István Éger, took the liberty of writing a letter to the Prime Minister, which, let's face it, is not small in his case, the warrior chamber president has been silent about the health situation for years. If he is writing a letter to the Prime Minister with such unheard-of courage, then there is a problem. And don't take what I just said as a picnic, the problem is big. Therefore, we initiated the debate day not to play a good political give-and-take - we are good at this, so we are doing this - but because we want to find out what the government's health policy is, how it wants to solve these problems. We want to find out by making suggestions. But if the end of this debate day is that as a conversation between the deaf again, you will tell us how many results there are, we will tell you how much trouble there is, and as we have done well, we will go home, and that would be the biggest mistake. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. If there is an opportunity in the debate, tell us when was the last time you had the opportunity to host a opposition politician at any professional meeting. I don't know about that. I ask this - and not as a personal offense, let there be no misunderstanding, I can tolerate the absence of these occasions - because we believe that there should be an agreement between the professional forces, the political forces, on where we are going. At present, there is no such agreement. There is no kind of agreement that does not lead the healthcare chariot in a different direction every four years or every two years; there is no treatment of health as a national issue, which would include at least a medium-term agreement on what should happen. I think that's a crazy mistake. I think it is a big mistake, because Mr. Secretary of State Szócska, your predecessor, as an eel, has always missed out on very uncomfortable matters and issues, but we have not been able to find any evidence that there is some kind of coherent and coherent health concept, in which at least the actors agree. Therefore, honourable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I would consider the outcome of this debate to be at least a statement from the government that they are willing to talk - now publicly and collectively - about where this profession should go. I know that there may also be an answer to the fact that, of course, there are discussions with the profession. But what kind of consultation is it - and I have a concrete example of this - that, if necessary, in private, and in private - that you have to reply to an e-mail within three hours and give a professional opinion on a particular matter. No way, this isn't a negotiation, this is what it looks like! Therefore, first of all, I say that we should have an agreement on health, not that we are trying to come up with different concepts. I claim that the government does not have a health policy, because the only document that can be found now is the programme "Healthy Hungary 2014-2020," some of which have been changed verbally by the government itself after its publication. It's not true that he wants some sort of small-region organization in hospitals - that's what it says. Then Mr. Secretary of State's environment, OEP officials say no, we don't want county. I can't do this. And I'm not just saying that they work under unfair pay conditions by workers and doctors, that there is an unworthy system of gratuity, and that this whole situation is unworthy, but I'm saying that there is no idea, at least common, where the health care itself should go. If you're looking for visions, then I'm saying that it would be good to have a patient-minded health care, in which the patient is a partner and not a subordinate in this system, you know what he's entitled to, you know what he's getting, you know what he's up to, and you don't treat him like a client in the worst offices. Of course, this requires satisfied doctors, workers and stable institutions, at least in a relatively stable situation. There is no way to avoid the question that the Secretary of State has avoided, by the way, what is the situation with half-free healthcare now. The national risk community seems to be operating, health care is free, everyone actually knows it's not. And somehow we don't want to answer, I don't hear, and I don't read things about what's going on, what's going on with this whole system. Because if we know that's not true, then let's not claim something that doesn't cover reality. Dear House, What I want to talk about is money. So underfunded is the source of all trouble. Bene Ildikó knows that we do not have personal conflicts, and we have never, but I must ask you, Madam Congresswoman, if he considers it a factor to be appreciated in your case that he is now able to do so, why, in the case of our government, this was not a factor worthy of appreciation, why we have been portrayed as evil and someone who does not want the benefit of health care, when you are now asking for your appreciation for the fact that he is now doing so well. In a situation where we see all kinds of unnecessary prestige investments in the budget, and in a situation where, before the agenda, the secretary of state has already played with what I have to say, we are applying a tax reduction of 1 per cent of a hundred billion, 20 per cent of earners and 80 per cent of a 20 billion. Our proposals are: 50 percent single wage increase now, 100 percent in three years. The health budget must be increased by at least 120 billion. To do this, we need to define the goals that will help you to keep here, your doctors and your therapists. This money requires a system. The reduction of waiting lists is a matter of money, and the Secretary of State knows that if it was possible to reduce it by 1 and 5 billion, then this magnitude will be reduced. I would like to conclude by saying that, before the Parliamentary Secretary of State's agenda, he said that we should be happy because there is a debate day, and this proves how democratic the environment is here. Debate day is not a favor, it's a house rule that we've been living with. So don't make it feel any different, because it can't be. We're serious about this. We really think it's possible to find a common solution, and if you choose to slap me now, it's also good, but if you want to think together, it is. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-15-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, another lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[17.00]]
u2015-06-15-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The beginning of Mr. Secretary's speech, that if you listened to it, you might have thought that everything was okay here, but thank God, you also told me the end, and I think that if you didn't take a big step, but we took a small step forward in relation to the success that we have been constantly hearing, what a success it is, the way they are transforming health care now. We've just heard words like crisis, fall behind, we're the last in the region, and I think this kind of confrontation can help. What we are missing is the concept that my fellow Member, István Tukacs, spoke about. It is not the first time in this House that we have never been able to assess what needs are, what skills are, what capacities are, and how to resolve the issue of health, what steps are needed to adapt skills and capacities to the needs, and what resources are needed and what resources are needed for this. This, I think, is something we have not seen in this House yet, which is probably what we need most, but instead we always see a budget line. This year, it did rise by a few billion forints, perhaps 53, but for example, the healing-preventive activity was reduced. [[To intervene:]] Yes, 600 billion. At a time when we are talking on one side about balanced economic and debt management being the most important thing in health, why are we not talking about it, Mr Secretary of State, that we are raising funds. 60 billion, my dear fellow Member Bene, we cannot be so pleased when we are talking about the fact that here we are talking about 100-120 billion wages, 75 billion forints in large and large, to reduce waiting lists - of course this would require some kind of change in OEP funding - this is still only half of what you spent on MOL funds to buy shares in MOL, only half of what it is worth today, because what you have spent is a third of what you have spent. We continue to believe that health, education and the social sphere must be the main task of a government in the whole country, because there is no player in the market, there is no other person outside the Hungarian state to carry out these tasks, so to draw funds from here, whether to build a portfolio of companies or not. But Mr Secretary of State has now said critically in several respects, at the conference on 4th, he said even more bravely - at least in the press - and I quote why we are not talking about resources. The Secretary of State said there that he mentioned the recently set-up of regional health committees that will carry out closer economic control than before inpatient institutions; strictness will be a good basis for effective health fighting for additional resources for decision-makers, which requires a strengthening of confidence in the sector, and credibility must be demonstrated. Secretary of State, we need to prove to your government that your government is the one who's putting forward the budget. I believe that in a crisis where, on average, average, average wages are clearly reached - in practice, health workers do not necessarily reach the average wage of HUF 237 thousand - where we spend less on health care per person - we spend over $1800 per person on health care, Romania, Slovakia spends more than $2,000 per person on health care, to give an example, and Sweden spends $40,000 per person on health care, it is true that there is the highest life expectancy there, and I think that when we are drivers at this level not for Europe, but for the Visegrad countries, credibility, mistrust... - sorry, mistrust must be distributed, Mr Secretary of State, within the government, and credibility must be represented here. It's what you spend on, not buying companies, not buying MOL, not buying Antenna Hungaria. I will also tell you that I am glad that if, say, the National Rescue Service had developed as much as we heard, but it is also true that two years ago it was necessary to increase the lifespan of motor vehicles to 13 years because otherwise they should have been withdrawn, it is true that they are now struggling to tender air rescue; there is an administrative obstacle, but above all, there is a financing obstacle to this case. But why can't the National Rescue Service get at least as much as the Hungarian Olympic Committee? I understand that the Olympic movement is very important, but I think it affects a much smaller section of the country, but most importantly a much smaller section of social security, if at all, as the National Rescue Service. Paramedics work second, third job, nurses work second, third job, doctors leave. We believe that the proposals put forward are the redirecting of prestige investments and priorities, which are not unthinkable in the order of 100 billion and not as amazing as it seems to be at first hearing, but simply spending money on what is important for social security in Hungary, and this is health care. I think that in health care, if there are such delays, I think they are bigger than in stadiums, then that is where the resources should be transferred. The resources are in place, Mr. Secretary, build credibility within the government. If we can help you with any of this, we are very happy to do so. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Attila Móring, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Hungary's government is committed to further improving the country's health situation. One of its main objectives is to continuously improve the health of the Hungarian population. In addition to prevention, an important government objective is to improve patients' chances of recovery. The period 2010-14 basically addressed the distortions caused by the careless activities of previous governments. The measures were a strong basis for the continuation, and the concept of the Semmelweis plan set out the right directions. The basic objective has not changed, we need a functioning, sustainable state health system of the highest possible quality. One of the most important achievements of the past year is that the government has adopted the strategy "Healthy Hungary 2014-20." This strategy presents the priorities, development areas, measures that are the basis for the forthcoming government decisions and which are also the basis for drawing on EU development resources. A shift in attitudes is of paramount importance, with the focus on public health in all health policy government measures. The State Secretariat for Health considers it extremely important to consult professional and interest organisations widely prior to any decision. Smoking is a serious public health and national economy problem in Hungary. Smoking causes more than 20,000 people to die each year. The main rule of the public, enclosed air spaces is that it is not possible to smoke as of 1 January 2012. The social acceptance of the amendment is high, 85 percent, and its compliance is also appropriate. Over 200,000 people have stopped smoking in the last two years. With the introduction of a public health product tax, we consume fewer products that are harmful to health, some manufacturers have also changed the composition of their products, they mix less salt and sugar into food. Thanks to the public health product tax, the health sector received more than HUF 52 billion in revenue by 2014, which created the basis for the health wage increase. Hungary is among the first in Europe to act against trans fatty acids that are harmful to health. Each year, 1450-1500 new cervical cancers are diagnosed in Hungary, and about 400 women die every year as a result. [[17.10]] This autumn, HPV vaccination is mandatory, and free vaccination can be given to girls in the seventh grade at the age of 12 years. New screening actions have also taken place in recent years, and in 2014 the screening night was held for the first time, with extended opening hours waiting for women invited to study at around 50 locations nationwide. In 2013, a health development office was established in 58 districts, of which 18 were located in the most disadvantaged municipalities, with EU support to support the prevention capacity of primary care. About 40 mental health centres have also been established. It covers food served in educational institutions, social care, basic child welfare care, specialized childcare facilities as well as patient food. The price of more than 1,500 medicinal products decreased by an average of 35 percent between 2012 and 14 which resulted in savings of HUF 10.5 billion. In recent years, the government has been able to save approximately HUF 100 billion annually in the drug register, while the patient burden has been reduced. From 2010 we have provided support for 49 new active substances. In 2012 and 13 we provided an additional source of basic supply. In 14 we received an additional HUF 10 billion in basic care, as part of which we could apply for settlement support with HUF 500 million. Proposals for regional operational programmes have provided opportunities for the development of the infrastructure of the basic supply, the modernisation of GPs, the development and development of health homes. These proposals will allow local governments and their forms of association to spend some HUF 13 billion on developing infrastructure conditions for basic supply services across the country. The constructions allocated for this purpose within the regional programmes, as well as the general announcements, provided the opportunity to support the most disadvantaged 33 small regions to be supported by the complex programme, so that more than 30% of the basic supply development projects can be implemented in the settlements of these small regions. Through the expansion, reconstruction and renovation of outpatient clinics, it was possible to optimize health care on a sub-regional basis, to develop damaged infrastructure and to obtain the necessary equipment. In the framework of the outpatient care development scheme, 40 outpatient clinics were developed, 23 new outpatient clinics were set up in the small region and 9 hospitals were developed to provide active care, with a total grant of HUF 50 billion. In hospital emergency care, some HUF 12 billion is available for the development of new emergency departments, the development of an existing emergency department or reception centre to a higher level, and the development of the existing emergency department. Special attention was paid to child emergency services during this planning period in hospital emergency care. In this context, preterm centres have been renewed and new tools have been provided. For this purpose, 20 institutions in the convergence regions have received a total of HUF 4 billion in funding, and the implementation of the projects is ongoing. We have introduced the Facility Financing Support, which strengthens the quality and efficiency of supply. For this purpose, HUF 12.7 billion was available in 2012. With a practice change program, we helped young general practitioners start their careers. We've been advertising scholarships to the residents. With the help of the Resident Support Programme, more than 1,700 young doctors and pharmacists have been kept at home so far. We've raised 95,000 doctors and nurses' salaries in several steps. In two years, the gross earnings of people employed in hospitals and clinics increased on average by 27 percent. More than HUF 10 billion has been spent from EU funds to support the employment and training of healthcare workers. 300 new ambulances were delivered nationwide between 2010 and 14 and 22 new rescue stations are being built, 60 stations are being upgraded and renovated. After 2011, we launched a new waiting list reduction programme, which will reduce the number of people waiting for treatment by the end of the year. In order to reduce the spread of so-called designer drugs, which is a serious public health problem, the legislative annex containing psychotropic substances has added 39 more psychoactive substances, allowing for strict criminal prosecution of these substances in the event of abuse. The new psychoactive substances are not listed in a government regulation, but in a ministerial decree, which allows for a faster response and more effective action in the fight against designer drugs. In the field of health, the largest proportion of development resources, more than HUF 322 billion, helped to renew inpatient care, modernise and modernise oncological care. The operational programme for the environment and energy makes it possible to support the purchase of healthcare tools for energy saving. The available funding amount is HUF 9 billion. The aim is to support the energy savings of healthcare institutions by replacing existing outdated healthcare devices with significant energy consumption and by purchasing modern, lower energy equipment instead. In addition to the available money, the budget provided a surplus of HUF 10 billion for basic care in 2014. Part of the amount: 1 billion HUF for general medical care, 1.5 billion HUF for protective care and 2 billion HUF for dental care. From 1 January 2015, providers of regional care services will receive a fee of HUF 130 thousand per month per practice. Doctors who are not yet qualified in general medicine under the practice programme may already undertake general medical tasks during the course of the training under appropriate professional control. In August 2014, the National Health Insurance Fund launched an application to support the establishment of doctors who filled at least 12 months of unfilled GPs in the framework of the GP's residency application. The amount of aid to be awarded was between HUF 6 million and HUF 10 million net, with a total amount of HUF 412.8 million aid paid so far. The Swiss-Hungarian cooperation programme's core supply and development model programme was finalised and the documents governing the activities of the practice communities were introduced. In 2014, the health status of more than 10,000 adult residents was assessed in practice communities. In 2015, we plan to screen nearly 17,000 adults in addition to the number so far. With the help of the women in charge of the programme, an assessment of the health status of children of the age of 0-7 will also be launched. Mr. President, thank you for letting me know. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been wondering what the purpose of today's debate is, what we are going to talk about, and what we can even talk about in the framework of this debate. I've been thinking about talking about the health system as a whole, but there seems to be very little time available for that. After that, I thought that we would also talk about the past, about the misguided decisions that governments have taken the lead in so far. But, of course, there's something else to talk about. I also thought that we would talk only about the present, and that would not be useful, since future priorities and proposals for solutions need to be defined, which, after we have identified the problem, are waiting for a solution. Therefore, as a betterman - and this is what Jobbik will talk about - we will talk about past mistakes, we will talk about Pharisee politicians and we will talk about the challenges of the present, but also about the solutions of the future. About what happened or what happened, we're going to talk about what seems to be the XX. The parties of the century failed to speak. It appears from the debate that the MSZP, the Fidesz, the KDNP are in line with the provisions of Article XX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The parties of the 20th century, the 20th century. They chose to solve the parties of the 20th century, they began to grind each other's positions nicely and greet each other politely, not expose each other in what was their mistake and what has happened in recent times. [[17.20]] But if we're talking about the past period, what's worth looking at? I believe that the 25 years since the change of regime is what needs to be examined, because the last 25 years have had a significant impact on health. What you can see in it is primarily a structural problem that has been announced at several times that there will be structural change, health reform. However, health reforms have only reached the point where the transformation of the health structure has reached the state administration, but it has not actually reached the level of patients, the level of hospitals, it has always focused on itself and then it has drowned. That's where the tension started between the hospital and the government reform, so to speak. Another problem of the system - which many people still insist on, and this is hospital focus - is hospital bed count fetishism, which we are struggling with all day. Anyone here who was a hospital manager or a hospital manager knows exactly what I'm talking about. In the past, we should not count the quality of care, the level of care, or the way in which it is provided, in hospital beds. The other problem was the sanda and constantly recurring privatization intentions to accompany the health policy of the last 25 years. We could safely mention the left-wing party, the MSZP and their dear fellow offender, the SZDSZ, who have roofed the HospInvest, who have placed safes in every ward who have introduced the visit fee and placed these institutions in the neck of the people. But we could also talk about Fidesz, who just recently wanted to legalize gratuity money. But can we also talk about the fact that it has become a fidesz practice in the leading position of hospital and other health institutions - who knows why? - they saw their own partymates as the most trusted man. It is almost impossible to look around the counties without seeing a fidesz local representative or a county representative in the leading position of a hospital, which is not a problem if he has the best skills, but seems to have had problems in recent times. Hungarian health has been marked by people in the last 25 years - to mention them in just a few words; I think everyone's heart is closing when they hear it - like Mihály Kökény, Ágnes Horváth, Tamás Székely, Judit Csehák [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's what a lawyer says. Doctors say otherwise!]] But you could say Miklós Szócska or István Mikola. They share the fact that almost no one has completed a full cycle, the health policy leadership has failed almost from government to government, especially during the MSZP and SZDSZ period. A product produced in accordance with Article 20 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council was manufactured in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data. The parties of the century created a health care This resulted in a poor social health system, a lack of work, and a lack of money health care to put it in the medical language: chronically ill health care. CHAPTER XX It was the parties of the century who brought the pathology tickets to the top, and they were the ones who didn't really want to talk about their mistakes right now. For example, some allowed themselves to be caught up in reform by privatization efforts, and others allowed their own power infatuation to take them off the road. Jobbik is the 21st. However, as a party of the century, it is different. We identify the mistakes, we say the mistakes that are in the system, we also acknowledge that someone has done the right thing, but we do it ruthlessly and we tell them when someone has made a mistake. The first step is to identify the problems. The first level of the problem is a systemic problem, which we have heard about several times today, and that is the problem of financing. Perhaps one of the worst indicators of Hungarian health is the 8 percent cost to Hungarian healthcare compared to OECD and its average. On the basis of the purchasing power parities, Hungary is even worse. But I am also pleased to note that the Fidesz MEPs here did not miss to say that they themselves regret this situation, so they feel that this must be improved. Another good indicator of the systemic problem is the E-Fund's revenue, which - we can safely acknowledge - has indeed increased in its number, but this does not feel on expenditure. The increase in the E-Fund in the percentage distribution appears to be so small in health services, in the area of health, that it is not possible to achieve real, serious progress. The other important problem is what would then be - and there has already been a country that has done this and the health care problem depends on the problem of funding - if a health care professional were Prime Minister of Hungary. We could, for example, go through Turkey, where, in this case, spending immediately jumped, and finally, one of the leading politicians took politics seriously, did not mix policy and professional policy-making, if you like, with policy, so you did not confuse these two concepts, but you started working on a policy of professionalism. The second major problem, which, on the other hand, is financing in addition to the general budget deficit, is the change in the HUF value of the hbcs-point. Otherwise, this will come back several times, or it will ring back even in my speech. We see that this has remained unchanged since 2008; this is now a value of HUF 150,000. Just to say the ratio: In 2008 he came to Hungary and opened his Hungarian profile on the social media, Facebook, which everyone liked. What has information technology developed since then, for example? Or what has developed, for example, in another social media, Linkedin, which was founded in 2008, where doctors who want to keep jobs are now hunting? There has been no meaningful progress in this area since 2008, although the world's wheels have changed enormously and have turned enormously. Of course, when we talk about a shortage of workers - this is also a big problem, and this is another area where we need to identify that there is a serious problem - we must not sweep under the carpet that Hungary is not in a single situation. Not only the countries of Central Eastern Europe, but also the Western European countries, are struggling with a shortage of expertise, and migration has also started there. And it's not just because the wages are bad, it's because the career picture is bad. According to Hungarian surveys, emigration doctors are no longer primarily driven by wages, but by feudal conditions in Hungarian health care or not called home to Hungary. So if we say that we need a wage arrangement, we can safely add that we need a career model in which, in addition to wages, we are involved in eliminating feudal relations in the field of health care in Hungary. But another problem can be identified - it's a moral problem - that goes hand in hand with some kind of puffiness. I'm sorry to use the word "gown," but it's about to make sense. The moral crisis is a lack of professional appreciation, and the social negative perception that is now in the direction of doctors, nurses, but all health professionals, precisely because of the shortcomings of the system. But it can be said that gratitude money is exactly the same, so it raises moral problems. There seems to be an internal tension that is also rooted in this, reliant on feudal relations, from the skills gaps between health professionals such as nurses, specialists and doctors. Overall, this is all a huge moral problem for the health system. And with the fallout, I wanted to point out that although 500 billion HUF of investment and investment came to Hungary, most of them went into concrete. These are all like in my constituency, in my hometown, in Karcagon: a beautiful building, a very nicely renovated hospital, in which there is not enough equipment, there is not enough doctor, there is no proper catering in it, and I could tell you more. And it's not because those working there don't do everything they can to make it okay and get to the level that the hospital looks like from the outside, but because often EU funds went to things that didn't directly help health care, but instead went to construction projects and construction contractors. The other problem is the sustainability of all these. If there's no device, there's no doctor, then what are you going to treat the patients there? Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, during the spring we have repeatedly said the word that the Hungarian health system is on its way, that the coat is not sewn to the button, but the buttons are sewn to the patient's stomach. But everyone could see it, and it became a huge scandal that children were pushed from one room to another by a shopping cart at the children's clinic. [[17 .30]] But there was also a scandal recently, and Jobbik brought it to the walls of the House, which is in the health food supply. Well, they give facial toasters, facial toasters, and in addition, the government says a technocratic text, and everyone expects them to meet the meal that people would need to heal from 550 forints in accordance with a regulation! The big problem with this is that what we have put here in the European Union has gone to the wrong place. And to keep the system sustainable, that's where hospital workers, managers take the money from: equipment, human resources, and the tiny places from which they can still be carved. That's where the waiting lists come from, which is why they can accumulate. In fact, don't worry, there is a new trend in social media, now they're taking pictures of the state of buildings in some places and publishing the state of health. But let us also talk about the problem in some areas, because not only is it a big problem, but the issue of health professionals and nurses, for example, is ripe for talking about it and we have already talked about it. Here, too, we need decisive action from the government. I felt very sorry for Mr. Secretary of State Gábor Zombor when he had to stand up and say that you were right about everything, but perhaps when he had to go back to his study and look at the papers he had been prepared to raise wages or, for example, settle the situation of health professionals, they didn't reflect what he said there. But the same problem is that we are not willing to support civil society organisations either. In Hungary, there are dozens of organisations that do not destroy or even improve public health services. I could describe: Hungarian Anti-Crab League, Mályvavirág Alapítvány. Civil society organisations, which are otherwise preventive or rehabilitation activities, receive the same budget support each year and expect much more work from them, can continue to be said. But we can talk about saving, for example, because the rescue tool park is also facing challenges. Now, overall, we have enough to replace all the ambulances in the system, but that won't be close to the number that's getting old, and its mileage is already beyond the limit until it can still be used. We will also see that local problems are different and different. That is why my better fellow Members are here to tell me what problems there are in their constituency, in their place of residence, because health care is struggling. Because that's part of the whole picture, that's part of what needs to be improved. Because there are different problems locally. But we could talk about the question of the patio shift, so that we don't sweep it under the rug, and we don't always just deal with doctors or nurses. There, too, there are huge expectations of the government, because the shortcomings of the patio duty are felt by people on their own. We're full of big cities where there's either more on call or none on call. Where do people go? They must also be answered. I think that we will also be able to answer that in today's debate. Overall, therefore, we are doing the right thing and we are fair to today's debate, honourable Members, when we identify the problems. The problems I have mentioned have been identified by Jobbik for his part, and our proposals for solutions are partly addressed by my fellow Members, partly by me, and even every day of the year, when I prepare for my speeches and present them to you, we always give you the proposals for a solution to what could finally be done to pull Hungarian health back from the edge of the gap. That at the last minute, as I said the other day, we'd catch the guy, and before he dives into that particular ravine, we'd pull him back, because it seems like now not only the health professionals, but the whole system is almost after 24 hours. So we need immediate action. Therefore, it is essential to expect constructiveness from left-wing representatives and from the government, and finally to discuss the necessary steps on a debate day where it is possible to speak frankly about errors and opportunities for progress. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-244	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-245	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We all know that Hungarian health care, people waiting to be cured, does not need debate days. Yet we supported today's parliamentary debate, for one reason only. We hope that we can at least agree to identify the problems, and perhaps today we will push the Orbán government a little closer to realizing that it can no longer hesitate. To realize that immediate action has already been delayed. Of course, the health protection and healing system in Hungary is not a new phenomenon. But Possibly Other Politics sees this sad story as a turning point today. In the wake of 25 years of omissions and missteps, we have to ask today whether we acknowledge that there is no free healthcare available to all in Hungary. Do we recognise that the sector is divided into two sectors, costly for the wealthy, and unattainable for the poorer, to private institutions and to often inadequate, decayed public sector? Do we recognise that the thickness of the wallet in Hungary fundamentally affects the chances of recovery? Do we say that the constitutional fundamental rights to health are worthless in Hungary in 2015? Ladies and gentlemen, If you look at things honestly, the answer to these questions can only be a sad confession. But the LMP's position is that we can't live with that either. The first and most important thing we can expect of Hungary's current government is to face the question honestly, tell us whether they believe in paying health care, which is only available to the wealthy. The actions and procrastination of the ruling party suggest that this is precisely the government's intention. Even if they say otherwise. If a government politician, a state leader, seriously states that he believes in a free and fair healthcare system available to all, he should immediately back this up by HUF 100 billion. Just to make sure you can believe what you're saying. We see a fraction of the resources needed to make progress in the 2016 budget, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to take your words seriously. In the last five years, health care has been treated as a multi-faceted issue, just like all other governments. We have heard great promises, especially from the opposition Fidesz, but they have not once set out for the real solution. It was for reorganizations and centralization attempts that you could afford. It was nothing but what their ancestors did. These often caused more problems than they solved. But the football stadiums were clearly more important to Fidesz than hospitals. How serious can we take government intentions if even the independent Ministry of Health is not considered important? How serious is a health policy that does not give its State Secretary the right weight to fulfill his promises? No one claims that the destruction of health care is entirely Fidesz' fault. The fact is, however, that the system has continued to be decommissioned beyond 2010 without real government responsibilities. Government propaganda just shows that they're not taking responsibility, they're running away from the facts. Anyone who hasn't been sick in the last few years might think that everything is in order. But propaganda hasn't cured anyone yet. Troubles are now indescribable. Anyone who has to wait months for an examination or years for an operation will not be convinced by all the Finkelsteins and Árpád Habony of your opinion. Naughty talk is no consolation to those who are left without a doctor's care. And you know what you need. Money. Much more money, and now. That is exactly what Minister Mihály Varga denied in a recent television interview. So we still have our unfair hybrid system, whoever can do it, looking for paying private institutions. And anyone who barely comes out of his paycheck is dependent on public health at the end of the breakup. Thanksgiving money doesn't mean it's free, but in return, it's 19. It gives patients the experience of centuries of war hospitals. Doctor, nurse, medicine, technique - at least one of these is usually missing nowadays. Not to mention such small things as the barely fit hospital food for human consumption. Or the wards and bathrooms where we don't get sick of sightings. I'd like to remind you how you reacted when you found out how tragic hospital hygiene is, the statistics on hospital infections. [[17.40]] Maybe they've solved it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Rather, these statistics were encrypted, and they hid them very thoroughly on a site, which later appeared, but it turned out that the uploads were incomplete. I know, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, all this is a distant and incomprehensible problem for you. We know that with family cooperation, they can raise almost any amount of money. You have open arms for elite institutions and private orders. Centralization here, restructuring there, the underfunding of hospitals remained unchanged. The government takes responsibility when it asks them to account for the debt. But it is clear that the money available cannot be used to meet the quality standards, and in the meantime, it can be managed in a zero way. In October 2014, the government promised to settle the debts. Then it turned out that the funds for this purpose were significantly less than needed. They've been pulling payments for months. When state institutions owe suppliers for such a long time, they set a very bad example; it is no wonder that the President of the State Audit Office has already mentioned this. Not to mention that on countless occasions you can experience that this type of health care, which in this way wants to save money, is extremely expensive, as suppliers are no longer willing to deliver these products at cheap prices. But the story is still not over. With more than six months of delay, many Hungarian businesses have been put in a difficult position. And they create jobs at home, they tax at home. When negotiating with suppliers, the Hungarian SMEs concerned were excluded from the negotiations, for whom late payment is significantly more burdensome than possibly capital-powered foreign or multinational companies. The Hungarian health system bleeds from so many wounds that it is difficult to pinpoint exactly where to start fire fighting, strengthening the structure. The Possibly Other in Politics sees the human front as the biggest problem, here you need to start the procedure. The biggest problem of health is the same as that of Hungary: workers' poverty, often too few, uncompetitive salaries for a living, and all the consequences. The emigration of doctors and nurses, the shortage of professionals in a range of areas, and the terrible overload of those staying here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Do you think it's okay that many nurses' net salaries are below 100,000 forints? That a doctor gets an average gross HUF 222,000? That the technical workers, the paramedics, the medical carriers are slumped out of a gross sum of about 130 thousand forints? That you have to fight to pay for mandatory overtime? Employee poverty is a phenomenon where, in vain, a person can work through the days, weeks with decency, at the end of the month, he cannot or can hardly make ends meet. Nothing destroys the honour of work more than this, and yet nearly half of the taxpayers are in this situation. As the above figures show, health care workers are most affected by this phenomenon. While they are responsible for the lives, health and working capacity of the Hungarian people. This is totally unacceptable. It is also quite shocking that it is those who work in health care who are most affected by health problems, because they do their job with such an overload. Health professionals have been looking for them in countries that are better governed than ours, and there they will be paid. Although Viktor Orbán boasted last March that doctors had stopped their exodus, the facts show otherwise. In 2014, nearly a thousand doctors announced their work abroad as they did a year earlier. If nothing happens, it can be covered that the pace is not slowing this year either. The residency scholarship created to keep young doctors doesn't work either, as nearly 500 people were already working abroad last year. Let's face reality. 203 GP practice is persistent, so it's been vacant for years. According to the president of the Association of Hungarian Doctors, three doctors and two nurses leave Hungary every day. Two thirds don't plan to return. The Western countries have so far overcome their shortage of expertise from the Philippines, Sierra Leone and similar countries. More recently, Hungary has also become a stable replacement for health care in England, Germany and Sweden. This increases the burden of remaining workers and the length of waiting lists, thus directly impairing patients' chances of recovery. Unlike Fidesz, for less than that, there was a huge catalysm. While there are not enough professionals to replace the retirees, with the anti-alien poster campaign, the government is pushing even immigrant doctors who temporarily alleviate the shortage. So much for comparing propaganda to reality. Let's see what the government's plans tell us about the 2016 budget. For months, the LMP has been waiting for the government to eradicate workers' poverty. Our comprehensive programme would bring tangible progress without a HUF loan being reorganized in the budget. Several times we have said, presented, calculated: with a fairer tax system, lower contributions, 21,000 HUF more per month would remain in the pocket of the minimum wage earners. The net value of the average wage would increase by HUF 38,000. But the government didn't want to hear any of this, but they made it easier to clean black and gray money. In addition, we proposed a radical increase in the basic salary of healthcare workers, with a transfer of HUF 100 billion. Yes, this would also be possible if the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian state had the will. This would have brought a net wage increase of between HUF 50,000 and HUF 70,000 to all health workers. As I said at the beginning of my speech, who believes that healing cannot be the privilege of the rich and the privileged, he should also put the necessary money on the table. That's what we did, but the government has swept all our proposals aside. All you have to do is explain, blame other people? Or unspoken, but deliberately prepping for two levels of health care? The Hungarian people must answer that question. There is only one way to save on spending and prevention in the long term. By strengthening health protection and screening, savings of 100 billion could be achieved in a few years. It's too bad the government's taking the money for this. Many schools lack the condition of daily physical education. The government's drug policy failed. If we understand correctly, they're desperate to change course. There are positive intentions in terms of encouraging screening and speeding up cancer diagnostics, but it is highly doubtful that the institutional background is able to meet these efforts under the current conditions. And then we didn't talk about the problems that pollution poses, even for one sentence in Budapest, mentioning the Scented Way. Dear Parliament, There's so many things to talk about. The destroyed ambulance service, the fidesz catfight around the new super-hospital, the depreciation of hospitals, the lack of medicine would actually be worth a separate debate day. You can be sure that we will also keep these on the agenda in the coming months. But when we look at what is most important, we think it is necessary to start by raising salaries, curbing emigration and shortage of professionals, reducing congestion. I would like to end my speech with what I started. Healthcare has now split in two in Hungary. There is a modern and expensive private sector for those who can raise the money for recovery, and there is the public sector, which is almost barely functioning by the superhuman performance of those who work in it. If you can't afford private health, you have a much less chance of recovering, you survive. And the government that sits by and watches this is cynical, evil, and not worthy of leading this country. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-06-15-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since László Varju, an independent Member, has applied for the first speech, is not in the Chamber, we are now continuing our work with the written statements of the Members. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard a lot of political programming, and I'd like us to go a little more objectively. [[17.50]] Allow me, on the occasion of the Health Debate Day, to say a few words about a pickled slice of health care, the clinics, in particular, because I am from a city where clinics are very important. Clinics report, and have previously reported, the peak of health care in both human resources, infrastructure and instrumentality. It is safe to say that the clinics are, in this respect, places where there is no place to send the patient anymore, so ultimately, all the complicated cases come down here. In addition, clinics have other tasks, so besides patient care they play a major role in medical training, scientific research and even in the training of specialists. So it's more complex, more multitasking than the clinics that come up than the hospitals. However, we must not forget that the healthcare funding unit, the so-called hbcs points, is the same for clinics as for hospitals. This is 153 thousand forints. Let us add that this amount has been unchanged for 12 years, so there is a very serious lag in this respect. Let us also add that, in principle, the magnitude of this amount is closely linked to the scale of the contributions. The level of contributions is closely linked to the employment rate. Therefore, at a time when we are talking about the importance of employment, it is good to be able to retrain them to the health sector, because it is far from incidental to the scale of the health register that can be managed. The types of diseases that need to be financed are classified by different committees as to how many hbcs they can reach. Whether they're put together well or not, it's not my place to figure that out. One thing, however, is that inpatient care, which occurs both in hospitals and clinics, is essentially expensive, costly care, and it is true that in most cases the shortage occurs here. According to some calculations, whether this is correct or not, I cannot judge, some calculations suggest that hbcs should be increased to approximately 180 thousand forints in order to lead to a deficit from the system, because it is now, in principle, regenerating and even in practice. Therefore, the employment rate is particularly important. In the case of clinics, as I mentioned, patient care is mostly, in the vast majority of cases, the most expensive interventions, and therefore a deficit is created specifically from patient care and not from medical training. In the past, until OEP funding and education and medical training funding were clearly separated, the framework funding went back there in practice, and there was not a single misconception that education was financed from the medical and care register, but since it had to be separated, it is very clear for clinics that the shortage arises in patient care and not in the educational area. The situation is aggravated by the fact that, about a decade and a half earlier, at the time of independent medical universities, many activities were outsourced to private companies and large-value instruments were acquired with private capital. This was most common in the field of imaging diagnostics. In the field of imaging diagnostics, there is practically no need to finance beds, nurses, but there is considerable income. Through the activities thus outsourced, these private companies collect more than 10-12 times the price of the instruments through OEP financing and carry out certain investigations several times. That's the financial interest. Patients are directed towards often-expensive studies because they are driven by profit interests and less focused on problem solving. As an add-on, we have the ultrasound scan out of a few thousand forints, the CT is already 30 thousand, and the MRI is 150 thousand forints. So you can see the exponential differences here. In many cases, they also lead to long waiting lists. With a public asset park, these waiting lists could be significantly reduced in public institutions, but these outsourcings are legally surrounded to such an extent that it is virtually impossible to touch them today. Also this year, independent medical universities organised activities that significantly increase the costs of operation. The energy supply was not delivered to an institution with 25-year contracts, and the patient's meals were also held for 25 years. So these are decisions from 15, 16, 18 years ago, and to this day, the institutions are paying the price. From the washing, the delivery of disinfectants, there are a lot of things that belong here. For this reason, it is both shocking and outrageous to me that the Health Science Council has just published a 70-page report calling for the restoration of the former independent and incredibly wasteful medical university. In parentheses, of course, it is not so surprising, because the members of the ETT, so the Health Scientific Council, are still people who were pillars of the former socialist system. Let us add that this body itself was created by Judi Csehák, and since then the membership of this body has remained unchanged. The worst version of financing clinics would be this scenario, the scenario that the Scientific Council on Health is calling for. Moreover, the truth of his claims is seriously questionable. From the point of view of patient care, a system of care should be provided in which county hospitals are closely linked to clinics so that there are no parallels. A so-called one-stop-shop patient management is needed, in which hospitals should also be connected, without having to take another X-ray, and with a heart attack, take the patient to where he really is best treated. This is obviously a serious coordination activity, not necessarily just a financial issue, attitude and coordination skills. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Another important task for clinics is medical training. In doing so, it is essential to acquire practical skills, and therefore we can say that dual training in health care and medical training has been a practice for a very long time. Today, clinics are the scenes of medical training in addition to patient care. The activity here is therefore more costly than in hospitals. It may be worth considering that it might be worth making a distinction on the basis of certain financing coefficients in this regard. However, the aspects of health care systems and medical training do not always coincide. I think that they should not be confronted with each other, because then there is a problem, because medical students have to meet all kinds of illnesses, if possible, because of the acquisition of practical skills. In other words, it is essential for clinics to be cheaper, if you like, to come to patients with everyday illnesses, not only in complicated cases, which is due to progressive patient care logic, because a medical student should be able to get to know an appendectomy as well as, let's say, heart surgery, just to make very serious differences. In many cases, these outsourced activities also cause educational problems. Some of these outsourced activities have to be paid separately for the use of instruments or practical training, but there are also examples that certain training courses are simply not available. For example, radiology training is quite weak, let's be honest. If educational and health care funding is already separated at macro level, this is not the case for clinic health care and educational doctors. So it is not clearly regulated how many percent of working time is healing or educating, how and how they come together. It would be worth considering that this was the case earlier, during the time of Secretary of State Klinghammer, that there might be two grounds for establishing the payment of clinical doctors, because there is an instructor and there is also a patient-care activity. This could also reduce the possible mobilisation of highly qualified specialists in the highest places. If it can be stopped, I don't know, I'll tell you honestly. This is today about 1500 people in Hungary. A very brief comment on medical education, if I may: if we look at the portfolio of higher education institutions in Hungary today, it is medical education, which is mostly marketable in terms of international standards and standards. [[18.00]] So a lot of people come here to study, and they're willing to pay a lot for it. Of course, let's add that Hungarian medical education is far cheaper than I do, the American, not by accident, is also coming from the United States, Canada, but at the same time shows that it is of high quality. Over the past decade and a half, there has been a significant increase in the proportion of participants in paying and paying training, which is crucially English-language training, and this increase has been particularly high in large integrated universities in rural areas, where university integration has created universities of meaningful scale that have been able to get on the map of the world. In Szeged, the proportion of foreign paid students increased four times, five times at the University of Debrecen, compared to twice the share of SOTE, which remained an independent university. Therefore, it is worth considering what the structure of the university structures encourages, or what it less encourages. For this reason, I think that, if we look at these figures alone, it is again justified to think about how unconventional and outdated the idea of the Scientific Council on Health for the restoration of independent medical universities is. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. I welcome my fellow Members, and we will continue with the speeches announced in advance in writing. The group of the MSZP will follow Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-249	Thank you very much for the floor. No one at Stadium has recovered yet. I have had the opportunity to listen to Mr Secretary of State before a committee several times to discuss his ideas, to discuss his thoughts, and here I have only written three words to myself that the goal is okay, the pursuit is okay, the results so far are not visible. The results are not visible, all the more so because I read the following in one of these medical journals a few days or nearly a week ago: the CT or MR scan must be performed within two weeks of Monday. State Secretary Gábor Sombor now promises that the patient will take priority in the case of cancer, and the lack of money should not prevent a rapid investigation. It's planned to give anyone a diagnosis in two weeks of the threat to the disease. This seems to be a simple, logical and important step, but the tensions are so terrible, the money is so lacking, that the expected opening gap, who lives and moves, will try to get his feet in. The Secretary of State therefore plans to pay only the price for the tests - CT and MR - that proved the suspicion: malignant tumors were detected. Thus, although the investigators will bear the financial risk, they will have no impact on the process. The referral is decided by a specialist with good or bad diagnostics. It may even be that the National Health Insurance Fund will direct the patient to a given service provider, where the work is done, and then treat the patient elsewhere. Later, a histology may confirm whether the tumor is actually malignant and determine whether the imaging diagnosis is due or not. However, after these weeks, the service provider, which bears responsibility, will not be aware of the results of the clinic in the hospital. This absurd system is brought to life by the fact that there is no person in the Hungarian health care system who would accompany the patient, who would be able to verify that he has received professionally and economically correct care. The controlled patient care model experiment has been plotted. It's written in a journal. Everyone who's done a little work on this field knows that as many patients as you are, there are so many sick trips. We also know that it takes weeks to get yourself a referral, sometimes it takes months, and that's not right. It's not okay to wait weeks, months for lab tests as a walking patient. But I'm going to go on: you have to wait two, three, four weeks for a simple blood test, and then you have the ultrasound, and then you have the X-ray, and then you have the Attending, and then you have the appointments for weeks, and then you wait months for CT and MRI. It's an adventure at least. An adventure that is now in Hungarian health care. Last week, I heard from a friend of mine in Újpest that they wanted to put a 24-hour blood pressure measuring device on it, and they said that this could only happen if he went and bought a pencil battery. This is where the Hungarian health system keeps us. This is where the Hungarian health system keeps me, and I repeat my first sentence: in the hospital, yes, no one has ever recovered in a stadium. Two weeks or three weeks ago, the RTL Club filmed a movie in my city, Eger. I live across the street from the hospital, and I know exactly what the conditions are. I would like to stress that the Markhot Ferenc Hospital in Eger is not one of the poorly functioning and poorly funded hospitals, but there are shameful conditions. I don't want to discuss the current status of the waiting lists, but I do need to highlight one element. At Markhot Ferenc Hospital in Eger, a knee replacement is scheduled for November 2021. November 2021! Secretary of State, it's not normal, because this man, if he has to wait so long for a knee replacement, he doesn't have to do the surgery, he has to be treated in the psych ward. Finally, three comments. The basic hospital fee has not changed nominally in years, and as far as I can see, at least 20 percent real value loss can be realised. In the 2016 budget, only the GP's register is in my opinion okay, but the funding of hospitals is not improving, and I do not see the coverage of the wage increase. Dear fellow Members, it is worth reading the convergence programme, which is also page 74. And the fact that there is no progress in the field of health here by 2020. 'Cause no one's ever healed in a stadium. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Ms Ágnes Molnár. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-15-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Health has reached the final limit of performance, health is on the brink, health is on the verge of disintegration - we have heard these slogans over the last few minutes. I would like to inform you and report that this is not the case. Health care works, patient care is running continuously, and 365 days a year, and Hungarians receive this care free of charge because of a single risk community. This is today's Hungary, and this is today's Hungarian reality. But it would be a lot easier for us. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If, under your governance, the effective measures were taken between 2002 and 2010, after which, in 2010, only a fine-tuning and slight corrections could have continued the development of health care. It is very important to clarify where we have come from and how we have come to this situation, because I think we are on a health debate day, making proposals one by one that they consider to be a professional proposal, but so far there has not been one single professional proposal other than that of Mr Pósán. They've mentioned a lot of numbers for days. Last week, they cut up the numbers of the E-Fund in connection with the debate on the Basic Supply Act. They have no idea; one day 300 billion have been withdrawn from health care since 2010, the next day 350 billion, the E-Alap operates at 2400 billion - the E-Alap has never worked with 2400 billion in the world. [[18.10]] I would therefore suggest that everyone should be absorbed in the numbers of funding for health care and in the numbers of the E-Fund, and I would recommend this primarily to my fellow socialists. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] They're very brave, and with these numbers, they're cutting around in the first round. I wouldn't be proud of what you fellow Members left us in 2010, that legacy, I wouldn't be proud of at all, because the debt you're so eager to explain now has burdened hospitals in 2010 in the same way. [[Zoltán Lukács intervenes.]] And this debt was 120 billion. I wouldn't dare say a word to the waiting lists. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've been ruling for five years!]] Because there are waiting lists everywhere in Europe, by the way, and, of course, there must be efforts to ensure that waiting lists cover accessible dates that are acceptable to patients. But basically, I have to say that in 2004, you introduced a volume limit to the financing of health care, which actually said that so many patients could be treated and then no longer. On the issue of migration: migration has indeed increased since our accession to the EU, but this has risen rapidly mainly until 2010, and unfortunately, in 2010 there has been only one sensible proposal from you to reverse migration and no action has been taken. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] However, we have seen a series of failed reforms. I'd just like to remind you that we have a sense of how well they managed health care. [[Zoltán Lukács: But we haven't been ruling for five years, my love. You've been steering for five years! The president's ringing the bell. It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] which is why they are now so concerned: paticalization in seven years, visitation fee, daily allowance, hospital closure, unthinkable removal of 16,000 active hospital beds, preparation of multi-insurance profit-interested insurance model, privatisation in unlimited quantities, partial and complete, and then when the supply areas were considered for privatisation, they were discarded. [[Zoltán Lukács: Who? Are we talking about Fat Szilárd?! Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] It's broken down in the hospital... [[Zoltán Lukács: I thought we were talking about Szilárd Fat!]]
u2015-06-15-252	Congressman...
u2015-06-15-253	... broken hospital infra and equipment, nothing has been done to this end! Then the main lines of funding, and it was all about your convergence programme, I would also mention specific figures, if you will need them based on professionalism, distributed on credit, with a huge shortage of E-Funds, which marked your activities. [[István Tukacs: And does this cure the patient to tell me this now?!]]
u2015-06-15-254	Congressman!
u2015-06-15-255	He made trouble...
u2015-06-15-256	Here, press the button.
u2015-06-15-257	He caused the problem and made the situation worse, not only before 2010, but not only towards solutions, but they didn't even get to know the problem properly. In 2010, you can imagine, fellow Members, that we were greeted by such unblessed conditions that there were no HR records, that we could not say exactly how many doctors, how many nurses are working in the system. We couldn't even know how much real debt the hospitals had. There was no complete report and record. The waiting list register was missing - the waiting list register! - so we weren't even aware of these data. So what I'm really suggesting is that you weren't really interested in this real data. This was added to the bad planning of annual budgets. Between 2002 and 2010, they did not even hit any of their plans by mistake, and almost every year the absence of the E-Fund was measured by a hundred billion. I have mentioned several times that between 2002 and 2010, with the exception of two years, there were years where the E-Fund operated by minus 300 billion, which meant 1226 billion, which meant that the absence of the E-Fund was increased by 45 million per hour. It must therefore be made clear that the problems that have been faced since 2010 have already occurred much earlier in your time. After 2010, we have set out a new approach, a new direction for the systemic transformation of health care. We agree that we really need a systemic transformation, we need conscious planning, we need to take action based on real resources, and we need to prepare these measures so that there is a partnership with society, professional organisations, consultation and consultation. There is a concept for the transformation of health care, read it, fellow Members, read the Semmelweis plan, read the programme. Healthy Hungary 2014-20. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] these are strategic [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] they are the basis of our actions. [[Lajos Korózs: The Semmelweis plan is in the trash can!]]
u2015-06-15-258	My fellow Members, give me some peace. After the next speaker, anyone will have the opportunity to ask for a two-minute speech, I will give it to you. Then please.
u2015-06-15-259	If we turn to funding, we will be able to analyse the health budget, or the E-Fund numbers, to assess the sector objectively and factually from the sources side. Now that the 2016 plans are available, we can carry out a comparison, an analysis and evaluation of the seven years before the change of government in 2010 and after the change of government. Of course, an appropriate background knowledge is also needed to evaluate these numbers. In recent weeks, as I have mentioned, I have heard several speeches saying that my fellow Members are displaying very mixed numbers in relation to the E-Fund, which is why I took the trouble to say that last week when we were negotiating the Basic Supply Act, Mr Gúr took the liberty of saying that the numbers that we are applying are not correct, so we are absorbed in these E-Fund analysis numbers. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Yes, my fellow Member, I will help you to understand these numbers. [[Nándor Gúr: I can help you!]] In real terms, i.e. taking into account the deterioration of money, because it was his wish, for the period 2004-2010, I compared your period with the period 2010-16. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] I would just like to comply with Mr Tukacs' request that everything is about financing and money, well, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are [[Zoltán Lukács: They don't know anything else! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] I would just like to comply with Mr Tukacs' request that everything is about financing and money, well, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are talking about money, we are (Zoltán Lukács: They don't know anything else! - Intercoms in the lines of the MSZP. ) Natural benefits minus 14 percent in your time, plus 4 percent in ours. The curative-preventive care - because I would tell you that if you want to analyze the numbers of health care, you should analyse the healing-preventive supply line (Nándor Gúr intervenes). I say this to my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, for information - curative-preventive benefits: they also operated the supply system by minus 14 per cent, compared with us with an extra 225 billion for curative-preventive care. (Nándor Gúr intervenes. ) In your time, we made the money to fund the general medical system, 33 percent plus. In the area of protective care, you have minus 6 percent; plus 10 percent in the protection system. From dental care, you can imagine that a 21-percent source was extracted from the 2002 period, and they expected well-functioning dental care with such funding. In the field of home care, we have achieved a significant 10% increase. [[18.20]] In the field of rescue... - I don't know which of my socialist fellow Members, perhaps my fellow cook, was concerned that the rescue was not working. All I can tell you is that you pulled minus 6 percent of the backup operation during your seven-year government. Minus six percent! Instead, we have been spending 16 percent more on saving since 2010, in line with the current funding data. [[Constant intervention from the lines of the MSZP, including: Where is it? The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, that's it. At the level of medical aid subsidies, you've taken minus 22 percent; plus we're at 7 percent. For debt management, I can say that between 2010 and 14... [[Deficiencies and constant interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] A little patience, fellow Members, I know these numbers are devastating. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: Well, they're quite devastating.]] But try to deal with it, okay? [[Noise and continuous interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] Every year between 2010 and 14 there was consolidation, a total of HUF 100 billion of targeted consolidation support was provided to the institutions, operating aid of HUF 61 billion was implemented. In addition, a hospital consolidation of HUF 60 billion was carried out in 2015 involving external sources. If we add this up, it's 221 billion that got into the system. Yes, we have decided to take state action and have transformed our institutional system. I think we did the right thing, because of the unity of responsibility and efficiency. Waitlist: you created the waiting list by introducing a volume limit in 2004. From 2012, we will try to manage the reduction of waiting lists. From 2013 we spent a total of HUF 7 billion, the number of patients waiting on the waiting list decreased from 70,000 to 44 thousand, and this year the situation of 12,000 patients, usque, will be settled. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Lukács: And how much will it deteriorate?]] To this end, I would also like to emphasise that additional resources will be added to the system by the fact that one-day care has been exempted from TVK. The government made its decision on this three weeks ago. In the CT and MR scan of oncology patients, which my colleague, Mr Korózs, could not interpret, I would like to say that all studies will be financed. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: You will have to pay back afterwards.]] In fact, it will also be funded, and you know it poorly, there will be additional funding for the study where oncological disease is confirmed. So calm down, the devices are in place, CT, MRI devices are in place. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: What are you talking about?]] , doctors are available and patients are funded for care. You have to take that chance. You have not been able to introduce this either. As of 2015, we are trying to prevent hospital debt from regenerating, so we want to learn more about the lives of hospitals that have so far been almost circumstantial, with local government reservations. For this, county conciliation committees have been set up, and as of April 2015, there are new operating orders, governing committees in the health field, and economic committees that are preparing action plans to eliminate parallel care within a county, and economic measures that will allow this mammoth system to operate more sustainablely from this source. Basic care has been a priority in government health decisions. There has been a significant increase in funding for the operation of the basic supply. The total basic care between 2010 and 16 - including GP, pediatrician, dental, protective care and school health - is plus 40 per cent, but if I only look at the GP service, the GP service is up by 50 per cent, and the protective service is up by 25 per cent. Moreover, a very important element of strengthening the whole basic supply is the creation of a basic supply law. It is a matter of systemic change, of systemic change in health care, my fellow Members, that a well-functioning basic care system must be established on strong bastions, so that the definitive care takes place there, because it is possible to cure patients at a more appropriate, cheaper level of care instead of more expensive supply places. Developments: everyone is dissatisfied with developments, they feel that nothing is happening. This is very surprising to me, because you have completely ignored the development of the health care system. [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: Don't say such bullshit! The president's ringing the bell.]] Nothing in the world! These hospitals were characterised by a lack of infrastructure and equipment for 10-15 years. Health improvements worth HUF 500 billion, 320 billion for inpatient infrastructure; machine tools, you know, I'm talking about modern medical technology. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We know, yes. It's what I don't have. That's what you're talking about.]] This is a vital issue in patient care, not 10-15 years ago; of which 104 billion are outpatients, 50 billion are outpatients, and 11 billion are in emergency care. But I would like to mention that the perinatal intensive centers in your time were only able to obtain some kind of device from foundational operations, we have renewed the perinatal intensive centers at national level, by 4 billion in the convergence region, by 1 billion in the central region. We've established the infrastructure for the return and condition of the lung transplant, secured it from 900 million. We have created a special hybrid O.R. with a grant of 800 million, which actually allows us to perform surgery at Central European level that is unique. In connection with Eurotransplant, I have to mention that we have also been able to increase the number of transplants, with a 36 percent increase in organ transplants. Several people have already talked about the public health programme, and I would not mention this separately, but all the measures that you have failed to take between 2002 and 2010 because the public health programme only existed on paper, where a series of real measures have been taken either by the non-smoker protection or by the introduction of a public health product tax, with which we have been able - to date this public health product tax represents 70 billion - to provide 95,000 health workers with the necessary cover for raising wages. We have established legislation to reduce trans-fat acids; we have established a new system of feeding, 61 health development offices; we have extended the screenings, 1500 women do cervical cancer screening, and we are now introducing a national colon screening study with 6 billion HUF of resources; we have talked about the introduction of HPV vaccination. It is very important that these measures, the public health measures, will bring serious results in the medium and long term. So we can say that in 2010 there was a public health crisis, a supply system and a human resources crisis, this crisis has put us on a virtually difficult task, but we have learned about the real problems of health care, and we have started a conscious construction project along the lines of the concept. I think that, of course, the measures taken so far are insufficient, but we would like to continue on this path. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.30]]
u2015-06-15-260	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the speeches. From the Jobbik Group, it is up to Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-261	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Health Trade Association, which we have here, because this debate is about them, in my opinion, it should be about them, not about who has gone wrong. But speaking of which, it can be mentioned, and in my opinion, this debate should have started by standing up and sharing a repentant exercise of soul, since both sides have a sin in it. Both of them. And it may be hard to be honest, but the point of a straight man is to give an honest answer to a question. For twenty-two years, I've worked in a system that you're criticizing from the right and from the left, I've been a victim for twenty-two years, and we've come to the point where medical personnel have handed over their payroll. So what you're talking about here is GDP-related growth or behind-the-counter or wage developments, you can see in these payroll papers - and if you're wondering, you can look at them anonymously, because we cover their names so they don't have a problem - nothing happened. After ten years of medical work, an ambulance nurse - this is not secret - earns 106 429 forints. And that's ten years. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] After ten years, it's the same thing, only without graduation: 90 630 HUF. After 15 years, 112. And unfortunately, he didn't know his rent paper - a man who has worked as a driver for 23 years and is now a paramedic, which means that he has both a driver and a nurse's degree, a net HUF 118 thousand. So it's the benefit of twenty-five years, it's wage development. And in my opinion, it is not established in 2016 that this will change at some level. Those are the people we are talking about now or should be talking about, and we should talk about their wages in the first place, because this weekend there was a case, in the interior of Balatonfüred, a small child was hit, ran over, there was a need to revive that small child on the spot; people who made 116 thousand and 96 thousand forints did this. The infant was resuscitated; he was transported by a rescue helicopter. They lack financial appreciation. It's missing out on people who might have three children at home in the same way. It is also necessary, of course, because healthcare workers also have a convenience function if they can do 12 hours a day in a building or 8 hours a day or 24 hours a 16-hour on-call period that serves their comfort. What we need to talk about first of all is, and that is why we have tabled amendments to the budget to settle their wages. We can settle the goals that you have said that we will be able to keep these people here in the near future. There have been a lot of statistics about what has happened so far, what will happen next, what we want. I collected the speeches from before 2009 and between 2010 and 14 and found very interesting things that I already knew about, and I would like to share it with the people here, and I am glad that the health professionals are here. In 2009, Dr. András Kupper, representative of Fidesz, asked the then-regulating MSZP government what the health sector intends to do about migration. At that time, 730 doctors, 53 pharmacists, 11 midwives and 153 nurses requested the certificate to work abroad. At that time, the answer had already been given, and they were about to introduce the career model, which failed. And I will come back to this in a later speech. Interestingly, the same figures grew brutally in 2013: a total of 1943 health workers requested permission to work abroad. So it's more than four times. Not only would it have decreased, it has doubled in spite of all the alleged measures that the current government has taken. Thus, these statistical data alone show that the measures that have been characterised by the past five years are not satisfactory. Once again, the funding in the health system is low, she said, and I can agree with that, but I can't agree that it hasn't changed in years, hbc funding hasn't changed in years, and you should know this best, because you've worked as hospital directors for years. What I understand is that as a pro-government Member, it is difficult to express criticism of the current health policy that the funding system that was ten years ago cannot be maintained. We need to raise the funding. In the same way, hospital meals cannot be maintained from 550 forints. The man who shows me how to get a diet meal out of 550 forints for one day is a wizard, fellow Members. From 550 HUF, a Giordano-Giovanetti, a protein-free diet is not possible! There have also been many thesis and many suggestions about a health career model. In 2011, Member István Garai asked the Ministry of Health a question about what the government intends to do about emigration in the same way. And then, from the health government, János Halász, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Resources, said that as part of the Semmelweis plan, the career model of health workers is in front of us. Within this framework, the emphasis will be placed on four areas of intervention: the health sector, the review and development of training, and the improvement of the income situation of health workers. In 2011 And now it's 2015. The wages of those working in the health sector - and I am thinking primarily of middle cadres - remained the same in 2015 as in 2011. And all of this is supported by the payroll I showed you. And, again, if you don't believe me, you can come here and I'll show you. The employees don't need it, because they know. A lot of things have been said about hospital debt, why it is being produced. It will continue to grow until this funding system is changed. And I'm not the only one who says that, hospital directors who dare to say it, including the hospital director in Zalaegerszeg, Chief Medical Officer of Chidei, he said the same things. Departure, wage management, everything is connected. Until the wages are settled at mid-Qaeda and Attending level, we will not be able to stop the migration, we can do any debate day here even weekly! I believe that, and in that, the pro-government Members are right, that it may not be necessary to argue, but to put forward proposals. And the proposals that we have submitted to the budget, please review once again, there are budget items that we have marked that the government can at present lack in order to keep these workers at home, so that in 10 to 15 years' time we do not realize that there is no health worker in this system, because it is empty. There have been a lot of thesis that has completely upset the thoughts that I wanted to say here during the debate. It's been said that one-day surgery is where today's health system is going. Yes, it is a very good system, a functioning model in Western Europe, but they do not add that at the moment in Hungary only 8 percent of patients are operated on in the framework of one-day surgical benefits. This is 80 percent in Western Europe. [[18.40]] They may remove the entire volume limit, but tell me three institutions in which this works perfectly. I know one thing, the morri, because every health care facility that has inpatient care, it's going on, there's one-day surgery everywhere. It can be the same in Tapolca, Ajkhan, Veszprém, Székesfehérvár, Siófok, Tatabánya, but no institution will survive if only one day of surgery, as will internal medicine. They also said that there is no need to put her in the hospital and treat medical diseases in the context of active inpatient care. Even though asthma cardiac disease patients are not sent by general practitioners, as well as hyperglycaemic coma has been cured in and out of inpatient care, it will continue to be. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have a two-minute speech. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps there is nothing more tangible about the extent of public health problems than the issue of hospital medicine, the everyday practice where patients have to bring in the necessary medicine because the institution is not able to produce it. Article 31 of the Minister for Health Decree No 41/2007 According to Section (1) of the Act, only medicinal products registered in an institution's pharmacy can be used in inpatient care, but they are part of everyday practice throughout the country. Me, too, my family member, a few days ago, was fortunate in this, so to speak, that the patients themselves had to take the medicines, even though the medical institution should clearly get the drugs and make them available to the patients. Why doesn't this happen? Because in the pharmacies of the institute, there is simply no money for this. There is not enough money in Hungarian hospitals to fully meet the needs of the medicine inside. Many times, due to overdue debts, they are unable to obtain certain medicines in the first place, and other times the unit prices of medicines are so high that they can no longer afford them from the monthly framework. If this amount of medicine was paid out by hospitals in accordance with the legislation, it would be such a high expense that there would be absolutely no money, the unfortunate institutions could put up a blackboard that was closed and send patients home unsatisfying. It is clear that the system is unable to function properly, in accordance with professional circumstances, as long as the government saves people's health. Think about that when you vote on the budget or when you're publicly told that's all there is to health care and that's it.
u2015-06-15-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since there are no two-minute speakers, we will move on to the next round. Member József Kovács asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Guests! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the initiative to convene this political debate on health, because we can exchange ideas on an extremely important issue, on everyone's part, I believe, with the intention of improving it, in addition to criticism. Unfortunately, in 2010, when the change of government took place, we inherited health in extremely distressing circumstances. The direct patient care was missing HUF 250 billion at the moment of receipt and HUF 400 billion from the E Fund itself. It can be said that, under the socialists' governance, health was the sector that suffered one of the largest withdrawals. I will not mention the dates here, not in 2002-2010, but in 2006-2010 in the first place. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It was then the crisis.]] This policy led hospitals to build up some 125 billion forints of debt by 2010, and we had to face the fact that three quarters of hospitals were heavily indebted, and 50 percent were practically bankrupt. We could not accept all this irresponsible period in 2008 and it is not possible to clearly support it today. We know that health care is still facing a lot of problems today, but there are hopeful and forward-looking processes that we have already heard about here, and that must also be discussed during such a discussion. Hospitals are getting renewed. Since the change of regime, the largest HUF 300 billion development has been launched in the sector, but this development can be almost doubled in the period 2007-13. If you look at the development as a whole, the rate of development is close to HUF 600 billion, and the debt reduction is ongoing year after year. We know that the solution would not be to reduce debt, but to prevent this situation from being consolidated. Health was, in addition to the problems raised, the sector and the first sector where, even to a small extent, the wage increase programme was launched, and the process of this is continuing at the moment. We have established health development offices across the country in which health advice and free screening are provided. In recent years, a number of other positive measures have been taken in the field of public health, which has already been detailed, and there has been a broad co-operation to combat and prevent cancer diseases. From 2009 onwards, local authorities launched campaign vaccinations against HPV, with local authorities providing financial assistance for vaccination of 13-14-year-old girls. It is a good thing that the government decided to include HPV vaccination in the vaccination programme as of 2014. In addition to the above, we have, on several occasions, also drawn up legislation on the protection of non-smokers, which has led to the ban on smoking in public spaces, in public spaces, and the introduction of public health product tax, and the reduction of the intake of trans-fats from 1 January 2012. A major development was also launched at the emergency services. The importance of the development is shown by the fact that no new ambulances ran in the country from 1 January 2008 to 2010 and there was no development in the ambulance service. In recent years, the OMSZ has spent some HUF 20 billion in state and EU funding to renew the ambulance park, buy new ambulances and ambulances, this work continues. Between 2008 and 2010, no new ambulances were ordered, until that time virtually no substantial preparations had been made for this. As a result, the car park did grow old, and some of the vehicles often needed to be repaired and withdrawn by purchasing new ambulances due to significant mileage and age. After the change of government, at the end of 2010, the government provided HUF 849 million in support to the OMSZ for this task. Between 2010-14, a total of 300 new ambulances were purchased, and at the beginning of this year, 21 ambulances were purchased from a government source of HUF 500 million. At the moment, 32 ambulances are being purchased from 770 million forints, which is in progress. In addition, the national rescue management system will be renewed from EU funds, which is also important, the patient transport system has been returned to the rescue management system. 22 new rescue stations are being built, 60 old upgrades are under way and will be at the National Rescue Service. In addition to the developments in the rescue service, I think it is important to mention that in recent years we have been able to achieve savings of approximately HUF 100 billion annually in the drug register, while the burden of patients has decreased in the purchase of medicines. Between 2012-14, the average price of more than 1,500 medicinal products decreased by 35 percent, resulting in savings of HUF 10.5 billion, and patients' chances of access to drugs were not diminished. This is true for chronic patients, but it was a saving of a thousand forints per month for all patients. [[18.50]] While in 2010 patients had to pay HUF 3,000 a month for the most commonly used and up-to-date supportive antihypertensive medicines, today one patient pays HUF 600 a month for the same thing. In 2010, patients paid an average of HUF 2200 per month for cholesterol-lowering medicines, which is another HUF 600 per month, but there are also medicines that cost only HUF 200 per month. You can go to the pharmacy and check these numbers. From 2010 we have provided support for 49 new active substances, which has helped more than 40,000 patients with significant cardiovascular, cancer, viral hepatitis, multiple sclerosis from a public health point of view, to highlight only a few types of disease. We've stopped paticalization and secured the majority ownership of pharmacists. It is also clear from what has been said that Fidesz-KDNP is committed to further improving the country's health situation. One of our main objectives is to continuously improve the health of the Hungarian population. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-15-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I listen to the debate with great interest, and it is particularly interesting to me when practitioners and former hospital directors give their opinions, because it gives me the impression that everything is okay here that everything has been done in health care. I always ask myself, if they had two-thirds governor power for five years, what they couldn't do, what they didn't have the opportunity to do. It certainly seems from these speeches that you have done everything but have problems. And it seems to me that very, very little has been done, and I'm not saying that it's because of your fault, but because of the government's actions, the budget's failure. And we are not arguing with you, we are arguing with the political leaders who have set annual budgets. We need to have that debate with them. They're sending four practitioners here to argue with us about health care, while those who made decisions not to have funding for basic care and not to have health care that is normally funded, and those who do not come here to argue with us. Let me tell you - obviously we have a lot of information - that we have collected at five points what we see as such problems. Some of them have already been affected by pro-government representatives. The most pressing problem these days is a shortage of professionals, which affects both doctors and nurses. In our opinion, hardly any steps have been taken to resolve this. Let me give you some specific, shocking examples. For the rescue service, volunteers are recruited at a taxi company for driving a car, because the low pay is such that the lack of drivers and the fluctuations are so high that they cannot perform the tasks. In many hospitals in Budapest, the possibility of beds capacity cannot be used by intensive classes - for example, in a fully equipped ward there are 6 beds instead of 12 beds - because there are not enough qualified nurses at the moment. I'm sure you don't think that if Secretary of State Czomba were here, he would say that this could be provided to qualified public workers later, or that there would be an alternative solution if we didn't deal with it now. In Szeged, two paediatric gynecologist districts were recently terminated because they were unable to find a doctor in the two districts. Many GP districts in Eastern Hungary are permanently unfilled. And where it is not full - that is what we have talked about recently, because we belong to a county called Szolnok County - there are only grumpy old uncles who are retired and would like to leave to spend their deserved rest, but they have no chance of getting out of here because no one is reporting. As a local government representative, I was confronted with the fact that we'd been preaching the practice over and over again, but no one wanted to come to Tourkeve to take over the practice of a family doctor. And what's next? Nurses go to Germany for a salary of around 1,500 euros to save them from this system. These are completely practical examples. There are not one or two hospital departments in Budapest where there are only one or two specialists, and in many places there are not even candidates for specialists to perform the care normally. And we have seen many examples recently that if a doctor retires at a specialist's office, it often ceases because there is no one else. Who else can do so that there is no professional emigration and a shortage of professionals, if not the government? Who else can change this with government measures, resources, motivational factors? This cannot only be an external factor, it cannot be something that could not be facilitated by appropriate financial and motivational systems. That's what we're looking for. It follows from the above that some diagnostic steps or therapeutic interventions should be taken for an unacceptable period of time. In addition to this lack of expertise, low resources for diagnostics obviously play a role, and we must always return to the draft budget before us, where most opposition parties would like to have much more resources for the health that you represent. I'm going to give you another specific example. A colon tumor is suspected, the waiting time for reflection is at least two to three months, but there are places where this can reach half a year, and in vain they declare that the test should be carried out within 14 days if there is no one to do it. The reason for the long waiting time is now clearly the shortage of specialists, the diagnostic labs take full advantage of their capacity. Otherwise, colonoscopy is mostly due to the suspicion of cancer, so there is nothing to prevent this from happening as a matter of urgency, so it should be treated. For MR studies, the waiting time is currently four to six months in most places, even if it can be a serious consequence of several months' delay in the study. But it's also dramatic around lab tests. Several labs do not carry out necessary, justified hormone tests because they are expensive and, if possible, try to get the patient to go somewhere else, and in other places they do not receive it because it may not belong there. And that's how it's gonna stay until the patient pays for his own examination, which is gonna take health care again in a direction none of us are supposed to want. The third serious problem, which keeps coming back, is the issue of underfunding, which is why hospital departments have far less than they need to spend in real estate. Hygiene regulations are damaged, because for financial reasons they can use sterile gloves instead of sterile gloves, there is no hand sanitizer, there is not enough linen. Typical example - not even working in health care, is experienced by everyone who comes into contact with healthcare - is that in most cases the paper is missing, and everyone has to carry it themselves, just as there is no soap. These patients should get them themselves. But it's also a practical example that the printer doesn't have paper or paint in it. As a patient, people who go into one of these facilities face these problems every day. Obviously, we also consider it a major problem that healing work is also damaged in the departments because of the lack of resources. Expensive, but necessary, and protocol-based antibiotics are often unable to be used by healthcare professionals, because class drugs are sometimes largely exhausted by patients' antibiotic requirements. In many intensive care units, there is little or no adequate means to provide a certain number of patients; this is once again an everyday experience. Surgery procedures cannot be performed several times, because available disposable devices cannot be purchased in the hospital in the amount needed. In particular, surgical departments cannot finance patients' regular medications, so in most cases patients have to use their own medicines from home completely out of line. It's also a back-to-back exercise that works on this, you know. Point 5: Support for home care is not appropriate at the moment, but this is also a social problem, by the department in which patients in need of long-term care are placed. The funding of chronic medical departments is very, very low, and, if necessary, a lab study is also problematic. In summer heat, dehydrated, undrinkable patients do not get an infusion, because the class does not always afford it. Unfortunately, these are also linked to everyday criticisms that my fellow opposition Members have said here. They must accept that the debate with you is not a debate because we disagree on something, but because we see their options differently. You, within your government, should represent these aspects within your group, should enforce your own professional skills, if only you could do so, then how can you obtain funds for this. And what they say, what they've done, we're not saying that it's negative or not good, we're saying it's not good enough, we need a lot more than that. And if we're talking about health care, obviously, there's still a lot going on. You are a significant part health professionals who are here, but my problem is that there are many, many lawyers in this government, and many, many lawyers think that they will make a paper and that will solve everything. This was also the case in the case of giving birth outside of an institution with specialist assistance, which we recently exchanged ideas about. They thought they were gonna make a law, and that's gonna solve it. It didn't work out. But in most cases, this is the case with patients' rights, where there are no adequate rules to respect and enforce them, the appropriate personal and institutional conditions are not guaranteed. [[19.00]] Obviously, you can go all the way back to health conservation and disease prevention. My fellow Members, because of my overweight, have assigned me the task of talking about health and health protection and how preventive approaches should appear in health care in everyday work. How should we ensure that not only the screenings mentioned by you are implemented, but that the most energy can be spent on prevention through a continuous dialogue, a continuous consultation. How health can be used for education for healthy lifestyles, consumption habits, lifestyle advice, and how the institution can be interested in providing not only capacity but also an adequate staff background. Obviously, when all this is described, we are criticising not the possible results you have achieved, but the unrealized tasks ahead of you. Because these two thirds of what they had for five years would have created the opportunity to make it right. It would have given the country the opportunity to improve its health situation and the health care system. We're not seeing this improvement right now. My apologies for asking you to take this matter to heart, why it has not been more effective, but you are here on behalf of the government and the ruling parties. Therefore, the criticism that this is insufficient, unfortunately we cannot tell anyone other than you. It would simply require a lot more resources, a lot more action, programmes that ensure either a shortage of professionals or the supply of healthcare equipment, and unfortunately, this requires a lot of resources and a lot of effort. We ask you, as pro-government representatives, within your pro-government political government, to represent this, and not to argue with each other, but with those who do not provide funds in the budget, but rather to those who may have the opposite effect in the longer term as we wish to achieve with this day of debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-06-15-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the number and content of the comments made on this day's debate adequately confirms that it is indeed an important one, I could also say that we are talking about a national sector and a question when we are dealing with the situation of Hungarian health. And it is really important that we listen to possible problems and together, in a constructive way, to this debate, and to be able to enjoy success where appropriate. As long as Sallai R. Benedek is in here, I'd like to advance that I'm not a medical policyr, a lawyer or a doctor, regardless of which I felt the issue was so important that I should comment. Obviously, the opposition's job is to make criticisms, and we can agree with that, but we may also see on the other side of the coin that this government does not inherit simple states. Earlier speakers have already told us what they inherited from previous governments in terms of health care in 2010. The fact is that we people are also prone to this, and it is true for all Hungarian people that we should always report on problems, shortcomings or even annoying personal experiences in relation to health care, the operation and operation of the healthcare system. I am sure that we all have such experiences, such experienced cases, either in the past or in the present. We could also believe that this is a special example, and this can only be observed in Hungary. A few weeks ago, I had an Internet survey, a research that tried to research from the most advanced states to the medium-developed and underdeveloped states in the form of a kind of survey on how people feel about state-funded health care around the world. And the thing is, more than 80 percent of all bad opinions have been made. Also in the case of well-functioning farms. So we are talking about a sector, honourable Members, in which I think it is very difficult to produce 100 percent, it is very difficult to achieve a state of satisfaction. It is also certain that when it comes to health care, we may all have the right to make demands, because we are all interested in providing a sufficiently high standard of care for health services. That is why we have the right to make criticisms, because one of our main treasures that we can get from the creator God, as I say, is our health. I think, therefore, that we are rightly trying to protect this and, where appropriate, to enjoy success together or to assess the problems together. It is certain, referring back to the past and 2010 that the period of socialist governments was indeed marked by harsh austerity, series of institution closures, unsuccessful hospital privatisations, mass redundancies, accelerated medical migration and the total debt of the sector. On the other hand, significant progress has been made since 2010. It has already been said here that in the years before 2010, HUF 400 billion was withdrawn from the Health Insurance Fund, HUF 250 billion from the Hungarian patient care system. The movement of doctors, which is now being referred to by my fellow Members in the benches of the opposition, started just before 2010. However, the problem still exists, but I think the decline in the trend is tangible. That's what measures have been taken. More than 6,000 health workers lost their jobs before 2010. So when we are talking about preserving health jobs, it would be good for my former colleagues in the government to think a little back before 2010. We all remember the success of the unsuccessful hospital privatisations, HospInvest and its associates. Institutional lockdowns, didn't they, last time the biggest storm was the closure of OPNI? This also did not happen in the time of the current government. The introduction of the visit fee and daily allowance, which, if I remember correctly, with a huge mandate, the Hungarians clearly said that they did not want this with more than 80% social rejection. By means of austerity, public sector workers overall lost about a month's wages in these times, as the real value of their salaries has been steadily reduced, there have been no wage developments. In fact, we had to learn about the concept of waiting lists by introducing a performance limit. However, the concept of waiting list has not been mentioned for so long, it is merely a few years, and it is not related to this government. Then we also remember the purchase of safes when, as the most Cardinal problem in health care, the first and most important measure of the then Minister of Health was the purchase of combination safes for all beds. As if the 70-80 - year - old pensioners had the biggest problem with where to hide their 24 - carat gold chains when they needed medical attention. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think that a lot of people can criticize the current state of health, the last five years between 2010 and 2015, but most of all, the socialists do not have the legal basis to do so, because they also had the opportunity to do something in order to advance health. What I would like to say here, instead of softening the national political panels, is how we lived in my constituency, the 4th constituency of Somogy, or how I lived in Somogy County or how we have experienced the development of health care, the development of health care systems in recent years. After all, fortunately, once again, despite the existing problems, we have a lot of positives to report. I could start with hospital development, since the Kaposi Mór county hospital was renewed from 17 billion forints, which gives not only the Kaposvár people, but also a sense of health security for the whole Somogy county and even the region. The reason why this project is kind to me is because at the time it was still Vice-President of the County Assembly... [[Dr. László Kács: We did it, you handed it over.]] No, we did not; we started in 2010, my dear fellow chef. We started that project as a county government operation and owned institution, in 2010. As much as it hurts, it did. The socialists had nothing to do with this. I wish I had, because it would have happened sooner. But I could say the hospital development in Nagyatád, which is in progress for 2 billion forints, or the hospital development of Siófok, which is very close to my heart, for 3 billion forints. In fact, the development launched in 2012 will make the investigation and care easier and faster, and a new central operating room, a sterilizer, a new helicopter landing, and new imaging diagnostic equipment and surgical devices will increase the hospital's equipment on nearly 1,200 square metres. [[19.10]] I believe that in addition to these large projects, we are also happy to see smaller developments in our region than the hospital in Siófok has been able to show in the last year, since, on its own initiative, without any support from the European Union, it has completely renewed its physiotherapy department, among other things. As a result, they can receive 100 patients a day in the department. It is also a great pleasure for us to renew the children's clinic, which was not only a health improvement, but indeed a strong development and step in the interests of the future generation, the children in Siófok and in the lives of more than 40 settlements belonging to the institution, I think it should be considered as a similar positive. We are also very happy with the KEOP funding. As a result, we will present a HUF 150 million development in Siófok on this Thursday. More than 800 solar panels were placed in the hospital building. By doing so, the hospital will be able to reduce its costs by more than HUF 7.1 million annually, and the hospital's CO2 emissions will decrease by 164 tonnes. It is also a huge achievement, and I think that the total annual amount of energy is generated by this 17 percent of the solar park. It is also good to talk about not only hospitals, but obviously the development of outpatient care centers, as improvements have been made in several places in the county, including in my constituency. Among other things, Tabon has been a truly XXI for HUF 1 billion in recent years. It's a century-old, modern, aesthetic outpatient care center, clinic. By the way, I could give similar examples of Fonyód, Balatonboglar, Csurgo or Barcs from outside my constituency. A lot of people also say that the reform of health care or the healing of health care - because no one claims that everything would be all right and healthy in Hungarian health care - so the healing of this large system really has to start at the first steps, at the basic care, or at the level of the general doctor. Indeed, that is true. This is the level where the patient enters the healthcare system. In this respect, too, I think we have good results to report. Again, I would like to set my own constituency as an example. Recently, a few days ago, more than HUF 443 million of funding was made available to municipalities from my constituency. A total of 12 settlements, not only for the five towns, i.e. Siófok, Tab, Balatonföldvár, Zamárdi and Igal settlements, but also for Ádánd, Andocs, Balatonszárszó, Bate, Magyaratád, Mernye and Taszár settlements. The settlements in the other three constituencies in the county were equally well featured in these applications. We've been talking about emergency services. Here, too, I would just like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the local features. Thanks to the national rescue station renovation, construction program, there are 22 new rescue stations and 60 rescue stations to be renovated. In my district, among other things, the long-standing rescue station of Siófok may be renovated. In our county, three new rescue stations can be built, in my district happens to be in the city of Igal, and also in Kadarkut and Böhönye, which will finally ensure that our troubled fellow citizens can get the proper health care and care within ten minutes or 15 minutes. There was also talk of ambulances. Several new cars have arrived in our area as well. Indeed, between 2008 and 2010 only one ambulance was purchased in Hungary. On the other hand, since then, we have reached almost 320 overall. When we talk about health care, we've talked a lot about numbers, forints, money. I think that well-functioning health care, in addition to infrastructural developments, obviously also requires wage-setting for healthcare workers. I think that the fact that health has survived at all the trials that have taken place since the change of regime is mainly due to Hungarian health care workers, technical staff, professional staff, nurses and doctors alike. Their vocation, without their ability to serve, I don't think that would have been feasible. Thank you so much for your work so far. I am very pleased that this government has been dealing with the idea of wage setting for many years. [[Dr. László Kács: Thinking, thinking? And the action?]] There have already been several increases in wages. The final solution, I think, will not be wage increases, just as the existence of debt consolidation in hospitals every year will ensure the solution, but will be the development of a new career model in the future. I am very pleased that further health wage increases are planned in the 2016 budget for both doctors and nurses. Obviously, there are problems, so let's not pretend there aren't. Indeed, waiting lists pose a serious challenge to our fellow humans who desire to heal. The good news is that the government is trying to reduce this, if I remember correctly, there was more than HUF 18 billion of resources available last year to reduce these waiting lists. [[Dr. László Kács: Six!]] The aim is to continue this in the future. Several people have already talked about speeding up oncology diagnostic tests, and there will also be opportunities, according to the government's plans, and I have just spoken about the importance of wage arrangements. In short, these were the thoughts I wanted to share with you. I have deliberately not presented national examples here, because many people have said this quite rightly many times. I do not think that anyone of us would claim that healthcare in Hungary works as we would like or would expect. But compared to what the current government received in 2010, I think there is more progress. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How long can we do this flashback?]] like difficulty or problem. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-15-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-271	Thank you very much. The Health Debate Day was initiated by the MSZP to have a professional debate, not to show your party soldier backwards in the penetration style to represent your own party, not the population, not your own voters. Because whether there's money in health care and whether there's money to raise wages, I'm just signaling quietly, it's just a political decision. My colleague, Mr József Kovács, said that between 2007 and 13 the largest infrastructure development in hospitals was the largest. In any case, it started from 2007 to 13 in our period, and we started it. Yes, the infrastructure has been developed, and now we need wage development. [[Mihály Witzmann: There is a very big problem!]] Because we're at the moment that you don't give your wages to not just physically, but emotionally exploited doctors. They won't give you the scale of the wage increase they deserve. Let's take a look. A public sector wage was 12 percent higher in 2006 than that of a comparable private sector worker, while in 2012 it was 30 percent lower. And he's 40 percent lower than the graduates. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]] In any case, my fellow Members, you should note that for both doctors and nurses and all health workers, the wages you pay today are unsatisfying. These people care for our children, our grandparents, and I think that the wage increase cannot be cut off from them. But if we look at the draft budget for 2016, the sector will not have a bright future. As we look at it, in the so-called convergence programme recently revised to Brussels, health spending will not really increase until 2020, almost without any increase in this programme. I think that we should really get back to the business and the style that Dr. Ágnes Molnár said, I think we should really finish it. You're a doctor, let's get back to the business, get back to health care. Therefore, I would like to read to you two press reports. I would like to read briefly the opinion of the profession, especially the residents. It is not enough to stress that without a substantial increase in resources, we do not see the safe provision of patients and the creation of adequate wages. We residents also face every day that hospitals often have to act against the law in order to meet political expectations. Doctors and workers are often instructed to perform tasks that endanger the safety of patients and the quality of specialist training. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Therefore, my fellow Members, read the notice of the Residents' Association. They're the doctors of the future. We're asking for your raise. Thank you. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: That's right! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-06-15-272	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Sebestyén, who edits, is next. Here you go, Congressman. [[19.20]]
u2015-06-15-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It has been interesting to listen to the debate so far, that MSZP and Fidesz-KDNP are shitting each other, trying to make each other responsible. [[Dr. László Kács: What are you doing?]] How the health department is doing. I'd say what many of us have already said... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We don't fuck with him.]] I just want to say that the genre of Parliament is not a dialogue, so you can press for two minutes, and you can tell me if you don't like what I'm saying. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The point is, they told me they were trying to blame each other, but they're all responsible. What the MSZP started, even starting from the listings, which even Ágnes Molnár said, so the MSZP started, continued the Fidesz-KDNP. I would only say from my own county what Fidesz-KDNP did in health care. Slowly all the small hospitals actually disappeared, the normal care ceased in all the small hospitals, in the mood of Esztergom, Kisbér [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Coma. For the former, the MSZP is faulty, which has been destroyed in health care, and there is no other hospital that functions normally - as normal as it can be called - so it operates in all its functions, the Tatabánya hospital. [[Zoltán Lukács: Which is not true. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's overloaded, and there's no room for services in that hospital, that hospital building. They've been levitating the construction of the new gazebo for years, and now it's started, because of technical errors, it doesn't continue as it should. [[Zoltán Lukács: It's ready. That's where you should live.]] We're gonna have to move the two major classes out of the sanatorium, so I don't know how health care in the county is gonna work. My fear is that it doesn't, by the way. Not even as much as it now works, that half-dead health professionals work in the building, sometimes lurking around the hall with sleep sickness, so overwhelmed, so tired; the same thing that started years ago, that they were doing surgeries on duty that should not be performed on call. So it's pretty bad. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, just to bring some constructivity to this debate today. I have a suggestion. As I, we can also say, am a frontier policyr, there is a very large deficiency in this human area, namely that communication between human areas and human sectors is not working. Social professionals complain about it, and health professionals complain about it very often, blaming each other that there is no proper dialogue between the two sectors, although very often the work of the workers in both sectors could be assisted by a living and regular relationship. I'd like to give you a common example. An elderly person from a nursing home is admitted to a health care facility. We are well aware of the state of health and mental health of the elderly who are in the nursing home because of the need raised to forty points; they do not seek each other, they do not discuss the problems. A lot of times, it's just that we know what a demented old man is like. It doesn't matter how we address him, it doesn't matter how we start our dialogue with him, and it doesn't even bother the workers in the two sectors, I'd say that there's no protocol for this, that they're interviewing each other, and at least they know how to get information from a sick person who's been admitted in such a case. So I urge that a protocol be developed to facilitate dialogue between the two sectors. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to Mr Witzmann's comment and allow me to start with a small story, certainly known by all of you. The MIR space station was wanted to be resupplyed by the Russians, with huge amounts of money being sent up into space - defeating gravity, reaching cosmic speed - food to the space station, and when this multimillion-dollar mission came up, it turned out that the ground crew had stolen the food and that the empty tubes had gone up. I could compare the beautiful hospital constructions that actually happened in my hometown, in my beloved residence, in Baja. It's a beautiful hospital, but when the equipment has to be taken from the old buildings, we see that mattresses are placed on the otherwise old rolled beds that are decades old, and they've been soaked with all kinds of things beyond the artificial skin patching. I also had the opportunity to experience this in person recently, unfortunately, so what beautiful looks mean. Four Directors General are now sitting in pro-government benches, yet I would like to speak to the IT specialist that I have also recently experienced the IT problem of the 21st century in health care. We're in the century, and the problem with computers isn't that we have to wait a long time for the medical history to finally come in, but it just doesn't work. They set up IT systems a few years ago that didn't have to transfer a medical history two years ago. So there's simply the modern computer, there's a new software, and it's not capable of looking back, because the company that created it didn't make sure that a medical history of many years ago was visible. Not to mention, when it comes to printing, there are dozens of printers in the hospital that need to be selected. So it's just complicated, not user-friendly. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-06-15-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's time for Congressman Mihály Witzmann. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. On the way from behind, István Ikotity spoke to me, so I would like to respond to him. With regard to the acquisition of assets, I can only tell you my own experience. One billion of the three billion projects in the Siófok hospital will be devoted to the acquisition of new equipment - surgical tools, diagnostic tools, furniture - and thus exactly 33 percent of the total resource. Moreover, in the case of the county hospital, a huge number of new equipment, new equipment and new furniture were purchased within the framework of a 17 billion-dollar programme. In terms of numbers, I can't tell you how much that means. On the other hand, I fully agree with your suggestion on software development. [[István Ikotity talks with Erzsébet Schmuck.]] Even if the congressman isn't listening right now. Indeed, there is a legitimate claim that the 21st EDF should be subject to the conditions laid down in Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In 20th century buildings, there are 21st century buildings. It should be a century-old software that truly provides a national link between the institutions, and at any point - this is no longer a serious challenge, I can fully identify with this opinion - whether we are in Bajan, Siófok or Tabon, wherever we are, they will know about the person in question according to the Social Security number, what his medical history was, what treatments were performed on him. I understand that there is significant progress in this regard, too, and that, obviously, Mr Secretary of State will also respond to this. With regard to the comments made by Congresswoman Anita Heringes, that between 2007 and 2013, there were the greatest developments, and that it was literally our period of... [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] Yeah, but here's the thing. You said it was our time. Dear Congresswoman, The biggest developments so far have indeed taken place in the period 2007-2013, because so far there has been nothing else. Now comes the 2014-20 period. However, the problem is that in 2010 there was a change of government, and whether you like it or not, in April 2010 there was a total of 6 per cent of all 8 000 billion EU funds in Hungary at the 2010 change of government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] , which was roughly related to the entire cycle. So I'd just like to say that this is the six percent that we've had to turn to 100 percent in recent years. So I'm not sure that you were the...
u2015-06-15-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Lajos Rig of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-15-279	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So much information has been said that I have now written several A4 papers. It must be made clear that HospInvest's name has only been mentioned so far, not MediSys Kft., which is linked to the same group of companies. The only difference is HospInvest Zrt. MSZP has occupied nearby municipalities, MediSys Kft. and Fidesz, see Tapolca and Körmend. There is a court case against both groups of companies, but so far there has been no judicial judgment, even though both companies have abused OEP funding. You can throw those bags at each other here, which are now filled with fecals, but it doesn't make sense. The National Rescue Service also said that they are carrying out constructions and investments, which they need, but the amount to be saved in 2015 is the same as in 2016. At the rescue station, the emergency services are in emergency care, so there's no mention of prevention. Usually, the health care system begins by preventing it, but in the National Rescue Service, this procedure does not work. 2.3 billion-dollar hospital development is currently taking place in Tapolca. There is only one problem with it, which I mentioned in my previous speech, that I miss professionals. The hospital is building a lung rehab pavilion, building on pulmonary rehab, but there are no active-age lung rehab specialists in the institution. Thank you, that's all I wanted. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.30]]
u2015-06-15-280	Thank you very much. Mr Congressman, I would like to tell Mr József Kovács that I have no opportunity to give him two minutes, because I have the opportunity to give an opportunity to speak in accordance with the regulations of the House. At the next speech, if he maintains his claim. I would also like to inform the House that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, indicated in his letter to Mr László Kövér, Speaker of the House, that the Group of the KDNP, in the political debate, will waive the further timeframe of the group for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I'll ask you to tell me that. And I would like to ask my fellow Members from the MSZP to quote this version of their wishes. [[Zoltán Lukács: Why? We were just clapping.]] 'Cause they accidentally hit their hands, and they're gonna need first aid. [[Dr. László Varga: Can't you clapping now? Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, from the Group of the LMP; Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in the debate on budgetary amendments, I said, among other things, that the country was split in two, and now I have to say that the country was divided in health terms. Both in terms of care and the health of the people, the country is divided into two distinct parts. Better domestic care is available to those who are already in a better position, while worse, more difficult to access care is provided to those who are already in a worse situation. The country remembers well the debates about whether we should allow people to pay for care, risking a separate health care for the rich and for the poor. The country remembers the great voice Fidesz has played against the aspirations of socialist-liberal governments. But now they're quiet. As if today's pro-government politicians no longer have anything to say. Well, there's something to talk about, there's some questions you should answer. Above all, how, despite all their claims, two levels of healthcare have been created in Hungary. Let's say that if the government side doesn't admit it: today there is private health in Hungary and it is gaining more and more space, while more and more poor people are getting worse care. This health system differentiates between primary and secondary patients. Whatever you call this health care system on the government side, if you get sick, you know exactly how much the quality of care will depend on how much you can pay for it. If you do not receive the necessary care near your place of residence or because you do not have or because there is an impossible long waiting list, you may have to travel to the other side of the country. Do I need to explain to you that we are already talking about a paid healthcare service? If the patient has to take medication to the hospital, are we not talking about paying medical services? If the quality of care depends on how much money you can slip to doctors, are we not talking about paying health care? What else is there to pay for health care? Where care is to be paid, the poor and the rich receive special care. Where care is to be paid, two levels of healthcare are created. Then, on the one hand, there will be elite care, and there will be poor hospitals. In this country, with such poverty and an increasingly deteriorating health system, the consequences of this are disastrous. People's health is deteriorating, data are desperate. The fact is that the number of cancers has increased and more and more people are responsible for their deaths, and even more and more of the cases involving minors, brain tumors and white blood have been the most common and fatal cancer in juveniles. We may have gotten used to producing the worst statistics in Europe in circulatory diseases and related deaths, but this is already the case with cancer. The country's risking its future if you don't do anything. You can work around the health system, you can do magic with the hospital structure, but until the funding is fixed by the government, it only increases trouble. Dear Parliament, Everyone is aware that we are talking about decades of problems. Things didn't go wrong under the current government, not only the former socialist-liberal governments are responsible for the situation. But there is a common responsibility for the parties that have so far been ruling that they have not reversed the process. We know that such a problem can only be dealt with through a comprehensive, systemic solution. However, according to the LMP, it cannot be considered as a solution; it is simply not acceptable that governments have done anything else to date but have allowed it to, and sometimes have explicitly facilitated, the development of two-tier care. This is a serious historical mistake. To turn a blind eye to the fact that there are more and more people in this country whose health depends on how much money they have, the most humiliating injustice a government can do to people. In addition, poverty can be proven to be associated with malnutrition, but it is linked to obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases. The poor are exposed to greater everyday stress, which also affects their overall health and psychic performance. It is particularly outrageous that many of those who work in domestic health care are in the same danger, because their earnings do not always provide healthy food, and their daily livelihood problems are a constant source of stress. We can't help but see that the professionals on whom our lives depend are forced to leave the country in a row, because otherwise they couldn't support their families are intolerable. The list of health shortages already includes 19 professions. Today, not only the drugs are missing from our health institutions, but also the professionals. There's nothing to cure, there's no one to heal, and people's health is getting worse. In some parts of the country, the conditions are typical of war hospitals. In this situation, superhuman work is cured by those who can still stand by their vocation or country. LMP has been trying to draw attention for months: the eradication of workers' poverty is the most urgent task in Hungary today. There are more and more people who can't make a living on decent work. Employees' poverty is particularly serious for health workers. Just one example, but a lot of health workers are in the same shoes: even after 35 years of employment, a clinical worker still earns HUF 75,000 net. How do you think it's possible to raise children, school and start them on their own? But the technicians, the nurses, the assistants, the specialist assistants, the beginning of their careers, and later. Today, the situation is that doctors and nurses who work abroad explain why they are not staying home, while we should be looking at them and apologizing to government politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is Parliament's day of debate on the health situation, and from tomorrow we will be discussing other issues. However, the LMP does not consider the debate to be closed. We think the debate is just beginning. This debate has some ground rules that we do not consider questionable. First of all, poverty cannot be the same as disease. No one can depend on his recovery or survival as to how much money he has. Those who do not accept this have abandoned basic social solidarity. Secondly, the further deterioration of the health situation can only be stopped by radical withdrawal. Every decision that isn't about that just means avoiding the problem, that the government can't do anything about it. We can't even begin to think that he might not want to. Thirdly, health care cannot be treated in the government's residual principle. You can't see him as just one of the many problems to be solved. We need a systemic solution, a consistent and honest policy. Fourthly, if the government wants paid health care, admit it. If you don't want what we sincerely hope and demand, then don't allow it with hidden means. Dear Parliament, Health is too expensive not to spend it. The long-term costs of today's situation will be tremendously high. We need immediate radical and systemic intervention. We need equal, better quality care and respected professionals to stop the country from breaking up again. Thank you for your attention. [[István Ikotity applauds.]] [[19.40]]
u2015-06-15-282	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament is coming. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's an ongoing withdrawal of funds in the health care sector. The problem is, they know that it doesn't matter what periods we compare to each other, that if we move forward in time, less money goes to people's health, to preserve people's health. Now, at the moment, living in 2015, there should be about 380 billion forints more money in health care to be at the level where we were in 2010. No, I don't want to insult what's going on right now, no, I want to encourage you to reconsider what you're doing. They have not yet adopted the 2016 budget, think over, and as a result, let's say, in at least two or three areas of health, in the field of education, I will say no more, at least in these two areas change their original appropriations numbers, change, because otherwise nothing will be fulfilled from what Mr. Secretary of State spoke about for 40 minutes in his introductory Expo. No, because then the waiting lists won't improve, there won't be a waiting list like we'd like there to be no waiting list, or the waiting list will be shorter. If prevention is not used, then for people with colon cancer, which would require a few hundred million forints only in order to carry out appropriate diagnostic procedures, it could lead to the survival of many people. You know, Commissioner Secretary of State knows that more than 5,000 people die in a given year precisely as a result, i.e. as a result of the fact that the HUF 600-800 million is not put into the system to carry out appropriate diagnostic procedures. And, you know, it's even necessary for those people who work in health care to be respected, not those people to be in the position of income below the average Hungarian wage. It is not random that mass emigration has begun, that the number of emigrants has quadrupled in three or four years. And, you know, the one who once left, bringing it home with any programs is a lot harder than keeping it home before. One word, if you look at what happened after 2010 in terms of wages, you can see, you know: in 2011, approximately 40-50 thousand forints were taken from a simple health worker a year. In 2012-13, everything that was given, if any, was not chartered, so it went away. By 2014, we got to the point that the money in health care is about 25 thousand forints less than the average income. One word as a hundred: prevention, along with wage increases and more money in health care. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-15-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor from the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-15-285	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have written the words of Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck: a coherent and honest policy is needed. I fully agree with this, and when I quote what I have heard so far in today's debate, I see that, on the one hand, we have been talking about measures over the past five years, and it is also appropriate to be consistent and honest, it has also been said about what tasks should be carried out in the future, and also about the government side that I personally agree with, of course, that there are countless tasks ahead of us in the field of health. Allow me to briefly say a few words about the last five years and the tasks ahead of us. As far as the last five years are concerned, I must argue with the statement that there has been a continuous withdrawal of funds. Dear House, the proposals for closing accounts discussed by Parliament confirm the exact opposite, the numbers that are public and which are about basic care, wages or financing of the institutional system do not prove that there has been a withdrawal of funds; just the opposite! It is natural that it could have been spent in each area, more resources could be spent, even more respect could be given to those in the healthcare sector, whom we all owe only thanks for performing their duties, but we still need to see it, and you need to be able to see exactly what financial situation the country was in in 2010; what a real economic situation the country was in. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] within the limits of which the wage increase or basic supply increase measures have been implemented. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Nándor Gúr intervene.]] Honourable House of Representatives, let me therefore draw attention to this real economic aspect of public finances. They know exactly what growth figures were in Hungary and in the European Union, they knew exactly how much public deficits we had, they know exactly what sanctions we had to face in the context of the excessive deficit procedure. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yet we built stadiums!]] In this environment, the government has implemented measures in the health sector with which it has not raised funds [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] but, at most, redistributed resources. There was much talk about the measures taken at the drug register without any increase in the burden of the patient; yes, the funds saved here were reinvested by the government to the fact that, for the first time in 2012, a wage increase could be made in the public sector in the field of health. [[Nándor Gúr: Where is the basic supply? Where's the basic supply? Talk about basics.]] These additional resources have been reinvested by the government in order to achieve a significant increase in basic care. The figures show that in the area of basic supply, 40 percent increase was possible compared to the years 2010 and 16 respectively. And when we talk about whether the government has introduced new taxes, because of which the opposition is critical of the government, yes, let us say that the public health product tax was a measure with which the government wanted to create a source in health, I add, by means of a market-based impact on the price of products whose excessive consumption is demonstrably harmful to health. So, by means of an economically-known instrument, he tried to influence consumption, reduce the demand for unhealthy products, and at the same time provide additional resources for health expenditure. As far as health is concerned, how much the government has focused on health, or how much it has not, it is also important to see that not only health has been very stressful, but also many other areas, and it must also be acknowledged that the government has focused its resources on many other areas in this very difficult situation. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes. Attila Mesterházy: Stadium!]] Let me mention two: job creation and families. Why this? Because you know perfectly well, we all know that the basis for a sustainable public finance management is that there should be a source of health, education, social sector, a well-functioning economy. For this reason, the government had a fundamental aspect of strengthening the economy and, for example, ensuring the possibility of future resources by creating jobs. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Nándor Gúr intervene.]] Statistics are once again known: significant employment expansion has been achieved [[Nándor Gúr: England, Germany!]] , thanks for example to the measures taken to protect the workplace. One more thing about families: health is also strongly linked to the fact that a worsening demographic situation puts even more pressure on health, because if the coral is bad, people who are advanced in their lives, older people need much more care. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] so that the working layers producing income are reduced. Now, this unfavorable chorus, which the government had to turn around, has therefore focused some of its resources on giving birth to the desired second-to-third children and providing significant resources to families with the family discount. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Dear House of Representatives, I highlight these because it is important to see that, in addition to addressing health problems, the government has faced challenges in many other areas to which it has had to respond. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] and where, I think, it has succeeded, whether in terms of job creation or strengthening families. Let me mention one more thing. When we talk about whether a sector deserves more resources or not, we also say that the part of good governance is that every spending surplus or every tax reduction can be achieved without increasing the burden of future generations. I report that in the last five years, the government has done this: it has spent additional resources in the field of health [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] focused on increasing the number of jobs, providing additional resources to families by getting out of the excessive deficit procedure that has been mentioned a lot, and our real economic indicators, I think, are very positive. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[19.50]] This responsible farming is what all governments must follow. With regard to the future, I agree with the opinions that concern the government's many tasks in the field of health and indeed in many other areas. My statement is that the government is taking new measures in the field of health as well. The 16th budget is before the Honourable Parliament. They know that wage measures are also responsible for additional resources, in line with the capacity of the economy to bear the burden, as well as basic care. What's responsible is... [[Moore and intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Stadium! The stadium can wait! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Members, as regards responsible farming, let me say that the amendments tabled have been evaluated. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: 7 billion!]] Yes, Members, yes, let me say that the joint impact of the amendments tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party and the amendments to the tax laws is about HUF 1500 billion. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Gőgös: The economy is raging!]] results in a greater deterioration of the balance. How is that possible? Let me give you some specifics. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: How many taxes have you introduced? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The amendments tabled by the Socialist Party would reduce the HUF 100 billion National Defence Fund by HUF 401 billion. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Please, when I... [[Continuous noise and interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] Congressman!
u2015-06-15-286	Two more speeches, and then two minutes later. In the meantime, they're trying to listen to you, too, Congressman, and that's all I have to offer you as a notary. Mr. Nándor Gúr, you must be the most exemplary, you are the notary of the Parliament. I'll be waiting for him to push two minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Noise and intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: The representatives of the government can be expected to do the same!]]
u2015-06-15-287	When we talk about responsible farming and responsible policy-making, my concept also includes providing additional resources in the field of health, education, by providing them. If the amendments tabled by the Hungarian Socialist Party were adopted, as I said, the deficit would be HUF 1500 billion greater. I'm asking what the effects of this could be. [[Continuous noise and interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] With all due respect, I must also say that the same deterioration in the balance is visible [[Continuous noise from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Even the Betterman's proposals. We don't see that at LMP. The LMP has the opposite of all the amending proposals submitted in the budget, but the tax side shows a deficit of HUF 1400 billion. With respect, I ask once again that when we make improvements, we do not influence responsible farming. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: You have no idea what you're talking about!]] I think, as I said, that there are tasks ahead of us in the area of health, and that requires a constructive proposal requiring a real solution. And as for improving the health situation, let me finally highlight one thing. I think it is appropriate not only to talk about wage matters, very important wage matters, the financing of the institutional system, but also about the steps that can be taken to improve the health situation of the whole country, the nation. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] It should also be seen that there have been important and serious steps in the area of the public health programme in the area of tobacco control. [[Zoltán Grumpy: Everybody smokes black cigarettes!]] or the introduction of daily physical education. If further proposals are made here, I think that we should also discuss them, so that when we talk about Hungarian health care, we can talk about a healthier country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-15-288	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Continuous noise and interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: One of the most intelligent state ministers, but he won't last three months, he'll fail! Péter Benő Banai: These are factual things I was talking about!]] The next speaker was Mr László Varju, an independent Member. Here you go. [[Continuous noise and interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] I would like to ask you to restore the congressman's time frame. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-289	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Probably here in the past and the ongoing debate, which Mr Secretary of State is still unwavering [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It also follows the data that is not only about the budget, but also about what has not happened. The Secretary of State has also paid particular attention to the efforts to explore sources of health problems. However, explorations, which appear in the form of surveys and in the search for different solutions, are for the time being nothing but stallion, inertia, and, worst of all, people in health care are in a situation that has made them completely vulnerable, and it is important to think that being sick today is one of the greatest risks in Hungary. It's just that as you referred to it, you don't decide whether you want to be sick or not, and you can't provide the conditions for healing. To refer to some numbers of this, how this responsibility and this service option have been removed, it means that over the past few years, since 2010, 9431 healthcare workers have left the country. Of this, 5348 is the number of doctors, and I say quietly that 8080 doctors are working today in total health care. That's what characterizes the policy, the health policy that you do. But in addition to sweeping the problems under the carpet and their very spectacular stadium launch policy, it is also apparent that 40 percent of those leaving abroad were, by the way, from the age of 25 and 29 years, the serious consequence of which is that a significant proportion of those remaining here are over 50 years old, so doctors in health care suffer very severely from lack of supplies. Before the consequences and consequences, I should mention one more thing, perhaps interesting for you, so that thirty of the doctors who graduated and left abroad in 2014 chose Romania. On the basis of this, it is safe to say that it does not exist much lower than this, because if we count 26,000 nurses missing from medical institutions, then what you have done in recent years is increasingly questionable. If the answer is to be answered, they have actually put nothing, more and more damage, and patients in an increasingly difficult situation. It shows up, you can see it in the clinics, you can see it in the hospitals. You can see when you're talking about hospital debt, when you're pretending to take over the debt by mischief. The result of this in the economy, as has already been done elsewhere, is that, by the way, those who have been a fair supplier of health care will have to make an offer to them for a much smaller proportion of the previously supplied services that are otherwise legitimate. As a result, the waiting lists are increasing in addition to hospital debts. To sum up, for now - to give myself a little time - I can tell you that everything you have not decided on in the past has not been acted on is a serious consequence here: patients are in an impossible situation in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Tibor Bana is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, we have also faced very negative processes in the field of health in Vas County over the past years. All I have to say is that three years ago, Fidesz stopped obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in Körmenden with a single stroke of function change and efficiency, and in Celldömölk with active internal medicine and active surgery. Meanwhile, you, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, honourable secretary of state, are talking about unprecedented developments in the field of health, but, for example, the situation with regard to the investment in Körmend, which was announced in the parliamentary campaign last year, is that we have to face a very serious slippage compared to the promises made at that time. In contrast, they stood very strongly against the rural ruining steps of both the Gyurcsány and the Bajnai governments, but since they came to government in 2010, you have been characterised by a different attitude and a different foundation, and you have taken measures in the healthcare sector that are integral to the line started by your socialist, free democrat predecessors. [[20.00]] In 2012, Jobbik protested against layoffs with all possible means, in addition to my parliamentary speeches, we held a demonstration in Körmend, like in Celldömölk, and in my hometown, Körmenden, we also collected signatures for obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine, and the people in the region were almost unanimous for the institution, as 5 000 people signed the arches in a very short time. It would be essential to restore the terminated classes for the Celldömölk and the Körmend institution. Unfortunately, these two hospitals are now only the premises of the Markusovszky Hospital in Szombathely. In terms of machinery parks at rescue stations, modernisation and enlargement would be needed to ensure safe care for patients. In this context, serious promises have been made, but they have not been fulfilled either. The Celldömölk people are still waiting for the Ambulance, but they still haven't arrived. My city, Szentgotthárd's rescue station, would also need a new ambulance, even for a long distance from the county seat. With regard to ambulances, we can see the same in Vas County as at national level, with extremely low wages and difficult working conditions, it is no accident that more and more people leave their jobs there, the situation is worse every day, ambulances stop and these cars are ruined. The maladministration in the rescue management centre in Szombathely could also be discussed for a long time. The Vas County people therefore expect the Government to take substantive measures, and I will certainly confront you with the promises and declarations that you have made, and I will do so here in Parliament and in other forums until there is a substantial positive change in these matters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. It is now possible to speak to Mr József Kovács, who will be followed by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-06-15-293	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of Congressman Rig, the amount of the basic fee has remained unchanged, and for a long time this ominous figure has been HUF 150 thousand. The State Health Service Center carried out a 2014 survey - you can get it on the relevant news portals - according to which the sum of the one-weight was 206 thousand forints in 2014, not at that address, regardless of which the basic fee should be raised, we understand the need, but this is the sum of one-weight. With regard to waiting lists, I would definitely like to protect the sector, and I will also tell you why. Because, compared to the European average, waiting lists in Hungarian health care are significantly lower than the European average. In this respect, I think it is not worth scaring people; there are exceptions; this needs to be improved, but Hungarian waiting lists are far better than the European situation. The next question is the intake of the medicine, and I would like to refer to my fellow Members in the LMP. Patients do not need to take medication to hospital today. You don't have to take him in. The other issue is that patients take with them special high-supported medicines under subject law for their own safety, but even if they cannot carry them, health institutions must provide this care. With regard to the development of wages, I really believe that the needs are absolutely justified. The Secretarys of State Banai and Sombor are much more authentic than I am, but recently there have been a certain rate of wage development of 18,000 doctors and 43,000 medical workers. Finally, in order to rationalise, under the supervision of the State Health Supply Centre, regional and county professional conciliation forums seek to: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] bringing solutions towards professional rationalisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In today's debate, there has been relatively little talk about prevention, and I may not even have heard of the need to talk about people's responsibilities in order to protect their own health. With regard to prevention, I would like to highlight three items. One is the state of the environment, the other is nutrition, and the third is lifestyle, a healthy lifestyle. I think that all of them should be carefully considered and explored, because it is now quite obvious that the bad environment, air pollution, water, not to mention climate change, have a very serious impact, have a negative impact on human health, and here the role of environmental harm in cancers, for example, is estimated at various percentages, probably more and more. So when we talk about health and the future of health, it is certain that this issue needs to be focused on achieving a better environmental quality, because it has a very serious impact on people's health. The other is nutrition. Not so long ago, I was here on one of my agendas talking about quality hunger. It should be noted that proper, correct nutrition, quality food is also very seriously linked to human health and is an important factor in prevention. The third is a healthy way of life, a healthy way of life. It is very important whether people live or move their lives, and in this respect mass sports and not sport are very important. And everyday stress is still linked to all of this, so you have to live a way of life so that people can get rid of stress as much as possible, because it also has a very negative impact. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-15-296	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It would be good if they talked to each other at the level of State Secretary, because here we have heard the opposition have tabled a lot of amendments, and last week we listened to Katalin Novák and Secretary of State Szabó say that we should dare to be courageous, and that we should introduce amendments because he doesn't see them. It is true that Katalin Novák had no idea how many amendments we tabled, because he criticized that we did not dare to submit an amendment, and here you come with the number of amendments tabled. So, talk to each other, because it looks like there's a lot of confusion in the ministries at the Secretary of State level. The other thing is, if we were talking about waiting lists, some interesting data, I just looked at it on the OEP website. Cataract surgery: average 190 days, 22 260 waiting, maximum waiting 430 days, 2016. CHAPTER VI There's a schedule for the 19th. Hernia surgery, no implants: average 198 days, 3242 waiting days, maximum 965 days, 2018. CHAPTER IX The 12th - hernia surgery! - there's a schedule. Knee replacement: 685 days average waiting, 9239 waiting, 2021. CHAPTER III There's a schedule for 18. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] Urological surgery - emphasized - 435 days, although there are only 67 waiting, I did not understand, 2016. ANNEX II The schedule's at 3:00. Hip replacement: 457 days, 4776 people waiting, most 835 days, 2019. CHAPTER XII There's an appointment for 11:00. Obstruction due to pectoritis, laparoscopic: 158 days, 2222 waiting, 2018. I. There's a schedule for the 30th. Stomach hernia surgery without implants: average 109 days, 1755 people waiting, 594 days waiting in Hungary. Orthopedic major surgeries: average 565 days, 2017. CHAPTER VIII There's a schedule for the 18th. And if we look at the regional distributions, imagine what it'll tell us, I've already checked. We are talking about regions in Southern Transdanubia, regions in northern Hungary; you know, regions that are among the poorest 20 European regions. Here are the highest waiting lists in Hungary. So, I think we can talk here, just, Mr. Secretary, we should do something after five and a half years, not just refer back to eight years. [[Nándor Gúr: This is a shock, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-298	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Zoltán Magyar is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[20.10]]
u2015-06-15-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The first words should certainly be a thank you, because I believe that in this debate very little has been said about people working in health care, although they should be the most discussed in this debate, and I would also like to thank you for your sacrifice, indeed superhuman, what you are doing, even in these circumstances. I'm pretty sad to see that KDNP hasn't even talked about the 25 minutes it's had, even though I think there's plenty to talk about, there's plenty to account for the last five years' work. And the way the MSZP and Fidesz are fighting each other in the debate, I would really just say that I would ask for a coffee, of course, if it were not a tragic situation, but that we were talking about how dearly low health workers earn, what waiting lists there for various surgeries, and if we did not know that nearly ten thousand health workers have left our country in the last five years. If we didn't know these data and these numbers, we might as well say such funny things. My narrower environment, my constituency, has also been seriously affected by the transformation of health care, because we have come to the conclusion that during Rába, which is a fairly large geographical unit, it is not possible to be born today. The Rábaköz, which is really, I must say, is a very ancient, very traditional and very diverse unit of my county, which embraces a large geographical area, a part where two cities over 10,000 are located, Csorna and Kapuvár, but it is not possible to be born there. And there are a lot of other problems with these two institutions. I regret that the socialist and fidesz shift economies of the last decades have brought health problems to the point that I have been able to list only problems in numerous speeches and written questions about these two hospitals, and that the situation is getting worse year after year. But I can also provide an example of my own environment, my narrowest environment, when an abdominal ultrasound, to which the general physician specifically asked the patient to get to as soon as possible, because there may be a problem, an appointment will be made for two months, say, in a city hospital, and of course, if you put down the 6,000 forints and go on private order, then the investigation will take place on the same machines, the same doctor, in the same room. So there is plenty to talk about here, and I believe that these are the problems that very little has been said here in today's debate. There's more to hospital food. Although I am an agricultural politician here in Parliament, we could argue for a very long time if not so little time-frame was provided on how to integrate Hungarian quality agricultural products into health catering so that it does not significantly increase the health register. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congresswoman Bene Ildikó is next. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-301	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to one thing, my fellow Members, on the waiting list. The data you've listed-- I'd like to clarify that there's a waiting list and there's a patient list. The waiting list is when the patient is nicely added to the list based on the test. The list of appointments, and what my fellow Member has just listed, is likely to result from these data, because in a planned surgery, whether it's a gallbladder surgery or a hernia surgery, so what doesn't have to be done urgently, and the patient says that I can get it done then, is really that. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] My fellow Member, believe me, for the record, it happens. Therefore, these lists and these patient-requisite lists can also provide this long waiting period. There's one more thing I want to talk to you about, and this is one day of surgery. My fellow Member said that it is unfairly low and that it works abroad and in Western Europe. Indeed, you know, this requires a change of attitude from the medical staff to the patients, so that they can accept that the care that had been put in the hospital for up to three or four days can now go home in the afternoon and heal safely. That's why I said at the beginning in my little summary that I had to give positive incentives, and when these positive incentives from OEP on the waiting list were, let's say, in the case of cataract surgery, or in the case of a one-day surgery with extra funding, these could be the methods to divert patients and patients in this direction. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-302	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. At the same time, a two-minute speech will be held by Mr István Ikotity. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-303	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the pro-government speeches and answers, they always try to call ambulances heroes, but the appreciation lasts so long, because there's no sign of that in wages. Exodus is one of the worst earners of health care. Healthcare workers make bad money compared to other sectors, so they earn even less than little. But not only are there wage problems, but in recent weeks more and more rescue workers have said the same thing, namely that the shortage of professionals has led to the fact that ambulance drivers are forced to play an understudy role in the care of the patient. In many cases, this is done without proper training. The question is whether we can say that the rescue is still safe. Of course, there are plenty of professionals everywhere on paper, but in reality, the days are marked ahead in weekly schedules when there is no ambulance doctor. But the paper doesn't show that a paramedic is actually a paramedic on a given day. But if anything goes wrong, who will be responsible? The management whose hands are washed clean? Or is it the responsible politicians who claim that everything is okay without blinking? Or is he always the top-ranking paramedic who is forced to go to court for legitimate pay; who has been trying to tell every forum for years that there are huge problems because there are not enough professionals or ambulances? Unless, of course, your superiors forbid you to talk about reality. But one thing's for sure: in the end, an EMT who works for the price of food always takes the fall for the basically flawed organization. This was experienced in the context of rescue control not too long ago, when the blame was also taken by a competent quarterback, who, fortunately, was finally returned to the ranks, as far as I know. But I don't really think he had the sole responsibility here. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-304	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, a two-minute speech will be held by Congresswoman Anita Heringes. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-305	Thank you very much. The data listed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély can be found under the heading of Varolista.oep.hu, Questioning Waitlists. And as a representative from South Transdanubia, I can say that this is, for example, one of the worst, 570 days. So, fellow Members, I think that until this goes under a month, there are very big problems, because when you suffer from something, it is the worst. Thank you.
u2015-06-15-306	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Szabó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been many things, and I would like to say a few words about basic care, including the situation of human resources. And I would like to give you an example of what my fellow Member Sallai has already tried to say. We are talking about Szeged, Szeged, as far as we can see, the third largest city in the country, and indeed, there are 35 home-grown pediatric districts, and one of the 35 home-school pediatric districts in one of the districts - I would like to say, we are talking about a 5,000-year practice - the general practitioner turned in his district, more specifically, he tried to sell it for the first time, but this failed, and then he turned in the district. The municipality, as a primary care provider, had twice reached out to the district, could not find a doctor, and finally, the solution was to divide the residents of the district among the three other pediatric practices. I just wanted to point out from this, ladies and gentlemen, that Szeged is indeed the third largest city in the country, and although I know that this is a problem in small settlements a long time ago, but we have come this far, this is the first time that we have not found a family pediatrician for a practice. Immigration and ageing characterizes health, which concerns human resources, for which immediate and urgent action must be taken, Mr Secretary of State. We are in the twenty-fourth hour, and it is clear, and it must be made clear that there is no right-wing or left-wing GP or right-wing or left-wing hospital, there is a problem, and there is a task to be solved. [[20.20]] I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State - I think he will say something at the end - how they intend to resolve the issue of emigration or how they intend to respond to ageing. And I would just like to say to Mr Banai State Secretary that, as much as you like to protect the mund, it is clear that in this government neither health nor the social sector nor education are priorities. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now would be an opportunity for two-minute speeches, but I don't see a candidate. A proper speech will come from the MSZP Group, Mr Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have listened with interest to this debate, and I think it also shows that this area needs an independent ministry. We shouldn't have degraded this story into a certain slice within a large system. I think we can still change that. Mr Secretary of State said here what amendments had been proposed. Several people have mentioned our proposal for wage development, how we think this is going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, perhaps we alone have a moral basis to demand 50 percent wage development, because when the public sector and health sector were in a similar situation in 2002, we did this. We have not talked about it as my fellow Member here from Fidesz, saying that they have been thinking about it for five years, that we have not thought about it, but that we have done it, and that is now one of the biggest problems. There's been a lot going on right now, but we didn't talk about little villages. My fellow Member, Szabó, indicated that he could not find a pediatrician in a 5 000-proxis area in Szeged. Then you can imagine how they will find about 400 places to be a village general practitioner. And the village has exactly the same people, but they are in a much, much worse position, and when we try to war numbers with the waiting lists, we have to acknowledge one thing: we are there, my fellow Members, that those who have money will achieve everything in this area, and those who do not have it, and those who do not have it, have to suffer and wait. This should be changed by a more normal distribution system, which is why there should be more resources, which is why, for example, the possibility of offering corporate tax should be added to this sector, and not just to various visual sports. So there would be a lot of areas that could help this sector. Many people here mentioned the 300 HUF visitation fee. Did anyone ask the GPs what they said about that? At that time, there was about normal order, because believe me, no one gave you any gratuity money, because he felt that he had given something to treat him, but he also had some responsibility to avoid the burden of health care for everything if he didn't have to. That's what you've been making an 80-percent referendum for. I would add that such a referendum cannot be held since you are in government, because according to the Fundamental Law, there is absolutely no possibility of such a referendum. Not to mention the role of the Constitutional Court at that time and the current Constitutional Court. I think these are the issues that should be addressed in principle. Now we should not be thinking about how we will be able to improve some of the unpaid bills by firing them, because these accounts are being re-produced. Hospitals obviously thank you for this opportunity, but also pay attention to the fact that from the next day, as soon as this has been paid, they will not pay again because there is nothing to do with it, because the distribution system is wrong. You have to put money in this sector, or the little man will suffer again. That is why we have to fight, and that is why we have this debate today, to wake up the current government to this, that this cannot go on. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-310	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-311	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Here it was said why we are dealing with health, because there is a very big problem in other sectors as well. Well, we're dealing with this sector because we're having this debate. It has also been said that the country's economy is growing in proportion to GDP, and this is very good, because resources for healthcare show that wage increases can be made in the sector by 2016. Only health workers don't take bread and milk in proportion to their GDP, but from the money I said in my first speech, from the amounts and the extra resources for going to another institution for a second job and a third job, risking their families falling apart, divorcing their husbands, raising their children alone. It was said that the government would continue to purchase ambulances. I hope that you will think this through and not buy the type B ambulances in which, as has already been said in several forums, patient care is impossible in terms of ventilation. But the medical government was very smart about it: let's make a protocol to get the patient out of the ambulance, and then we can get him into respiratory insurance in a rainy weather. This is also a grievance from professionals. This is on a promising level so that health workers can already hear something concrete that will happen. I trust that this promise will be fulfilled, and it will not remain at the same level of promise as bringing back the active beds of Tapolca Hospital. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-15-312	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Ms Ágnes Molnár. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased, fellow Members, that we agree that there is a huge need to strengthen the basic supply. That is why Parliament is now discussing the basic supply law, which gives a young specialist the opportunity to feel free to choose professional advancement to become a general practitioner and to work in basic care. We also want to give you the opportunity to buy practice in accordance with the Basic Supply Act by providing interest rate subsidies. This is why measures have been taken to ensure a lack of funds for basic supply for the third time in recent years and in the 2016 budget. In your time, a practice worked at the best of 800,000 forints. It was very difficult to operate from that. Now a practice operates between 1 million and 200,000 and 1 million and 300 thousand. This is one of the results of the past period. Secondly, I have also heard opinions on the appointment dates. Opinions on appointment times are divided. In my city, the hospital in Sopron, an institution with 120,000 facilities has a waiting period of one week for ultrasound scans, a week for CT scans, and 20 days for MR scans. I would recommend that everyone check to see if these tests are well organized if they experience longer waiting periods. I would also like to share another very interesting fact about the waiting list programmes. When the government started its first waiting list reduction program, which was supported by 780 million two years ago, since then there has been a 1 billion and a 5 billion - then fifty patients who were on the waiting list have been selected by the OEP to start with the reduction in the waiting list. I would like to say that four out of the 50 patients accepted the call for surgery and accepted the time for surgery. That's typical of all of them. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-314	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. István Ikotity is next.
u2015-06-15-315	Dear House, In the previous speech, I started talking about ambulances. I would like to join Mr Witzmann in his speech, who mentioned the situation in Somogy, and also mentioned the innovations concerning rescues in Siófok. Our question - and it really comes up very often, and we ask it over and over again because we don't understand - is why it had to happen in Siófok, on the southern shore of Lake Balaton, why renovations had to be scheduled for summer. At the moment, the staff of the rescue station in Siófok are located at the professional fire station, in the same airspace as those of their staff who are on watch during the day or on another shift, and they obviously do not have the opportunity to rest, because they are both impossible to perform at the same time in the same room. While one team is waiting for the alarm, the other team is resting; this is completely absurd. Then I would like to mention here that the shortage of professionals is also a huge problem in this area. In the month of April-May, Siófok had no paramedics on the Ambulance several times at night. With this, the southern shore of Lake Balaton remained almost entirely without an adequate level of care. But I'll give you some examples. On the night of May 18, Siófok, Marcali, and Nagyatad exhibited their ambulance without a paramedic. [[20.30]] With this, the northern part of Somogy County was not adequately secured until Kaposvár, but this is not only a unique case of Somogy County, but it is not even Balaton's, and it is not only in summer. The same happens at rural stations, but even in Budapest, all year round. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The National Rescue Service employees take huge payments from the Centre, they are certainly satisfied, but the rural and local ambulances are not the same at all. Thank you for your patience.
u2015-06-15-316	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the group of the MSZP, Mr Imre Horváth. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the premature nationalisation of the Orbán government in health care, excessive centralisation and significant income withdrawal, Újpest was also hit by the wind of hospital closure. I will address the impact of this activity in my post- Agenda comment. As a congressman, I was contacted by voters, I was contacted by medical staff, I was contacted personally by Dr. Hollósi, the medical director of Károlyi Hospital, I should speak in Parliament for the health of Újpest, lobby, do whatever it takes to maintain active hospital care in Újpest. Újpest is an interesting district of Budapest, so I would like to list one or two major events in historical order for health care. The settlement itself was founded in 1840, in 1895 the Károlyi Sándor Hospital was opened, in 1905 the Árpád Children's Hospital, in 1907 it was declared Újpest city, in 1926 a home was inaugurated, and in 1932 a city hospital was opened. In 1950, there was a doctor's office in the city. It is an important date that a plan was made in 2006 and it was also approved to develop the hospital at the Károlyi site, which would have performed active care throughout the region. 2 million forints have been designed by the competent authorities. It should be noted here that this is half the cost of the stadium in the Highlands. In 2007, the capital will shut down obstetrics and gynecology, urological departments and the 60-bed medical department. At the same time, it limits the hospital's revenue to such an extent that it was already known that there would be a continuous loss. On 1 July 2012, the now state-owned hospital maintainer, GYEMSZI shuts down the 100-bed accident surgery, 40-bed neurology, leaving a total of 160 active beds for the hospital at the Károlyi site. Thus, with the remaining revenue opportunities, there is a deficit of HUF 30-40 million. The Maintenance State Health Care Center plans to terminate active care at Károlyi Hospital, and instead it will only be chronic care, i.e. it will be able to care for the sick. This is totally unacceptable for a settlement where four hospitals used to operate. The Honvéd Hospital has been designated to solve the problem, but there are no personal conditions in the Honvéd Hospital, but other improvements would be needed to provide this 160-180 thousand inhabitants with an adequate level of care. I would ask the Secretary of State, in respect of the professional authority of the Secretary of State, to make sure that this new, planned megahospital is built in Újpesten. I know that the Secretary of State is also in a difficult situation, as he is a virtually unarmed soldier of the health government of Fidesz. But with respect for his professional activities, he'll be able to deal with it. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-318	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Teleki of the MSZP Group will be able to give a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-319	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think this debate day is very important because it points out some of the shortcomings of the government that should definitely be addressed in the 2016 budget year. However, what I see is that the budget is not about 10 million people, but it is about nearly half of the country's budget line that we can see in the health lines. I'm saying this because you can see and sense that you've given up a lot of people in the budget within health care. The 500,000 children who are starving, and many times their health situation is such that they should be helped, I do not see where the prevention and prevention resources are. I don't see where the 4.2 million people who live below the minimum living standards are, where the prevention program is, which can help them to live a healthy life, and where the screenings that will reach them are. I don't see how your employees are gonna get access to health care, and I don't see how they can get access to health care, how they're gonna have a source to replace the drugs they use to cure their disease. Therefore, I think that the government must answer these questions. I don't think we have an argument with Mr. Secretary of State. We are having an argument with the government because I think that the government is not handling the health problem that we are facing with sufficient and sufficient weight. Maybe you can see and sense it, but you're the only one who's tied up in these things. But it would be better for you to try to put your own government in order that these funds are needed by the people I'm talking about. And it is also very important to highlight what I pointed out in the last session that they do not talk about the 120,000 ruins that live in the Gypsy settlements and the slumsing parts of the city. How will you take care of them? How will health care take care of you? Because they have neither screening nor prevention, and I do not see the involvement of civilians in prevention, nor the involvement of health care with the weight it should be. I think there is a very big problem in this program that we can see. That is why I am pleased that the Hungarian Socialist Party initiated this debate today, because we would like to show you what you say about health care and what we say. We say that we need to change, and in 2016, we need to give not only 5 million people the chance to have health prospects, but also over 5 million people and the other 5 million. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-320	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varju is next to take a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-321	Thank you very much. This is an unusual moment, because as a representative of the Democratic Coalition, I would like to think for at least a minute or two about what would happen if we took the government's decisions or intentions seriously. The primary reason for this is that the thoughts of one of the experts... - which is expressed in the fact that in health care, wages and working conditions are indeed unsustainable, the system is becoming increasingly insecure in terms of adequate care, and it is important to know that the collapse in this area has never produced more spectacular signs. This does not mean that from tomorrow the hospitals will close, the supply system will work either one way or the other, whether with inadequate qualified professionals or under unworthy conditions. The problem is, that's what millions of people are talking about, and that's what you've been offering them. This situation certainly needs to be changed, and if I continue to think of my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös, then the fact is that putting money into this system is just too little to make money on its own. The situation needs to be changed. You've lost at least five to seven years, maybe more than that. The culpable irresponsibleness, which is the tip of the iceberg, is that without the Ministry of Health, without the responsible people, they try to steer this ship somehow, despite the best of intentions, is not enough. Millions of people today are in a situation where it is extremely hopeless and the few hundred days that he has to line up for a line in health care create a hopeless situation for him. Therefore, if you think deeply about what this could mean, it doesn't seem to you to be demagogues either, if I suggest to everyone who comes to a doctor sooner or later, and who avoids or uses such a VIP supply, then at least this time replace this with going to their own home doctor and trying to get there through that channel and solve the health problem you're dealing with. [[20.40]] If you take the liberty of doing so, you will see the hopelessness in which thousands of people, millions of people have been forced into the sinful irresponsibleness of being unable to change the situation for five to seven years. Unfortunately, we are saying today that yes, in fact, whatever they do, that if they can't do it with money, they will have to change the system here, but you don't have the courage to do it. Here my better-looking fellow Members are having fun pointing to Fidesz and the MSZP. Dear fellow Members, you are responsible for stopping a process that would have been a truly new and serious opportunity for improving the health of the country, you have abused your political power, your potential at that time, and you have been watching helplessly what is happening in this country for a good half a decade now. This responsibility must be accounted for by you, but, frankly, it's very small, it doesn't help people, so I think everyone who can do something about it has a responsibility. That is why I am pleased that this day has taken place, and perhaps it will point out to some people that, yes, the next step must be taken, and it will also point out to all those who suffer every day and stand in line that they will, sooner or later, be called to account for it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-322	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the LMP Group, Mr István Ikotity. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised, I would like to respond to the previous speech. If you were thinking about the transformation that the SDS started, if that had been done, then we wouldn't be sitting here talking about what's going on with health because there wouldn't be any. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Michael Witzmann applauds.]] So we're saying that there's a huge problem now, and then we'd really be at the bottom of the pit. We're saying it's a serious problem right now. [[Noise.]] We have little time, little time, my last speech, I would like to summarize very briefly the fact that we do... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-06-15-324	Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-325	...what the may Other in Politics thinks about this. We think that there is a very serious problem in health care, and we really have a last chance to change that. I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to acknowledge, at least to the level of recognition of the situation, not to dispute that they have taken a number of steps to this end, but, as my fellow Member, Mr Sallai, said, is inadequate, inadequate. I ask you, with all due respect, to take action, to take steps to change that. The most important problem of the May Other in Politics at the moment... - of course, you can talk about structural and a wide variety of transformations, restructuring, but now you need a lifeline for health care. The biggest problem we see in the workers' poverty is that healthcare workers - whether they are doctors, nurses, pharmacists or have any connection to health care, whether they are involved in delivery as entrepreneurs or subcontractors - are in huge trouble. Their wages are very low, it can be said that when they make the choice to stay here in Hungary and stop, they do so because they make an emotional decision, a decision that is very often not rational consideration, but that it is precisely that either for their families to stay home or for the gratitude they receive very often from healthcare professionals, this keeps health care as well as some other sectors alive in Hungary. You can't rely on their perseverance, dedication, determination for long, throw a lifeline. I would ask my fellow members of the Government to consider, in the final vote on the budget, the opposition amendment, look at it, there are a number of possibilities to throw a lifeline and improve the health situation. Thank you so much for your patience.
u2015-06-15-326	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varga, from the MSZP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I also consider today's debate important, and I also initiated it the other day during the trial of a law on health. I'd like to talk to you about the problems that need to be solved today, they won't tolerate a delay, and you can solve them. First of all, some data from the waiting lists in Northern Hungary: we have to wait 599 days for hip replacement surgery in our region, 594 days for abdominal and lumbar hernia surgery and for knee replacement in March 2021. It's intolerable, it can't wait to solve this, it has to be financed, patients can't wait any longer. About health workers: they protested for wage increases, asked for help, Mr. Secretary of State accepted their arguments, but nothing is happening yet, although this is now threatening to collapse. So what I'm saying is that it can't be a question of debate between us that an immediate wage increase is necessary in Hungarian health care, because it is collapsing. Now it is not just a simple social issue, it is also a lesson not only for this day of debate, but also for the past. Third, I'd say upgrades. Indeed, improvements have been made in several places with assistance from the European Union, in some parts of the country, and in others less. In Miskolc, even in the pre-2010 period, several developments were launched, so I could say Starpoint Hospital or even Semmelweis' obstetrics, but otherwise, the Fidesz leadership gave up on the possibility of developing a billion-dollar European Union. That's why they can be pathetic images that spread on Facebook about the conditions in health institutions. This is also the Hungarian reality in health care today, so this must be changed immediately, as well as the issues of basic care, because there are problems with practice in many places. It is very difficult to fill a few practices, and the situation of the general practitioners is becoming increasingly difficult, and there are fewer and fewer, and let me say that with regard to GPs, what I said last time, I would stress again, in a city as big as the city and in a city with geographical characteristics like Miskolc, there were two adult-hospital visits earlier. After 2010, the Fidesz city administration managed to terminate the adult-house doctor's shift in Diósgyőr, even though the Diósgyőrs need such a stand-alone care. The problems need to be solved, we need to be resolved now, you've been governing for over five years, solving these problems, we're going to be partners in this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-328	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Did István Tukacs accidentally press a point of order, asking for the floor in order of business? I guess. [[István Tukacs: In the remaining timeframe.]] , in the remaining timeframe. Mr István Tukacs has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-329	Thank you so much for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, As the initiators of today's debate, we would like to say the following, our common opinion. The debate day did not reach its goal, but the differences were revealed. It did not reach the goal of trying to put together opinions or at least find a common denominator. The opposition side has such a common denominator, we need more money for health care. Our better-looking fellow Members, who will obviously thank us for this debate, feel free to initiate similar ones. Ladies and gentlemen, We have organized this debate for doctors, professionals, health care workers, especially patients, because it is in their best interest to serve patients or health care providers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So thank you all for this. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2015-06-15-330	Thank you very much. Congressman László György Lukács asked for a word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-331	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with a few very short reactions - probably even before the Secretary of State - the speeches made by the Members. It has been mentioned how Jobbik's budget amendments, which are for 2016, were over-extensive. Then I would be happy to hear the opinion of Mr Péter Benő Banai on why, for example, the Government did not support the amendment that we proposed, which had no budgetary impact on the respect of nurses, is unlikely to have been due or would have been so small that it would have been abundantly included in the money of the concession rights granted to Andy Vajna, or it would not have cost so much. We were talking about the head nurse's institution and the reform of the Ministry structure, it wouldn't have cost anything. The other is the leaking cash register, as I call it; most of the CT and MRI devices are still - and we have asked for figures - in the hands of private companies that would be much better off if they were with the state and owned by the state-owned institution itself, and they would not be run by private companies who, by the way, refer to themselves as the largest bank in health care, and they are currently the beneficiaries of this. [[20.50]] The other thing I thought was worth discussing was if there was a little more time, the question of the large hospital in Budapest. Jobbik's firm position on this is that it is not certain that a large hospital, but most likely that in Budapest, three priority hospitals would be needed, and these hospitals should not be blocked in one place. The last is a response to Congressman Witzmann. He said he didn't know much about health care. Still, he seemed to be quite good at health care, but he managed to run this hospital in Siófok together with Épkar Zrt. So you don't have to be so lying about not being able to touch it. He understands the health problems very well. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has made suggestions for improving. Every time there is a health bill or health proposal in Parliament, we use it with amendments compared to the options, and we always say our opinion, precisely so that not only patients but also those working there are better in health care. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-15-332	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor from the government. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-333	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond very briefly to some of the points raised, given that Mr László Lukács raised two issues on which I think that next year's budget proposal in the field of health can provide a solution. One is to cover the wage increase of nurses, and I would add that the budget for next year includes additional resources for young specialists as well as for doctors. The second is the construction of the large hospital in Budapest, where a billion-dollar starting amount is included in the draft budget for next year. If the Member and Jobbik consider these important, I trust that they will support this part of the 2016 budget. As far as responsible farming is concerned, on which many have drawn attention, I hope that the economic and public finance processes that have characterised the past period will continue in the coming years. Then we can talk about how much additional resources can be allocated to health in the budgets of the years 2017 and beyond. I would like to emphasise that responsible farming must be maintained. Congressman Haughty mentioned a 50 percent wage increase. I would also like to remind you, based on statistics, that in that year there was a 8.9 percent deficit in public finances, so that expenditure has been incurred which is burdened with [[Zoltán Grimlock: We inherited it from Fidesz, yes!]] We paid it together. Finally, one more thought. Health care, I think, has had extra expenditure in the budgets every year in recent years, and health workers also see that there has been progress in other areas that has also solved their problems. I am thinking of family benefits; health care workers who have children also notice that progress has been made in this area as well as in the area of foreign exchange creditors working in health care. So in several areas, in the field of health and in other areas, I hope that we will be able to make progress in 2016 and in the years to come, in the spirit of responsible farming. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-334	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who has a time frame to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] He doesn't want to. We have reached the end of the speeches. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Gábor Zombor, Secretary of Human Resources. A 20-minute time frame is available for closing hours. Here you go.
u2015-06-15-335	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much for the debate, for the cooperation, in which a lot of professional issues have also been addressed. Maybe a secretary of state or a leader hasn't had a part in being pitied rather than loved. [[Defiance.]] This could mean the end of my political career. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP. István Tukacs: Gábor, think about it! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thank you very much for your kindness. I think it was worth taking the time to do what was said in the debate, even if there are political voices in such a conversation. It could have been analysed, but I did not want to take time away from my fellow Members, how exactly this started, whether it was hospital issues or the definition of the source. You can go back to 90 here. One thing is certain, and I think we should take note of this: this is the situation in this form, as we have heard, and, as both pro-government and opposition representatives have said, it cannot work for too long. So there's definitely something to be done about it. Our Secretary of State has made several alternatives to this. There are some that require extra funding, and they actually respond to the restructuring of the hospital system and to the deep financial transformation. They answer the waiting list question. But this can be started if the public finances can provide adequate resources for this. In the meantime, we can't begin with this because it would do more damage than it would do. The solution that is perhaps the easiest to adapt the supply system to current resources is also very difficult to imagine. Professionally, it would not be possible to undertake in any way, as this would mean that virtually a large part of the current operating capacity would have to be removed, which would involve hospital closures and dismissals. The exact problem that is included in the OECD report is that for those who need access to supply and who are least able to achieve them in the established system, this solution cannot be a forward-looking solution. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] what can be done in this current budgetary structure, and in addition to writing down every proposal and every problem, I have formulated to myself, believe me, that these will not be resolved from one moment to the next. For almost 25 years now, unfortunately, I have had the opportunity to turn around in all areas of health care, and for 25 years I have seen similar problems, ten years and now there are similar problems. They're not gonna work out overnight. It is a huge challenge to halt or slow down migration, in which I think - and I do not want to smooch to the representatives of the Ministry of National Economy - we are receiving support. The fact that the residency support system could start in its form and have been extended, now causing wage tension from the other side - that is, its criticism - can provide the young doctors with a net HUF 100,000 plus for 10 years is a big thing. I don't know, maybe two weeks ago, there was a delegation from the Czech Senate Health Commission, who have huge problems, and they don't have a solution to keep their doctors, for example, in the West of Czech Republic. They asked us, who, on the basis of the criticisms, do nothing and have no idea what can be done. The same question was asked by the Montenegrin, otherwise the Romanian negotiator asked the same question, and he still visited us. This seems to be a good solution, which carries the possibility of extending it in an emerging system, as the resources are available, to go further with doctors. [[21.00]] As far as nurses are concerned, the need to manage wages cannot be avoided. I think it's a matter of time before the government has to start negotiations that I hope I can start, and I will have a mandate to conclude a long-term wage agreement on a scheduled scale, but otherwise the current tensions will persist, and it will be difficult for the system to be managed or even influenced, and in that case even a problem can be expected. Right now, I'd like to be careful about all the allegations that it's collapsing and it's not working. We also have information that certain business circles are preparing for a complete blackout of the public system mainly in the media, which means a shift towards private health services, so I will only tell my better fellow Members that they should be careful of how much they are collapsing. [[Dr. László Varga: So, they're in the pantry now?]] It won't collapse. It's a huge system, there's a lot of people working in it, very good professionals working in it, huge wealth piled up in the health system. I would ask everyone - if this could be such a request - that, of course, by accepting criticisms, but because, as Congressman Tukacs said, it is also for the benefit of patients, health workers and Hungarian health itself, because short-term political benefits may not pay in the long term on this issue. The system will work anyway, and patients will have to be cured, and there will be nothing else to do but work in Hungarian health care, and we will be responsible for maintaining this system. I'd like to make a few amendments on the waiting list. Here, too, the numbers should be used carefully, since the appointment and the waiting list are not the same. Of course, the aim is to keep them as short as possible, and they will not disappear. It will be very good to reduce major surgery to six months - which is also good in Western Europe - and small surgery to two or three months, by releasing one-day surgery from the volume limit. By the way, ophthalmic surgery, which accounts for most of the waiting list, can practically disappear from the system and, in fact, it will be the major orthopaedic surgery that really needs to be moved on. How many doctors have left the country and how many have remained, this quadruple increase is not true, so it has been said several times here that growth is quadrupled from one year to the next. I just want to point out that this is not the case, so I've been talking about 1800-2000 for five to six years now, so I'm pretty sure that's not the case, there's no 10,000 people involved. So it could be clarified there, too. Once again, thank you very much, and as it was said at the very beginning whether we should agree on these issues, I think it is worth discussing, if we agree on those basic issues, that there should be a social security system in Hungary and that there should be better conditions. I am still ready for this, and thank you very much for the honourable debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-15-336	Welcome, fellow Members. That concludes the political debate, with the reply of the Secretary of State, and that concludes the discussion of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Mr Zoltán Lukács spoke after the agenda with a title on the issue of Hungarian health. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dr. Gábor Zombor: Oh, my God! Again?]]
u2015-06-15-337	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Health Debate Day has just come to an end, in which we talked about a lot of things, and there has been talk about developments that are taking place all over the country. However, the way in which improvements are implemented and the problems surrounding developments are, on the one hand, a sign of the current state of health and an indication of the problems that, along the lines of health development, are either political or other problems. Ladies and Gentlemen, In Tatabánya, St. Borbála Hospital, a development was launched to build a new hospital gazebo. The construction of this hospital pavilion was decided by the Bajna government. This development was decided before the change of government. After that, of course, the campaign campaigners there campaigned by building a hospital pavilion, it was not difficult to campaign, because it was decided, it was a government decision. But then, compared to this, for years after the change of government, nothing happened on this issue, the case was as it was. Then they began to build this hospital pavilion with great difficulty, and then it was very difficult to build it, and in the first place it was the laying of foundation stones, which was extremely active. There was an enormous amount of champagne in the hospital yard, and there was a wind band. What else is needed in a hospital yard than a wind band, the patients there, the patients in other pavilions who were about to heal there, were very happy to listen to the wind band for hours. In comparison, of course, he somehow recovered from the hospital pavilion, and now we see that the hospital pavilion has been built. Eight months ago, the hospital pavilion was technically handed over, and then eight months ago, this hospital pavilion was empty, work couldn't start, healing couldn't begin. We've asked him several times what the reason is. It seems that the reason that there are political problems behind the matter and that there are mostly public procurement problems is that the public procurement has been withdrawn, which is why - that is what they say, and I can imagine - that these orders could not have been given to those who wanted to be addressed by public procurement. Then they shot back the entire public procurement, re-written the entire public procurement, and then by the time this whole thing was done, the source was gone. Today, eight months after the technical handover, there's a built-up hospital pavilion, and there's no work going on. The CT scanner stood in a truck in the hospital yard for months, and then progress was made, because the CT scanner was moved to a tent in the hospital yard, and then there was a CT scanner for months. Now it has reached St. Barbara's Hospital in Tatabánya that the CT scanner has been taken into the building. This took many months, but where better to put a CT device than in a tent in the yard, because it's a cheap equipment, it's practically very bad. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, the director of St. Borbála Hospital said that despite receiving 750 million forints, only pre-March debts can be repaid. He himself said that this 60 billion forints is not enough for anything in health care. He said that it would not be 60, but 600 billion forints, that any progress would be made, that the same debt would recreate itself, that there would be no progress. The question follows, however, that, even if it is open, they can finally somehow arrange for it to be ordered from the person from whom it should be ordered, and it will be taken care of, we still do not know how the new hospital gazebo will be financed. [[21.10]] Then I don't talk about what the local doctors and staff say, that the only problem is how we're gonna have equipment in this new hospital pavilion, but who's gonna work in it and who's gonna cure it, they're not really gonna be able to answer that, because right now they're in a huge shortage of people in both the field of doctors and nurses. So once again, if there were any improvements that would have been decided before the change of government, that would be a big problem. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That there's a built-up hospital for months because of different political slugs, and there's no cure in it. We can't afford that luxury. Thank you very much. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-15-338	To speak after the next agenda, István Tukacs, Member of the Council, came forward with the title: "The Hungarian Healthcare situation." You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-339	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to some of the points made on the debate day, but especially to the closing point. I would like to start by saying that I am firmly convinced - and I repeat again what I said at the beginning of the day - that health is one of the three or four most important national issues in which medium- and long-term agreements should be made between political forces and professional groups in order to be predictable. If that is the case, then we should also agree on the basic issue mentioned by the Secretary of State in his closing statement, in which opposition groups were otherwise of the same opinion: this is more money. This is very important because professional concepts cannot be produced without it. I would like to draw attention to the closing words of the Secretary of State, and he said very serious sentences. He said, first of all, from the official figures of today's government, that changing the structure of health care today cannot be done with that kind of money; if it were to be managed with that kind of money, it would inevitably lead to deterioration, layoffs, unemployment. I share this view, by the way, because we know that it would work that way. I therefore think that it was very visual when the two government ministers of state sat here during the debate: the head of the State Secretary for Health, representing the profession in this way, and, of course, the Secretary of State for the National Economy, who had an obligation to say no - because he said so. The Secretary of State spoke about responsible management, responsible budgetary policy. I'll tell you a few things now, if you don't mind. So, is it responsible to let go of the concession fee for casinos with a simple lobby proposal like that? Is that okay? That's the responsibility? Is it responsible to maintain a government TV that two percent people watch for 80 billion? It's not a responsibility. Is it responsible to build stadiums in a very special Hungarian version of football for 100 billion? Well, that's not a responsibility. Mr Secretary of State, so I say that when you set the example that you do, you have to be careful here, and then you have to think responsibly, and you have to think about all the areas; and I think that budgetary policy works by weighing, and that health care needs money. Not only because... I do not believe in these conspiracy theories, that when we talk about collapse, it is in the interests of certain economic lobby groups - but let us have a debate in this! - but I think if it goes on like this, there will be disastrous consequences. Therefore, I would like to represent by far the opinion that there is no change of concept without much more money, no change of professional concept in health care. However, if we are to try to put into reality the vision that we need a very sick health care with otherwise satisfied doctors and professionals, then we should first have a political decision on these sources, and then we could discuss to all actors how this should look professionally, what should be in it, and what should not. I look at the congresswoman again, I'm sure she can say something in the case of the patronage service that she can make this Hungarian hungaricum even more qualitative with more money. [[Dr. Bene Ildikó: I'm sure.]] Or unicum, I'm sorry, because it's not yet for Hungariku. Therefore, if there are professional concepts, first the question is whether there is a source for this and then there is a way to talk about how to solve it professionally. In this regard, I would like to make one more comment, which is very important, and this has also been said in this debate. It is possible to discuss who was worse and who was better in this matter; in this respect, I am surprised at the faction sitting next to us on the left, who are surprised that a opposition party is arguing with a party of government and on the other hand, and they are even giving a voice. What the hell are we supposed to do? To conflict concepts, ideas, discuss, and try to come to terms with this. But we could be a little less small-minded in a few things. So the debate on how the improvements were carried out will be decided by the most important document in health that we have at present:, for Healthy Hungary 2014-2020, in the last cycle there has been unprecedented developments in health care, in the last European Union cycle, from 2007 - my fellow Member, József Szabó, said it very precisely - well, someone had to prepare it. Therefore, if we become more comfortable with each other, we will find it easier to deal with professional matters. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-340	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr László Szakács asked for a speech on the issue of health in Hungary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-341	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thus, after the political debate, there was a professional and political debate, and I believe that neither the upshot nor the attitude of our comments has, by the way, justified that such a debate should be made, where it can be repeated in the past eight years, that we have done this again, that they have done it, and who has done it better, who has done it wrong. I believe that here we have tried to present our own opinion with a corrective intention, but unfortunately this was a fluctuating debate, precisely because of these very, very strong and political contributions. What I would like to highlight from this is not this - I would like to put these in brackets; let us do this as if it had not happened! - what I would like to point out, Mr. Secretary of State Sombor said at a conference on the 4th, and I told him, only then, that Minister of State Banai was not here. This is how the press reports it:. The Secretary of State mentioned recently established regional health committees that will carry out much closer economic control than before inpatient institutions. This rigour can also be a good basis for effective health fighting for additional resources for decision-makers, as this is necessary to strengthen confidence in the sector, to prove its credibility..Secretary of State, I would like to ask you to know that this is obviously not your job, but you are here, I cannot say to anyone else, I ask you to trust in health care, do not act like your boss, Minister Varga, who said in one of the commercial televisions on your talk show that, by the way, it is probably not enough because of the unreasonable and wasteful directors of hospitals, that every person in the profession, everyone who can be referred to in this matter, says that this source is not enough. The contributions paid cover 60.4 percent of the E-case in total, and the rest must be added either way from the budget, but it doesn't matter how much we add from the budget, and it doesn't matter how we manage rationally, Mr Secretary of State, what we pay. Today, healthcare is already two-speed in Hungary. The state adds 4.4 per cent of GDP and we know this on the basis of empirical data, and Minister Varga has not denied that we add 2.9 per cent of GDP in our pockets - those who can. There's a rich health care facility where they go in, they get the kind of care they're looking for, we hope they get the bill, and then they follow them, and the rest, and the rest. And there is another healthcare that is financed by the state, the poor health where they go in, there are many in the line, they meet eviscerated, impatient, but of course understanding people, who also watch weekends, watch at night, try to provide them for 101-106-120 thousand forints, as my fellow Member said. [[21.20]] Secretary of State, let's count this down to 320 euros. Why wouldn't they laugh at that in Western Europe? Three hundred and twenty euros! Why not make five times that, ten times that in Western Europe? How can we get them to stay here with two billion forints? Secretary of State, we don't want two-speed health care. We want anyone who pays for social security to get the service for it. Here's one more thing I haven't told you before. I have a lot of friends who pay a lot of social security, thanks to God, they can. Their only huge problem with your system is that there is no connection between the contribution paid and the service received for it anymore. You collect your contributions as a kind of necessary evil, and they pay you as a kind of necessary evil, but they get nothing for it. They don't go to public health, they can afford to go somewhere else. Do not let me, Mr Secretary of State - and I think that as Secretary of State for Public Finance and Budget, I can safely draw your attention to this - so that the link between the taxes and contributions paid and the services received for it will be removed, because then the role of the State as an organizer will cease. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-342	On the next agenda, Ms Anita Heringes, on behalf of the MSZP, asked for a speech on the issue of Hungarian health. You have the floor.
u2015-06-15-343	Thank you very much for the floor. As I said in my speech during the Health Debate Day, it is actually the money that is lacking in health care. Both the Hungarian Medical Chamber and the Resident Association say that infrastructure development is not enough to be a well-functioning health care system here. Employees should be valued if they are a doctor, a nurse, or any member of the medical staff. People who always work for humans work night and day for this, and today they really do expose themselves to a level of exploitation, professionally, mentally and physically, that despite their enthusiasm and strength, they are slowly reaching the limit of their physical strength, and they can no longer give what they want out of spirit. It is not an emotional question, but a professional question about the fate of the hospital at the basement - said the Director General of St. Luke's Hospital in Dombóvár. As a county of Tolna and as part of my constituency, I definitely need to talk about Pincehely, as the fate of the hospital at the basement is also an emotional issue, especially for the cellars and the 17 settlements around Pincehely. 35,000 people have been involved in the operation of this hospital. 'Cause you guys are shutting down active beds right now. It was eliminated so that the inhabitants of those 17 settlements could now travel for more than an hour to get to the hospital in hillovar. It's an emotional issue for people living here. They protested for this hospital and protested for this institution, they did everything they could to keep this institution going. They acquired tools from their Dutch town of brothers and sisters, and they acquired closets, beds and mattresses, which, now that the active beds have ceased to exist, were spread out. Everything's gone somewhere else. It's an emotional question for these people because they know that their families were born there, they were rescued there, they were treated there when there was sudden trouble. And it is also an emotional question because my fellow Member Ferenc Hirt always tells me that he was born here in this hospital, so he is trying to do everything he can for this hospital. There was also a forum in the last month - where Ferenc Hirt was involved, and also the Director-General, who will be working in the hospital, i.e. now only in an active bedless healthcare facility - that this hospital should be maintained, as they are both emotionally attached to it. Only Ferenc Hirt said that it would take two billion forints to maintain this. There's a renovation coming up at the basement hospital, and we owe it to you. What looks like the hospital in Mombovar receives 1.8 billion forints is 170 million for the hospital in basement. Out of 170 million, the active beds will cease to exist, and only and exclusively, as the basement people say, will function as a shelter. There will be no obstetrics here. There will be no one-day surgery. What your fellow Member fought for is not going to happen. The hospital will no longer function as a hospital. The one thing he said was that he didn't have two billion forints in the budget, and that the residents there couldn't get two billion for an individual representative for this hospital. What I can say is that if there is 5.5 billion forints for the stadiums in Budapest this year, then 2 billion forints for such a white spot, which is Cellar and its surroundings, must be, because people here worked out of enthusiasm, and to this day there would still be nurses and doctors who would come back to work. Because most of the nurses working in the basement hospital now work in Budapest because they can't do it anywhere else. She lives in a nursing home, even though she would like to go home to her family every day and put food on the table and live together and maintain the health of the people there and improve it. That's why I'm asking you to think carefully about what's more important, building stadiums for Budapest or saving the basement hospital. We can tell you that we think this is more important. And the very bad feeling we have is that the idea of the hospital in Oradea, which you just threw in, is again a rubber bone, so that people don't talk about the point. Instead of talking about how bad health care is, they should start a debate between people. You know, I can tell you not to start a debate, but to heal people, and on white spots like Cellar Place and its surroundings - 17 settlements, 35 thousand people - there is an emotional question, even for your representative. They failed their own individual representative by not saving this hospital at the basement, even though, as I said, he was born there. Save the hospital! Thank you.
u2015-06-15-344	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicated that he wished to reply. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-15-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes spoke of the appreciation of the sector. I think that we all need to note that in recent years the government has been in a situation where it has sought to increase its appreciation, to increase its gross wages, when many of Europe's countries have chosen the exact opposite path. This is factually true, you know exactly what gross wage cuts have been made in IMF partner countries. So when we talk about whether the government has sought to appreciate the health care workers, we can factually say that in 2012, too, the wage increase was made in 13, the basic benefits also increased, and there is also a number of additional resources available in the much mentioned budget for next year. Allow me to react very briefly to what Mr Cook has raised as regards the management of the institutions. I think that it is in the common interest of all of us to have responsible management in all public-money organisations. So when we talk about responsibility throughout public finances, this should go hand in hand with institutional responsibility. Indeed, we also see differences in health care institutions that allow two institutions to produce very different debts with the same supply chain, the same class structure and the same number. They should naturally review the entire funding, but institutional responsibility must also be strengthened. This was the aim of the effort that was also discussed on the debate day. And as for the distinction between rich and poor care, I don't see this, I see the opposite. The government is working to preserve the public health care system. And when we talk about rich and poor health and private health care and public health care, my statement is that the government has strengthened the public-funded public care system by taking over the municipal institutions and transforming them into fiscal bodies. I think that this was an important message, that state-owned institutions cannot operate in the form of an economic company. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-15-346	To speak after the next agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke with a title 5 on the issue of Hungarian health. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-15-347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am sorry that Minister of State has left, because on 26 January 2015 the following article was published:.. More flask babies can be born in Hungary. The Secretary of State said that they would negotiate with the institutions that would intervene in such a way as to see how the funding should change exactly. [[21.30]] Gábor Zombor added that in one year about 1,700 children are born in Hungary today. If this programme can be developed, more successful implantations are expected. Currently, five interventions are financed by the health insurance company, and the government would double the current amount of HUF 2 billion. It was said in January, the increase in the framework awaits a government decision, but according to the Secretary of State, the government's intention is strong on this issue. As you said, you don't believe there's a serious obstacle to government decision-making. I brought up this problem because we had a health debate day. One of the biggest problems in Hungary today is the birth rate and population in addition to health care. Today, according to some statistical data, 200,000 known pairs - according to statistical data, there are many more - who are struggling with fertility problems in Hungary. I think that it is more important than anything that these desired children - because we are talking about children who have longed for them - can be born. I have already asked Mr Secretary of State in committee that if the government has a very strong will to double its funding, then what does that mean? It's been almost six months since January. What is the strong will in this? What's to stop the government from doubling that amount? I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that I have tabled an amendment to the budget to double this amount, because then it may not be that 1200 children are born every year, but that they could have a double and very, very much to be born in Hungary. I found money in the budget in 2016. We will build a small railway next to the Pancho Arena for 600 million forints. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Not too little, big!]] I think it's very important, I just don't think it's necessary. 600 million HUF is available for communication to promote measures affecting families. Well, what's better than the government spending on fertility programs? I think we could do that, and we've already found 1.2 billion forints. I don't want to bring up the stadium on purpose - because there's been a lot of talk about it - I've already been able to raise a lot of money from two items. I'll give you some bad news, Mr. Secretary. He was voted off at the committee meeting. All the amendments we make will be rejected without consideration. Many times, even without debate, they do not want to listen to the presentation, and it is only there that it can be said at committee meetings. I think that if the government does not allow on such an important subject as population policy, and I say that we are talking about children who want to be here - 27 years of age in August, the child born by the first flask baby program in Hungary, 27 years of age! If something was a success in Hungary, one of them is the flask baby program, that children could have been born, who would never have been able to be born if this program hadn't been created. I am shocked to find that when Mr Secretary of State said that it was a strong government will, a half-year has passed, the amendment has been voted down, and I think it will be many more years before this strong government will be achieved, even though I say we are talking about the children we want. About the children your parents want to have. I ask Mr Secretary of State that it is true that Mr Sombor has indeed left, so you should represent this, tell your government that this is a very, very small item, it could be resolved, and do not make excuses, because at the committee meeting there was someone who said that ethical questions were raised here. After 27 years, I think you've proven yourself worthy of spending on this program. I ask your support in this, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-348	I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Benő Banai.
u2015-06-15-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In order to address it, it should be noted very briefly that couples who cannot have children naturally are financed by a high number of health institutions in European comparison. The other item, which I would like to highlight, is that I fully agree with the Member's view that the fundamental aim is to give birth to the desired children, and that, in addition to the fact that when intervention is needed, there is the financing of the OEP, which is why the government introduced the system of family benefits. If we are talking about next year's budget, I would like to mention that the amount of tax relief for the second child [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: For that to happen, the first must be born!]] It will grow. Madam Congresswoman, I agree that the first must also be born, which is why I have mentioned that there is currently OEP funding. In cases where the desired child cannot be brought together naturally, but also the tax relief scheme is a point [[Continuous noise and interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] is aimed at achieving the goals you wish for. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-350	Mr Sándor Szabó spoke after the next agenda with the title "Szeged has become a tourist destination." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-351	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although the issue of health care and its situation would require more time, I think we could talk about it even until morning, I don't know if Mr. Secretary of State was here by accident or intentionally, but we are happy about it. We must also say that whatever you say, Mr Secretary of State, it is also clear that I have said to you in my previous comment that there is no priority in the government either for health or for education or for the social sector. However, priority is given to the NB I, which I read is that the NBI I 2014-15 season ended as it was, undetected; this is what is important for the government, not the health, education or the social sector. [[Péter Benő Banai is leaving the Chamber. Interviews from the lines of the MSZP turning to Péter Benő Banai: Leave us alone? Good night, Mr. Secretary. Péter Benő Banai is leaving the Chamber.]] And now I would like to get to the issue of my agenda, Szeged and tourism. Well, tourism is today's most dynamically developing industry in both international and domestic terms. However, this does not mean that the conditions, conditions, legal environment of the industry, its impact on the economy, society, the natural and built environment should not be re-examined, the necessary changes being made, if necessary, the amendments being made. The tourism industry boosts the economy, improves the quality of life of people living in that country, affects all other sectors of the economy, including the competitiveness of one country. Europe is the world's largest, most promising host area, of which Hungary is part and enjoys the benefits of this location. Szeged's values, which affect tourism, cultural and heritage tourism, event tourism, thermal and medicinal tourism, conference tourism, active and ecotourism, and shopping tourism. This is how tourism in Szeged is made up. The most important value of the reborn city is the XIX-XX. It was created with buildings of eclectic Art Nouveau cityscape, such as the Church of the Vedalm or the Synagogue, resulting from the mixing of styles that determine the turn of the century. For this harmonious cityscape, it is in fact the framework of its event network, which has been established over the past few years and partly over decades, as well as its events. They represent repeated cultural and tourist values, without the need for completeness, such as the Spring Festival of Szeged, the events of Szeged's Day, the Rózsa Festival of Szőreg, the International People's Dance Festival of Szeged, and could still be classified. Szeged has two qualified medicinal waters and five different bathing facilities. One of the biggest tourist projects was the establishment of the New Szeged spa and wellness centre, and the other was the renovation of Anna Bath. The knowledge gathered in other scientific institutes of the University of Szeged and the city is a secure background for international conferences, resulting in regular conferences on high-quality and most varied topics. Tisza is a significant influence on the life of Szeged, and the surrounding nature conservation areas and the adventure parks that continue to take place are an excellent attraction for tourists interested in active and ecotourism. Szeged is a border settlement, so a lot of people from Serbia have come to buy for us from Romania, although due to recent legislative changes this has had a negative impact. What characterizes reception skills? The destination is fully capable of meeting the needs of visitors, as it has an advanced infrastructure, including transport, utility and communication networks. What characterizes reception skills? As a university city, Szeged has already become accustomed to the fact that about 40,000 students in higher education are involved in the everyday life of the city, so they also act with sufficient tolerance, kindness and helpfulness in relation to tourists, which basically makes the stay of visitors pleasant and can return to their normal lives richly with positive experiences. [[21.40]] Local entrepreneurs also pay serious attention to ensuring the high quality of their services, while preserving traditions, to the innovation of their activities and to achieving and increasing the satisfaction of guests. The local government also prioritises tourism, we operate a separate website, and we provide an independent funding framework to carry out city marketing and tourism tasks. Several projects have been implemented over the past period by monitoring the sources of applications. Without completeness: downtown reconstruction, water tower rehabilitation in Szent István tér, airport development, bicycle road development, visitor-friendly development of Vadaspark, and could still be classified. As a result, the number of foreign and domestic guests as well as the number of nights in foreign and domestic stays is constantly increasing. In view of the above, it is no wonder that on the top 100 Trivago list Szeged is among the world's best destinations in the world, in Hungary there is another city on the list of 100 in 59th place and on CNN's website an article entitled Saunas, bathing and chess: Hungary's best spas, in which two are offered from Szeged to one of the destinations. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-15-352	At the next agenda, Mr László Teleki came forward with a title on the situation of civil society organisations. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-353	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that at the previous item on the agenda, we have discussed the fact that the government has failed the health sector, and we can safely say that not only has it failed the sector and not only health, but also education, the creation of jobs is being postponed by this government. We can safely say, most importantly, the civil sector has also been abandoned by the current government. I say that he failed because he is trying to support one civil society organisation among the Roma organisations, that is Lungo Drom, whose leader was not here today, because I think that if he is sitting in Parliament as a Prime Minister's representative or as President of Lungo Drom or any other title, he would be obliged to speak about the health situation of the Roma in Hungary. But it doesn't say, despite the fact that it is Lungo Drom, who is the largest source of funding, and it is safe to say that the other civil society organisations in Hungary do not matter to the government. As a result, I think that the most money from the National Cooperation Fund - which is HUF 4.6 billion and which is registered today - is not for the organisations who work. I'm saying this because it's gonna get me back to health care. We missed in health care that civilians weren't involved, at least I told you. I think it is very important to involve civilians in prevention. This doesn't happen, and we don't understand why. What we see is the high level of money-sharing in civil society organisations, but they share these resources for political reasons rather than sharing them in the way they should be: everyone could receive funds through their work. Today, I think that in most cases this phenomenon is present within the Hungarian government, and we can see that it is mainly present in Roma organisations. When I say that it is not present, think about not supporting programmes such as Roma health guards. By the way, it is true that this was initiated by the previous government, but we started it because Roma health guards at some level in settlements where there is very little opportunity to be present with other institutions should try to provide support, help to get to a doctor or even screening, or to receive other preventive programmes that they consider important, I think not only the Roma community but also the non-Roma community, because it is very important from a public health point of view to how this issue is going. Therefore, the question arises as to why there is no source for these Roma health guards, why they wanted to put this on the line, or we can safely say that they will tear it down against Lungo Drom. So I think that the government should also answer whether it wants to deal with this issue. But the network that we launched was equally important, the network of social housing, which represents the network of Roma social houses. Here it is known that the role of community houses was present in all settlements. Here it was important that health programs, educational programmes or training for training, re-training, are given to visitors, because I do not mean to say that only Roma, because this is a Roma and not Roma population, and this community house network, we can safely say that it is no longer alive, not even on paper, because we do not see that these community houses are financed. I ask again why only Lungo Drom receives the resources that other civilians should receive, and we are talking about organisations that are fully independent of the party. They may have so much to do with the party as to say hello to the left, and there is no other commitment to us, which is why they are being retorted. But I would go further, there was a Roma anti-discrimination network, which, not only did it not receive it, but in 2011 it was also abolished. This network was important in my sense of values - but I think if you ask Roma civilians, too - because it could not only help health care but also education, especially when it was not only the NGOs that were supported by this network and this source of government that got to them, but we could also finance and finance various lawyers from the sources that the civil society network had received. And not today, it has been abolished with a stroke of pen that we miss very much, and I will ask again why Lungo Drom receives exclusively those resources and why this anti-discrimination network, which we believe has served a very important purpose in Hungarian society, does not get it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-15-354	Mr Imre Horváth applied for the next speech on the situation in Hungary regarding Újpest. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of the debate day, I said and said that I would continue with nationalisation issues. Nationalisation was the most spectacular intervention of the Orbán government among healthcare providers. Originally, this was not included in the professional program of the State Secretary, Miklós Szócska, who took office in 2010, but nevertheless, this was carried out by the government. In a short time, a huge institutional system, more than 110 hospitals, was swept under a single state maintainer. Within a few months, it turned out that this mass of institutions could not be organised or run rationally by the state. Although data were collected, among other things, they managed to get hospital horses and doormats to count, little useful information about the operation of the system, or even if they did, they were not made known to the outside world. For example, over the years, we do not know how many people work in health care, it also disrupts the distribution of wage increases, and there is no data on the quality of healing, although without these parameters it is difficult to enforce government intentions that improve the system. The failure also forced the government to partially back down, the Gigas Hospital Administration Office was reorganized this spring, the pharmaceutical authority regained its independence, and the county authorities were established to try to run the institutions from county level as some sort of managing and economic control body. However, the four-year attempt to nationalise had also cost, and healthcare lost the 100 billion resources previously put into the operation of their own institutions by the ownership authorities each year. Formerly, independent hospital managers were turned into vulnerable state officials, while nationalisation, which was invented in the process, was all-powerful, and hindered the effective restructuring and rationalisation of the institutional system. The availability of EU development funds, which could be used as almost a single resource for structural change, has been blocked by inertia for a long time. From the EU's 220-230 billion tender framework, even public tenders could not be issued until 2014 to 90-100 billion. [[21.50]] A few thoughts about five years' losses. According to the analysis of the experts of the Corvinus University of Budapest, more than half of the development of HUF 336 billion in health care has already been completed by hospitals, a fifth by clinics, an eighth by primary care, a few percent by ambulances, blood supply and health development. The Orbán government's deep uncertainty about health had its signs very early, and the new Fundamental Law no longer mentions social security. In the 2012 Budget Act, Antal Rogán proposed that the social security contribution be converted into a social contribution, i.e. a tax, so that the daily policy is free to enter the health insurance fund, where taxes are, where it can redistribute amounts by reason of the contributions laws. This was also the case that, although in 2010 Fidesz's health policy programme added an additional 250 billion to the implementation of the system converter's plans, the Fidesz government actually withdrew 400 billion from the sector over the first four years. So much has not been taken away from health care by the so-called Gyurcsány government. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-356	In response to the next agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann spoke with the title "Elolobolygonk.hu - Campaign against climate change." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-15-357	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In December of this year, a very important event affecting the future of mankind, the climate conference, will be held in Paris. We have high hopes for this event, although there is some concern in addition to hope. Many of us expect the world's leaders to finally see that the nature-damaging process that we are currently witnessing and even suffering can no longer go on. Although positive steps have been taken in recent years, which give us reason to be confident, we cannot fully rest. If major powers such as the United States of America, China, India and the European Union, such as those responsible for more than 50 percent of CO2 emissions, do not force themselves to self-limit or change attitudes, then experts believe that an irreversible process can begin, which will create a life-threatening situation for ourselves and our offspring. The essence of the climate summit can therefore be summarised in whether or not we can change global warming. If there is no substantial change soon, the rate of warming may increase by up to 4-5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. The causes of this are, on the one hand, changes in greenhouse gases and, on the other, changes in land use. It is here that the unscrupulous eradication of rainforests, the expansion of cities without barriers and the escalation of agriculture should be mentioned. The root of the problem can be dated to the beginning of the industrial revolution. Since then, the Earth's atmosphere has warmed by almost 1 degrees Celsius. The effects of this are seen in the increasing number of floods, in the increasing number of summer canicles and in the north of the animal and plant species native to the southern regions. According to the experts of the topic, the increase in warming must be kept lower than 2 degrees Celsius, otherwise the process may become unstoppable. The maintenance of the current worrying state cannot be explained by reference to economic interests. It must be borne in mind that the destruction of natural disasters caused by warming can already be measured by billions of dollars a year worldwide. It is also important to draw attention to the fact that 80 percent of the consequences of climate change appear in water-related problems - droughts or floods. Hungary is particularly vulnerable to extreme water transport due to our geographical location. In the last 14 years, the Danube and Tisza have passed the historical record level three times. The weight of the problem is well felt by the fact that, before the Second World War, the Danube had never crossed the eight-meter water level at Budapest, whereas in the last ten years this has occurred four times, and it has been close to reaching the nine-meter water level for two years. I would like to say here that the negative effects of climate change are also sensitive to the Balaton region, as, in addition to the environmental damage, there are also touristic and thus economic aspects of climate change in Lake Balaton. If the weather is extremely dry, as has been the case in the past ten years, then the water level of Lake Balaton may decrease so dramatically that the alarming effect also on tourism. Another extreme of extreme weather is the increasing number of precipitations. Unfortunately, the Balatonians have been involved in this recently. We just need to think about last year's very rainy year. In September 2014, in Siófok, about 100 mm of precipitation fell in four hours and a total of three months of precipitation reached the entire region in one week. Ladies and gentlemen, Successful action against climate change can only be achieved through broad cooperation and common will between countries. Only by force and determination can we succeed. Because of the geographical characteristics of the Carpathian Basin, the global average in Hungary is one and a half times the magnitude of warming. The worst case scenario can only be avoided if we all act to change the current processes. In order to succeed, a global campaign has been launched recently. Al Gore, former Vice President of the United States, Nobel Prize-winning climate protector, would like to address every seventh person in the world, some 1 billion in total, and encourage him to raise his voice in favour of our common cause. President János Áder also joined the campaign and launched the website www.elobolygonk.hu for the purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you and all Hungarian people to join the initiative, and as many of us Hungarians as possible are raising our voices. Let us not let others decide our future. The more people we participate in the climate campaign, the more chance we have of reaching a favourable agreement in Paris. In view of all this, I ask my fellow Members that we all side with the initiative, regardless of their party affiliation, to support it by signing it and encourage our acquaintances to do so. Let us preserve our planet so that we can provide a lifeable life for ourselves and our offspring. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-15-358	In response to the last speech on the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs spoke with the title "Destruction - South Somogyi Village Tour IV." I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-06-15-359	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the government likes to use public employment for cheap campaign purposes. The public works programme is an inherently good initiative, and it is also necessary in the spirit of work and slogans rather than aid, but only if it involves real, meaningful production work. Small-town mayors perform their task of humiliatingly low salaries, which, if they take their profession seriously, is a 24-hour hard service. A lot depends on what the outcome of a public work programme will be. The case of Gyöngyfa in Baranya County is notable, where 36 public workers in the village cleaned a three hundred meter long trench for six months because there was no meaningful work in the area. Yes, if the mayor doesn't want or dare to confront, he can't give us a normal purpose, then in our county we also meet a phenomenon that Jenő Hidden In his legendary novel The Three Bodyguards in Africa. [[22.00]] You know, it's Okbur's oasis station chief, who's drunk at 8:20 a.m. on a regular basis, answering all questions with folk songs. There's only one difference around here that the repertoire is exhausted in one of the hits of the Fighting Pityu or the Bodi family. Luckily, however, this is not the general one, since it is predominantly very busy to meet public workers' groups. But from the generalities, let's go back to the specific settlements. When I was in Kálmancsa, I could not accept the fact that in the village where an average of 8 hectares of land is available for a resident, with a total of 1,400 inhabitants at the beginning of the last century, but today there are less than 600 enthusiastic houses, which are very nicely maintained and organized in terms of public spaces and public buildings, where there are on average 8 hectares of land for a resident, why village life cannot be a real alternative, and why, in addition to such conditions, more and more houses are emptying themselves to eventually become a ruin. CHAPTER XVI In the century there was still a Reformed Episcopal College, from here it began to write history, including Sánta Márton Kálmáncseh and István Szegedi Kiss. But the question is whether the village survives the XXI. Company. I could not accept that, while the village and the neighbouring Rinyaszent Király bordered by thousands of hectares in recent years, the Benetton lordship, which has owned a large part of the land here, has taken over 2.5 billion forints of support, even the simple Scrollers need a sealed pass to collect nettles from the municipal roads and trenches, because, in the absence of this, they will find themselves facing the authority. Aid to the major estate for the social and economic death he's spreading, police fines on the state are obviously extremely dangerous, unauthorized trench-coastal nettle picking. Now, that's what they say no comment, so let's fly to the Felsőbogat and Bertalan-pustas next to Segesd. I can say without exaggeration, the careless traveler may believe that he is not in Internal Somogy, but rather in Internal Africa, because such conditions can only be somewhere in Zaire: huge contrasts and the terrible social tensions threatening to explode in a few decades' time, in the consciousness of the demographic war that has already been lost in this region from the point of view of Hungary. From the wilderness to the west, LMP's parliamentary candidate has received HUF 215 million in subscribed capital, with HUF 1 billion in HUF 200 million, but it is the property centre of Kutasi Mezőkert Zrt., which employs only 16 people in its vast areas. From the wilderness to the east, the Hertelendy mansion, which is suitable for the reception of private jets, truly a marvellous jewel, might even satisfy the needs of János Lázár. In addition, according to the price list of their website, a dinner of HUF 26,000 can be made out of a pot of 150 grand per person per night. While 50 million Ferrariks and Maserati are cracking on the road to Segesd, poverty at the end of the almost impenetrable access road between the LMP estate centre and the castle hostel is merely a bustling bust. Destroyed buildings, an army of naked sweatshops in the yard of the shitty shacks, and obviously nothing. The ghetto has become merely a terrible tempo for poverty to regenerate. Integration, the chances of social mobility are zero. The question is whether people here can hear the word of István Forgács, who is difficult to accuse of anti-Gypsy racism, that giving birth young and giving birth to poverty are not cultural rights and values. The question is whether they will hear the words of the Borsodii Vojvodina, Attila Lakatos, that the child is responsible, and should not allow the heads to moot about how much the child is born to increase the family allowance. But there's also the responsibility of the government. It's a question of whether they'll hear the warning. Because there's no job for anyone who really wants to work. And the growing Bertalan kisses slowly absorb the villages and become coherent zones. And then Forgács' prediction will be fulfilled: if this does not change, the country will surely fall into economic bankruptcy and the vortex of unmanageable social tensions - specifically its undoing. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-15-360	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the first day of our first summer special session will take place tomorrow at 9:00. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 10:03 p.m.]]
