u2015-02-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Ádám Mirkóczki will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking before today's agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, LMP Group:. Why do we have to hide the business of the century? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-18-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, There were many people in Hungary who believed that the people could be, that they could be against the nation, that people could be ignored and that Hungary could be governed. I quoted this sentence from Viktor Orbán, but not from the Viktor Orbán we know today, but from Viktor Orbán in 2009. Unfortunately, since then, the current Prime Minister of Hungary has found a new role model, friend and master in Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Illiberal democracy, breakdown of the rule of law, harassment of civilians and encryption madness, this was an insufferable practice, which now means sad everyday life in Hungary. In this political and geopolitical situation, Viktor Orbán could have one political goal: to increase Hungary's sovereignty, reduce our dependence and increase our independence. Instead, Viktor Orbán used the last few years to replace one addiction with another. You know, my fellow Members, Hungary is a small country, but this is not a barrier to being strong, and even if it is a 21st century. We'd use centuries-old solutions, we'd be progressive, then we'd have a strong country. According to the facts, this is what the majority of Hungarians seem to see. Let me introduce you to the research you've done on the Media on a representative sample of 1,200 people on behalf of Greenpeace. [[He's showing me a document.]] This proves that 66 percent of Hungarians, if they had a choice, would choose alternative green energy. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who in this House is speaking and acting in accordance with the will of the Hungarian people. Possibly Other in Politics does that. And what does the company that was put in power by two thirds do? It governs against two thirds of Hungary's will. For what did these people, the 66 percent, who said that green energy should be given to Hungary? Since 2007, no licences have been issued for the construction of wind power plants in this country. In recent months, solar energy, wind energy, earth heat have been taxed, and virtually everything has been taxed, which could be produced environmentally, in view of the Hungarian people's wallets. What did these people get? What did this 66 percent of people get? He got Paks II. In fact, if Sergey Kirienko's words could be taken seriously from yesterday's trial, then some sort of discussion about other blocks began. This means that Fidesz-KDNP intended a nuclear colonial line for Hungarian people, including the 66 percent whose wish is for Hungary to use progressive green energy. By the way, you're ashamed of your performance, too, if you weren't ashamed, you wouldn't be encrypted. Today, we are going to discuss a bill in this House, about which John Lázár said that he will also remove the final obstacle to the Paks enlargement. I think the reality is that for 15 years, you're gonna be encrypting everything, all the documents relating to Paks II. Why do they do it? Because they're ashamed. In addition, procurements, all deliveries, are excluded from the scope of public procurement. Now, that means two things you're up to. One is that you and the Russians signed something with your eyes closed, and they can build whatever you want here, and we'll pay for it if we need it, if we don't. That's what you guys are up to, that's what you're working on. The other thing is that with Lajos Simicska gone, there are no moneybags who would be passing you, so we need new oligarchs, and there are two obvious ways for you, one Paks II, and the other one about MET. What's MET? For the sake of János Lázár, because he has not heard of this, there is practically a gas, coming from the West, cheaper than Russian gas, and you have renounced this right of sale, and you have given it to a profit-oriented company, who, instead of increasing taxpayers' wealth with gas, ends up in an offshore network where Viktor Orbán's friends, such as Mr Garancsi, wait for the money that comes out of this instead of tax forints. Now, we know that Paks II. There's a huge risk of corruption. If everything is classified, then the circumstances are also guaranteed to be stolen, and you are preparing to do so today, you will talk about this law. Money means political power, if you get this - it's a EUR 12 billion investment - then you can secure your political power here for a long time. Hungary, you know, you've become a pretty depressing place. On the other hand, the LMP takes the view that Hungary has all the potential to become a prosperous republic. You know, Russian dependence is not a situation for us to adapt to, but a situation that we can change and change, and that is exactly what the Hungarian people want us to change. Don't get any illusions, the backup deals of yesterday's business will come out. Transferring strategic gas reservoirs, additional blocks? What's this about? What were they talking about? We don't know. But 66 percent of people want green energy, don't forget that.
u2015-02-18-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-18-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to the Hungarian Prime Minister, the Hungarian Government and my conviction, a significant majority of the Hungarian Parliament make their decisions first in the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy, and form the rules and laws that facilitate the functioning of society and the economy. This also applies to reliable and affordable energy supply. The financial framework for the Paks plant's capacity-building investment is accessible to all, since the relevant loan agreement was adopted by the Parliament by law. The law states that the maximum amount of the loan is EUR 10 billion. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett is shaking his head.]] which source can only be used to finance the works, services and procurement of assets necessary for the design, construction and installation of blocks 5 and 6 of the Paks power plant. Additional conditions can be found in the same legislation and can be known to everyone. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true!]] It is unsubstantiated to you that the contracts relating to the investment would be permanently encrypted, since the T/2250 before the House on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and amending the related laws is T/2250. The legislative proposal No 1 clearly sets out the deadlines for the contracts to be known after the expiry of which. In determining the rules on data disclosure, the government has also taken into account international, mainly or for example French regulatory practice. I suppose you don't question France's freedom, state form, state of mind. In France, the determining authority may refuse to provide information on requests for data where the issue of data would jeopardise the interests defined by law. According to French legislation, this includes, inter alia, data relating to the foreign policy activities of the State, data relating to national security, public security, monetary policy and public debt. [[9.10]] The French authorities may also refuse to provide information on the preparatory documents, but in that case the applicant shall be informed of the date on which the document or information concerned becomes available. The regulation proposed by the Government is therefore also in line with international practice and with the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information, as it ensures that the right to access public data in the public interest and in the public interest is limited by the law. The scope of the Nuclear Energy Act, which is to be amended by the bill, does not necessarily cover environmental procedures and is not affected by them, so environmental impact assessments should be carried out before any installation activity is started. Its rules are laid down in the environmental law and its implementing legislation, which allow the public, inter alia, to know the environmental impact assessment documentation, to hold a public hearing, and also to make available to the public the environmental information relevant for the granting of an environmental permit. Madam Member, so much for the law before this House today. As regards alternative energies, Madam President, you know very well that the Paks, which is currently the cheapest, reliable and even energy supply, currently accounts for 40% of the country's electricity. Paks expansion, blocks 5 and 6 will in the long run give essentially the same 40 percent, in good case 50 percent. Alternative energy, which must not be compared with nuclear energy, must be provided side by side together, has the potential for an additional capacity of 50-60 per cent. Why aren't you fighting to fill this out? Why are you always against everything? Why don't you speak up for something? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-18-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda: on current issues. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-18-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán said this a few years ago. Yesterday we saw that it was true. Yesterday he visited Hungary and paraded Russia's president, yesterday he was the set of Hungary Putin's power policy. Viktor Orbán had already vowed days earlier that he would represent the interests of the Hungarian nation, and it is clear today that yesterday's visit was only favourable to Vladimir Putin. It has become clear that the President of Russia who was involved in the war has used Viktor Orbán and Hungary only as a biodecoration to show that there are other EU and NATO countries where they welcome him with friendship. Putin sent a message from an EU and NATO country to Europe, the United States and Ukraine. Europe's dependence on Russia on the continent's energy supply will depend on Russia and will depend on it in the future; the United States on arms shipments; Ukraine's leaders have been set up as almost aggressors, while there have been bloody struggles in the eastern part of the country despite the truce. At the same time, Putin also used this visit to sell the amount of gas we have not called to us more expensively than he could sell anywhere in Europe. I would like to record some facts in this regard. The long-term gas supply contract and the resulting obligation were not inherited by the Orbán government, but purchased with HUF 300 billion of taxpayers' money. This obligation was previously imposed on E.ON, not on the Hungarian State. It must also be noted that Russian gas has always been the most expensive than others, compared to other sources, and is still the most expensive. Yesterday, it was also revealed that Gazprom had an eye for the Hungarian gas reservoirs. Vladimir Putin was therefore a successful representative of Russian interests; the same can be said of Viktor Orbán - he was also an effective representative of Russian interests. It is no coincidence that Viktor Orbán is deeply silent about how much to pay for the unused Russian gas if we call him off. Our suspicion is that Orbán didn't talk about it because Russia will give this gas more expensive than we could buy it elsewhere in this period. The fact that Hungary buys the huge excess Russian gas more expensive than the market price is clearly a Russian interest. The fact that Viktor Orbán agreed to this is a betrayal of the Hungarian national interest, and if we could have had Russian gas cheaper now, because the price of natural gas has been so cheap on the world market for a month now that it could have been enforced by Hungarian consumers and average consumers, and the Hungarian government has been in debt for a month now. This price reduction should have been passed on to Hungarian consumers already. In this respect, the MSZP has a bill. The submission has been made, please support it. Yesterday, however, Viktor Orbán committed himself not to buy cheap gas, but to buy expensive Russian gas from Putin. Orbán thus sabotages the gas bill reduction, which could be given to Hungarian people because of cheap gas. Viktor Orbán prefers to fill the pockets of Gazprom. Therefore, MSZP demands that the Hungarian government immediately disclose exactly what was agreed yesterday between Orbán and Putin. We have a right to know what they're up to with the Hungarian gas reservoirs. These are important issues, since Hungary's energy independence is at stake, as it is difficult to miss: there is a danger that we will be re-listed to the Russian sphere of interest. Now, this may not be a military occupation, but an economic sphere of interest. The government either does not perceive this danger or does not worry it, even as if it is helping this dangerous process. Energy dependency will be a key issue in the coming years, Europe's energy hunger is enormous. There are agreements, sometimes open and secret, that can make Hungary a forward economic bastion of Russia. And if you, honourable members of the Government, object to this, I will now tell you that in the last half minute I have quoted only the literal statement of Viktor Orbán from 2007. I congratulate Viktor Orbán on going to Moscow, and on the 70th anniversary of the end of the Second World War, he will be able to wave to the soldiers of the Russian army with President Putin. With respect, instead of representing the Hungarian national interest, President Putin forced Russian interests on the Hungarian Prime Minister and Hungary. Thank you for listening.
u2015-02-18-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, István Mikola wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-18-7	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say a few words about the long-term gas supply contract, its substance, its prospects and its benefits for Hungary. On 30 September 2013, the E.ON-MVM transaction made it possible to continue the renegotiation of long-term contracts with the participation of the Hungarian State. With the transaction, MVM entered into the long-term gas supply contract concluded on 1 October 1996. The pricing of current contracts is not competitive and the volume of the annual contract exceeds the quantity that can be sold without loss. The current volume delivery obligation in 2015 exceeds the annual Hungarian gas consumption, the latter in 2013 was 9.2 billion cubic metres, while in 2014 and 2015 it is expected to be between 8 and 8.5 billion cubic metres. In order to manage this, Hungarian Natural Gas Dealer Zrt. continue to negotiate with the Russian partner both in terms of quantity and price. Russia will continue to play an important role in Hungary's gas supply in the coming decades. However, this cooperation will be fruitful only in the case of a contract that provides gas to Hungary at a sufficiently flexible, market-based and competitive price. In view of Hungary's remote location from natural gas sources, while at the same time its significant gas consumption, it is necessary to ensure a safe and cost-effective solution for gas supply in the long term. Despite the closure of the South Stream project, we see that, alongside the smaller capacity cross-border lines planned in the region, there is a need for a significant capacity line capable of transporting 15-20 billion cubic metres of gas per year, which can provide us with an alternative transport route from the Turkish-Greece border via Macedonia and Serbia. [[9.20]] There is a need for common thinking in order to define and establish procurement routes after 2019. Gas storage cooperation was also a topic for the Putin-Orbán meeting. Gazprom sells 140 billion cubic metres of gas per year in the Central European region, and Gazprom's top priority is to fill its own and leased underground storage facilities. He has a number of leases across Europe. Hungary has significant storage capacity. Hungarian legislation allows gas companies from non-EU Member States to have access to the free capacity of storage facilities, and guarantees gas storage in Hungary and the subsequent sale of the stock thus stored by maintaining the ownership of natural gas. That came up at the meeting yesterday. Hungary is open to continue its cooperation in 2014. The legislative environment established in 2014 will continue to provide access to the free capacity of Hungarian storage sites in order to store Russian gas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda with the title "Welding" instead of a waiter. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-18-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Humanly, professionally and legally, the government made a disastrous decision when, following its failure to comply with the law, more than half a year after the deadline laid down by law, it published the Government Decree on vocational training. First of all, the human aspect should be mentioned, since three days before the admission application was concluded, a government decree was issued which practically completely rewritten training opportunities throughout vocational training. Schools and children were in an impossible situation, learning overnight that over the decades they could not start any of their traditionally qualified majors and that they had to start training on a completely different profile. From shopping to Tapolca, many small towns have caused problems with this. Traditional trainings that have been in operation for decades may therefore cease, and the infrastructure that has been built to do so will also become a waste if they do not change their decisions. This is clearly an additional cost to these schools and children, which is clearly the government's fault. This decision should have been taken by the deadline of 31 July, but the Government decree was published on 10 February instead. The question is, what will happen to children who only submitted their applications to one place, because schools could not wait for the government's decision, they had already announced the trainings in October last year, fulfilling their legal obligations. Obviously, there were many children who followed the practice of submitting their application to a single place, in line with decades of tradition, especially in small towns, and now on 10 February it turned out that school could not start such training. On 17 February, the Education Office sent a circular to have these children removed from their own records by schools, and thus these families and children will be forced to search for a new school after admission applications have been closed. There is also a clear tendency to divert children to large cities, such as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, where there is a very high proportion of disadvantaged children and there is a great possibility that they will be taken up. For example, if the situation does not change in this town, children will be forced to visit Miskolc, not only from small towns but also from villages, thus increasing their exposure and making it harder for them to get to schools. There will be institutions that will be forced to close, but they will have to change at least maintenance, or they will be able to go begging for KLIK, so that they may already transfer capacity from the state's maintenance side, but because of the educational letter ordering the cancellation of applications, they may not be able to do so either. It was also written in a non-public document that they wanted to perform these tasks primarily through the State Institutional Support Centre, only KLIK does not have the infrastructure, the teaching and pedagogical background that it could perform the tasks assigned to it. This is gonna be a huge problem. In addition, previously unlimited advertising courses were subsequently put into the non-supported line, so many trainings could not be started by schools, because they said afterwards that they should have requested them, but they did not have the opportunity to do so until the deadline. It is clear that legal objections are also raised in relation to this decision. The Fundamental Law requires that sufficient preparation time be provided for the persons concerned after the publication of a law. From 10 February to 13 February, a full VET recruitment procedure cannot be rewritten. It is clear that the government's failure to comply with the law is the reason why neither children nor schools can simply not follow the law. And of course, it cannot be arranged that a new admission process will be launched. That's the minimum they have to do to keep the kids out of the street, or they don't have to miss a year of government error because of further education. It is quite clear that the failure to comply with the government's legal obligations is what caused this situation. But there are also professional objections to this decision. The non-state maintainers had to draw up a five-year plan last year on what training they would like to launch during this period. This was prepared, submitted, on the government desk, but in many cases it was simply ignored, as if it did not exist. Secretary of State, I do not expect you to acknowledge your mistake, but I do expect you to solve your own problem by thinking of these children and families. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-18-11	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, That Government Decree, which contains the list of professions, cannot in essence be interpreted on its own. The regulation related to this concept is the 2011 CLXXXVII on Vocational Training. it is issued under law and is intended to define by county the educational framework for vocational education and training to be financed by the State for a given academic year. This is the so-called professional structure decision, which applies to the needs of the economy in training supported by the State, taking into account labour market needs. Its direct aim is to ensure that no school, regardless of the maintainer, receives state aid for training that the labour market does not need. The decision in the annexes to the Government Decree is a table containing some 40 rows, depending on the county, from 4 to 40 columns and from 20 to 279, i.e. a very extensive regulation. For the purpose of establishing the Government Decree, the planned training directions and framework numbers for vocational training supported by the State are proposed annually by the county development and training committees on the basis of the rules laid down in the VET Act, as well as the range of skills trainings to avoid and reduce labour shortages in that region supported by a vocational school scholarship. In view of the need to adapt the proposed proposals to economic, labour market changes, to avoid labour shortages or over-training, a higher or lower number of supported frameworks, which vary in several cases each year, will be set. However, the extent and proportion of these changes will always be recorded taking into account regional vocational training capacities, the profile, capacity of vocational training schools and the expected number of students, so that there will be no unexpected situation, such as mass metal training from one year to another instead of construction training. The planned directions and framework figures for the academic year 2015-16 became known in the context of social consultation as early as last September. For vocational training institutions that are in a more favourable position than prior consultation because they have been given the opportunity to start new professions, the government will provide the opportunity to participate in the recruitment process and to fill the framework for new training opportunities received by temporary changes to the relevant rules and deadlines. So the problem will be solved, which you raised. [[9.30]] In this context, students applying for the courses concerned will also have the opportunity to change their original intention to study and apply. The information published during the week on changed recruitment opportunities and related activities of schools and parents will help schools, which they will receive and receive directly by electronic means. Contrary to the press reports published recently, there is no problem for the vast majority of vocational schools to change the published training directions and frame numbers. They were only slightly altered and in county aggregation they changed in a more favourable direction than before. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes several times.]] Several vocational schools, however, designed their recruitment framework numbers and received the application of students, to a greater extent than the draft they had been familiar with at the social consultation, taking unnecessary risks. However, students should not be disadvantaged because their training can take place in another vocational training institution, designated as the second and third in their application form. In the vast majority of state and ecclesiastical vocational schools, there was no such problem. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-18-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr István Simicskó, from the KDNP Group, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As Christian Democrats, we believe and confess that the most important values of our society, the pledges of our future, are our children. Therefore, by all means, we must strive to provide them with conditions for a healthy lifestyle, so that healthy generations grow up with healthy physique and spirituality. One of the very important tools for this is sport. Allow me to read from the book Hungarian Sport, published in the '20s. [[He's showing it to me.]] I quote the Royal Prince Albrecht, who says: "The results of Hungarian sports have been a great power in the eyes of the sports world for a long time. Achieving this position of great power is the merit of the past, and it is the task of the future. So our grandparents, our parents and us, and then our children will have a job to do. The introductory ideas end in such a way, it literally says: "S the signs, the successive great international events, all show that Hungarian sports stand up to the fight, they can stand the competition. It's the most promising sign of the future. Let us not forget that we are after Trianon, when this book was written, and indeed one of the important means of maintaining the future, the national unity, the national consciousness was seen in sport. We can always draw strength from the field of sport in relation to national unity. What was the situation in 2010 when we took over government? We have seen that only 5 percent of Hungary's population regularly played sports, and we have seen that about 75 percent of our young people, our children, have done any kind of physical exercise only in the framework of physical education. These were very serious problems that had to be changed. Therefore, we have set a threefold target system in the field of sport. One is for all Hungarian children to play sports, the other is to bring as many sports competitions and international competitions to Hungary as possible, and the third is to provide the necessary facilities, so that we can create the conditions for sport through this. It's the government's job, nothing else. It seems that over the past four years, the government has done a great deal to make progress. We have introduced everyday physical education, from this year, September we have achieved that nearly 1 million 200 thousand children play sports for 12 years, each teaching day. This is an important result, this is a qualitative breakthrough, a milestone for Hungarian sport. We have achieved an increase of 110,000 people in the number of children who are certified athletes, most of whom are in the age group. It's a huge achievement. This alone represents a very serious result, a 46.7 percent increase in the number of athletes. We support the 16 flagship sports together with the MOB, which means that in the past year and a half, the number of young athletes has increased by 20 percent. The number of coaches increased by 14 percent, and the number of associations and sports associations increased by 5 percent. The fact is, we would like to take further action on this path. Obviously, KDNP will give the government all the support we need to continue to achieve success in sport. With regard to the facilities, we know what a serious development programme has been launched, training schools are being built, gymnasiums are being built, handball halls are being built to name just a few. With regard to competitions, 41 world competitions will be held this year. We will host, among other things, the adult women's basketball European Championship, the Budapest judo Grand Prix, the kayak-kenu marathon world championship, the pentathlon World Cup, and in 2015 we will also host the Open Water Swimming World Cup, the hot air balloon-Europe Championship, the gg-world cup, the fencing World Cup, to name just a few of the 41. The KDNP fraction believes that every forint we invest in sport is the building of the nation's future, the health of our children, the physical and mental balance. Sport is a unique resource, since it can strengthen national identity, bring together people of different world views and minds. We know that victory brings common ground, we know that we speak a language, a language of sport that is important to all of us. As a Christian Democrat politician, I believe we have no other task than to put this resource, the resources of sport, and sport into the service of building society as much as possible. We know that Christianity is a universal value, sport is a universal language. When an athlete, a player, is said to be athletic, it means it's fair, it means it's good. In this spirit, we want to continue to be part of the government, and we want to do our job in this spirit. To do this, we ask for the help and support of all our fellow Members so that we can continue to strengthen Hungarian sport in the future. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-18-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda, with the title "Stable Growth in Europe's Leading Point." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-18-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2010, a very important process started in Hungary, and the Hungarian economy went on a different path, the signs of which appeared quite well in 2013, and by 2014, the numbers of the economy developed quite nicely for this year. In order to mention some of these figures, I would like to note that GDP, gross domestic product development, has surprised everyone what a good figure it was, 3.4 percent this increase in the last year. Other indicators have also developed quite nicely, unemployment has also fallen dramatically in Hungary, with only 7.1 percent unemployment today. Of course, we cannot rest until there is one person in Hungary who wants, can and can work and has no job. So we have to work constantly so that everyone has a job in Hungary and we can achieve full employment in this respect. We must also approach the issue of poverty from the work side. Because we can be happy, we can say that there are no poor people in Hungary if everyone who really wants, can and can work has a job. The figures on inflation have also turned out nicely, as there is now deflation in Hungary, right, -1.4 percent inflation, which means that the Hungarian economy was able to take a very low course in inflation. This low inflation trend must continue to be maintained, as this is good for the Hungarian economy, which is good for the Hungarian people as well. The increase in industrial production is also significant. It is very important that we can count on a 7.1 percent increase here too, which is good for Hungarian families and good for Hungarian people. It is particularly good that our exports have increased by 11.1 percent over the past period, which also means that our exports have increased more than our imports, so the positives of our external trade balance are constantly increasing. Of course, these numbers are not in themselves, and we need to mention them not to show how beautiful the numbers are, but to determine what direction, for whom we must work and how we must proceed. We ourselves want to work to strengthen the financial security of Hungarian people living on wages and salaries. We would like to work to help the government in Hungary, to help the people working hard, and to help the Parliament. This year we have a great deal of work ahead of us, and we have laid the foundations for this in part last year, but we need to keep an eye on it, and we need to make sure that these goals are achieved this year as well. [[9.40]] For example, this task is to complete the accountability of banks, as we know that the legislation adopted last year can answer many things. As a result, we can achieve such an effect as if we had converted Swiss franc loans to HUF 190 at the rate of HUF, and now, when we see how the Swiss franc exchange rate changes from the figures of the Hungarian economy, regardless of the Hungarian economy, we can see that the Hungarian government has taken action at the right time, the Parliament has entered with a good sense of pace, because according to the current rules, Hungarian families and credible families could be safe, and the Hungarian credible can now be on a predictable course. We must continue to ensure that wage increases can continue in Hungary. Deflation itself, therefore, a negative inflation, will help real wages to grow in this form, but, of course, there is a lot of action to be taken. As you can see, the minimum wage has also increased seriously, now the minimum wage is 105,000 forints, which represents a 3.4 percent increase in recent years, but if you look at how much this was compared to 2010, you can see that this is a 43 percent increase. In the future, the career model of armed and law enforcement workers will also be launched, with an average wage increase of 30 percent this year and a further 5-5 percent increase per year. Support for families and the preservation of the family tax system are an important issue in the next period, and additional support for first-wives has been extended to include housing benefits. These issues are the ones that should continue to be addressed. We must therefore support the Hungarian families, because these results that we can achieve are based on the performance of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, and on this we have an obligation to promote the improvement of Hungarian people who live on wages and salaries. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-18-17	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The performance of the Hungarian economy in 2014 was indeed significantly higher than the expectations of the government. The players of the Hungarian economy did not expect such performance, nor did international analysts, nor did the credit rating agencies expect the Hungarian economy to achieve such performance, the performance of the first three-quarters of years was known, but the Hungarian economy remained on a growing path in the fourth quarter. And what is particularly to be acknowledged is that the performance of the Hungarian economy was several times higher than the average of the European Union, since while the Hungarian economy grew by 3.5 percent annually, the 28 countries of the European Union were able to increase the Hungarian economy by 1.3 percent, i.e. by nearly three times. And what is very surprising and very positive is that the last quarterly data, quarter-quarter-year comparison, was a 0.9 percent increase in Hungary, while in the European Union this figure was only 0.4 percent, i.e. twice the average of the European Union. This is a very important thing, because the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian businesses fulfilled all of this by having to face the negative economic impact of the Russian-Ukrainian crisis and the resulting negative confidence mood. It is also a very positive development, considering the international dimension, that the economy of our most important foreign trade partner, Germany, started to grow at the end of the year and was able to grow by 0.7 percent on a quarterly basis. Unfortunately, there are also less performing countries in the European Union, so Greece and Finland have also started to shrink. If we now remember the thoughts of Hungary being compared to Greece and predicting the Greek way to Hungary, the Hungarian economy, then you can see now that the two countries have started in two different directions and Hungary has started up. The comparison with the Visegrád countries is also very interesting, as Hungary's economy has grown most effectively here, because only Poland, who has performed for a long time, has been able to deliver only above 3 per cent performance, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are also behind us with less than 3 per cent performance. If we compare this performance to ourselves, then we must compare it to GDP before the 2008 crisis, and now we can finally say that Hungary has reached its pre-crisis level, so we can now only add to the performance achieved at the time of the crisis. The big question is, of course, why Hungary. Why, among the 28 Member States, Hungary, who has had a lot of disputes with the European Union, has managed to lead Europe in 2014 with its economic performance. It is clear that the performance of many Hungarians is involved in this, and I modestly say that perhaps the government's economic policy ideas, decisions and objectives have also helped to ensure that the Hungarian economy has shown stable growth since 2013. Individual and specific decisions have been made in Hungary, since, by examining the internal content of economic growth, it is clear that, in addition to the performance of industrial performances, trade, tourism and agriculture, which has contributed very much to the growth of the economy, the expansion of demand, which comes from several factors. On the one hand, the positive effects of the reduction in costs and, on the other hand, the low inflation and the reduction in oil prices have also stimulated demand. And, as you said, it is expected to increase demand in 2015, as this will further increase and strengthen demand and economic growth will be lasting in Hungary, due to the accounting of banks and the closure of foreign exchange transactions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-18	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The 2003 XCII on the system of taxation follows a series of steps. a joint debate on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Electronic Road Traffic Control System in an exceptional procedure. The submission was made in T/3118. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee has not submitted a summary amendment, its summary report T/3118/3. You can get to know him on the network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-18-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm sorry. [[He's pinning his microphone.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, XCII of 2003 on the system of taxation. With effect from 1 January 2015, the electronic road traffic control system, the so-called EKAER, was introduced, with the primary objective of strengthening the position of compliant operators, ensuring the transparency of trade in goods, excluding the abuse of foodstuffs that are often harmful to human health, and not least the elimination of tax avoidance. T/3118 on the amendment of the 2003 Tax Act in the context of the electronic road traffic control system. The aim of the legislative proposal is to establish a regulation that will allow for the establishment of a regulation, based on assumptions from practical life, which is capable of resolving issues arising from the operation of the system as quickly as possible within a flexible framework. Dear Parliament, In recent years, after the introduction of the system's test mode, there have been many consultations, consultations, consultations and requests for an opinion on the implementation of the EKAER system. [[9.50]] The Ministry's staff, its management, the Minister himself, I personally visited several companies, we had discussions on how to make this system transparent, less bureaucratic and indeed useful for the economy as a whole, for all players in the economy. In one place there was no question of questioning the introduction of the system. Everyone supports and everyone acknowledges the government's goal, which is clearly the whitening of the economy. In particular, the debates or criticisms or proposals concerned how this system could be introduced in such a way as to make it acceptable, less bureaucratic for those concerned, but at the same time to facilitate the activities of that economic company or undertaking. By summing up these experiences, the Ministry of National Economy has reached a decision and the Government has also accepted that in future legislation should only apply in the first place to the introduction of the system, but details of this need to be regulated in a forthcoming ministerial regulation. Therefore, in the coming period, following the adoption of the Ministerial Regulation for a social debate, at the latest next week, details should appear, which clearly follow the direction that economic operators expected from the Ministry, namely, that in several cases there is expected to be facilitation and simplification in the Ministerial Regulation, but further tightening of risky products is expected, in order to prevent tax evasion. The bill also includes a change in the deadline for the obligation to provide risk guarantees by 11 March 2015 and therefore, for the first time on 11 March, it is necessary to provide risk guarantees to taxpayers who are obliged to do so. This is for a very simple reason that those who request their inclusion in the public debt-free taxpayer database during February, because they thus trigger the obligation to pay the risk guarantee, for the first time, who submitted this request in February, publish this database on 10 March, and therefore, if they are included in this database, they do not need to pay risk guarantees, they are exempted from this payment. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, So a single regulation will be created, the law will allow the Minister to develop the detailed arrangements, and this will not prevent the new EKAER system from actually working and operating as of 1 March, which is unique in Europe, and an additional 11 days for the payment of the risk collateral. I respectfully ask the Parliament, my fellow Members, to discuss and vote on the bill on Friday. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-18-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, with a total time frame of 15 minutes available for the speech. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2015-02-18-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 16 February 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2003 XCII on the Rules of Taxation. T/3118 on the amendment of Act T/3118 relating to the electronic system for the control of the movement of goods by road Bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. As a reminder, you're the original XCII. Law was born over the last decade to reduce VAT fraud, and this was a very important objective of the law. Specialized criminal groups, misuse of EU internal legislation across internal borders, often using companies established for criminal purposes, sometimes travelling only on paper, but often on roads, claimed illegal traffic taxes in the order of billions, thus damaging the budget. However, their hard-to-discover and unveilable activities have not only damaged the budget. Whole sectors have been compromised, Hungarian producers and traders, Hungarian businesses following the law, and ultimately Hungarian consumers, we have become victims of this series of widespread fraud. Therefore, fair and compliant Hungarian producers, carriers and traders have accepted the objectives of the law with understanding - as the State Secretary mentioned in his introduction - and have expressed their support after several and varied consultations, since all stakeholders see that it is easy to see that, in the medium, long term, the interests of consumers and fair and compliant businesses are served by both the law and this amendment. At the same time, of course, no one can be expected to be happy with any additional administrative burden. The aim of the proposal is to adapt the operation of the system to the practical features of the electronic road traffic control system, the EKAER, since the introduction of the system on 1 January 2015, in the light of experience gained by the tax authorities and taxpayers in consultation with users. In this way, it is essentially adapted to the forthcoming completion of the trial operation of the EKAER, also mentioned by the Secretary of State. An essential element of the proposal is the development of more flexible rules and the detailed rules for the operation of the system are laid down in the same ministerial regulation. There has been some debate within the committee, and it has been rounded up around it, so it is worth mentioning that this regulation means that the list of products included in the regulation, so-called risky ones, can be changed continuously. The Minister shall decide whether to list or remove certain products from the list. This is, among other things, because, as a result of the disclosures, criminals quickly and flexibly switched to other chapters, continuing the series of frauds, damaging the budget and consumers. This amendment seeks to eliminate this possibility in line with the original objectives of the law. Mr President, Dear House, No amendments were tabled to the bill, and no amendments were made by the Legislative Committee. The summary report was adopted by the Committee with 19 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. I ask this House to support the amendment with its votes in favour. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-18-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have a timeframe of 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have a total timeframe of 8 minutes. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr István Happy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-18-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The fundamental objective of the electronic road traffic control system, as State Secretary András Tállai said, is to strengthen the position of the law-abiding market players, transparency in the transport of goods, the exclusion of food products that are often harmful to human health, and, not least, the elimination of tax avoidance. [[10.00]] EKAER started operations on 1 January and has a unique technical novelty. The T/3118 in front of us. The fundamental objective of the amendment to the legislation relating to the electronic road transport system is to make the use of the system life-like and flexible for carriers, based on the experience of the last one and a half months. The law now being amended was designed to reduce VAT fraud and the associated black economy. During the period since the introduction, producers and transport companies have indicated that while they agree with the fundamental objectives of the law, they consider it necessary to amend some points. I would like to mention two examples. Farmers have indicated that the maximum time between harvesting and transporting industrial vegetable crops to processing is six hours. The harvest and transport must also be carried out at night. After the whole process is monitored food safety from sowing to harvesting, it is considered unnecessary administration to ask for an EKAER number. Transport companies have indicated that if goods are taken from several locations abroad, they will have to wait for the EKAER number to arrive at the loading of the goods at each site. In their view, for goods imported from abroad, it would be sufficient to provide that only an EKAER number could enter the territory of Hungary. In the last month and a half, I myself have collected proposals such as these, and I have prepared for the spring session to submit them as an amendment. The government beat me to this, since the government, based on the experience of the test operation, has been able to do so. submitted by T/3118 on the 13th of October. Bill No.1, in order to adapt the system to the specifics in practice in the light of the experience gained by the tax authorities and taxpayers. The point of the amendment is to have a more flexible regulatory environment for the EKAER; detailed rules on operations will be dealt with through ministerial regulations. The proposals I have made will also be able to be resolved much more quickly and will make the system work better. The submitted proposal provides for the amount of the required risk collateral, which will be the first to be provided by 2015. CHAPTER III must be submitted from 11 a.m. to 11 a.m. In order to allow the system to operate smoothly from March onwards, it has become justified that the proposal before us is being dealt with in this House in an accelerated procedure. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that the group's position was presented by two Members within a total of 15 minutes' time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2015-02-18-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, It's a test run instead of legal security. It's the best way to describe the bill. The government is now consciously ignoring elements of the rule of law that seem insignificant to it, such as predictability, planning, and, in short, security. It is very conscious that the fundamental requirements of legislation are being reduced, as the rapporteur, Minister Varga, states that the aim of this proposal is to adapt to the completion of the EKAER trial. In your view, a law must be put into effect first, and then we can leave less than more time for citizens to prepare. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In a rule of law, this should be the other way around. At the end of last year, you, as usual, did not accept the legislation on the EKAER system without the necessary consultations. In vain, the experts told me that this was wrong. In vain, economic operators had already indicated that they needed more time to prepare. The German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce tried to make careful criticism. They wouldn't listen. Thus, the events that the country has experienced several times, whether in online cash registers or in electronic tolls, have come legally: rushing, pushing deadlines, retrofitting, fire fighting. Meanwhile, Hungarian businesses have no choice but to speed up their minds in view of the newer and newer changes, and they need to create a financial reserve for your unexpected legislative changes, instead of developing, investing or even creating new jobs in Hungary. The MSZP has repeatedly voiced criticisms about the EKAER system. The aim of reducing VAT fraud is in any case to be supported. This would be a very good legislative objective. However, the EKAER, if it achieves any results, will not be the end of fraud. It makes the life of honest entrepreneurs wishing to comply with their tax liability extremely difficult, causing a heavy administrative burden, while temporarily making the activities of companies specialising in fraud difficult, but unable to prevent it. Yet, it cannot be said that all of this was inevitable. To date, Hungarian entrepreneurs do not understand why they are not sufficiently consulted. You were not interested in the opinions of the entrepreneurs, so the Hungarian Socialist Party must now convey them to you. Why is EKAER not part of the electronic toll system? Why should a separate document system be operated, since the toll system has a route for all freight vehicles, it would be easier to record data only in it. Or why couldn't a complex system be established with the professional basis of EKAER being electronic invoicing, electronic bill of lading, electronic shipping? But you're not interested in that, nor are you interested in sound professional opinions. However, at least they do not provide the necessary preparation time for domestic businesses. With this bill, the rush continues. We see clarifications and suggestions everywhere - I quote quite precisely - and more flexible rules adapted to practical needs. A month or two after the law came into force. The proposal seeks to entrust a number of regulatory powers to ministerial regulations, so that in future the Minister for Taxation will be able to determine who is exempted from the EKAER requirements. We hear very varied reasons from representatives of the government, such as the fact that they were thinking of only a few specific groups, such as the transport of pharmaceutical products. Then I am right to ask why, if there really are only a few of these specific and well-defined cases, this has not been included in the bill. Why does the National Assembly give a Bianko the authority to establish a regulation that leaves the Minister's discretion to whom to exempt from this obligation, which is a serious administrative burden? Not to mention that companies are not in a better position even with the adoption of the bill, since they need to prepare for regulations that are not exactly the text, but even the draft. All of this, as you said, will be over on 1 March, and entrepreneurs will now be able to expect serious fines. Ladies and gentlemen, We still see nothing but thoughtless, hasty legislation, eventually explaining and fighting fire. At last realize that there is no trial in people's lives, because where you see only money for the budget, there are tens of thousands of people in the market, thousands of jobs and families. Instead of testing, they would do better to ensure safety, calmness, and predictability. Mr Vécsey mentioned that one of the most important objectives of this bill is to reduce the black economy. This is a very welcome political goal, and we believe that we should do the same, but while your commanding general likes the Dakota proverbs, I would not mention a dakota proverb, a Hungarian proverb on this matter: you are pouring out the child with bath water, because on the grounds that they are reducing the black economy, they are virtually suffocating it, putting a large mass of entrepreneurs and carriers in an almost impossible position. Mr Haughty will also talk to you about the problems in agriculture, but I have received a number of feedback from the entrepreneurial sphere that cannot be passed. For example, this proposal has a particularly harmful and even retracting power when, say, a particular carrier is transporting a product, a crop or any product he buys from somewhere, but he does not want to tell his seller where he's shipping it, because then I'd get out of there, and then they'd deliver it directly. In other words, there are a lot of life situations that this bill does not settle, but we continue to see that there is a rush on the bill. And that is, once again, that a Bianko will only be authorised by the Minister to determine which companies, which activities may be exempted from the EKAER, are considered to be particularly harmful. You know, we're living with the suspicion that there's likely to be something going on that companies, businesses or areas that might be close to you, Fidesz. So, overall, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this bill. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gábor Bellozó, another lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[10.10]]
u2015-02-18-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, You know, the problem with this bill is that Fidesz is starting out on its own again. Just because you, your government, look like a bad mob, doesn't mean that, honourable government representatives, Hungary is not a country of criminals. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Are you the good mafia?]] Some people use fictitious exports to lure VAT away. Several methods would be available to prevent this if this were the real aim. For example, [[György Balla: For example, Gábor Simon!]] Firstly, VAT should be sought at the place of the fraud, i.e. increased controls on imports of exports. [[Noise. Intercoms: Gábor Simon! Dr. Gábor Staudt: A little demagogue from their mouths! Dr. Répássy Robert: They're sitting down!]] And then the VAT... calm down. Relax, honourable Members, I know the truth hurts, but it is still my job to confront you with why what you are doing is unacceptable, just as this proposal is unacceptable. For example, if they wanted to solve it, they could also do that exports without VAT should be abolished. However, this should be agreed with the other countries in the European Union and should be in a relationship with the other countries concerned in the European Union so that an agreement can be reached at EU level. Only you are clearing the country out of the European Union, because you believe that it is better for us to coordinate with Russia, Putin, in the spirit of Eastern opening. If they wanted to help Hungarian businesses, they would have to consult with the European Union on this matter and not bother the most honest domestic players unnecessarily. The current crappy regime, which you are running here, may not be able to prevent the Hungarian entrepreneurs from being unharmed by its masses, but it is not the entrepreneurs who are responsible for this, but that you cannot handle the situation. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: The Golden Age has passed!]] The real solution is not harassment of victims, honourable government representatives! A real government must bring real solutions here. The government of the Hungarian community does not remove responsibility from itself, do not hide its inertia with a substitute act, but solve the problem! You know, if you can't solve the problem, [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You know, they don't know!]] can't solve the government's tasks, then it's not a real government, but rather an interest alliance. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This style needs to be refined!]] What is apparent from this amendment proposal is that they give the Minister permissions to decide who is affected and who is not affected by this law without any specific mandate or list. A real government does not collect business secrets, honourable fellow Members, from honest businesses, but prevents unfair competition by VAT fraudsters. It does not illegally and unnecessarily handle data, but cooperates with governments in neighbouring countries that have similar problems. It does not put its businesses at a competitive disadvantage with unnecessary burdens, but removes VAT fraud and thus the competitive disadvantage of decent businesses. One of the most seriously affected sectors of VAT fraud is the food industry, where, at least by reducing VAT on basic foods, VAT fraud could not only be eliminated, but it could also make these foods significantly cheaper for consumers, the people most in need. Why is it that every year, together with the Socialist Party, the agricultural purse initiates VAT reductions in this area, but somehow the government always has interests that prevent it from happening. A real government takes care of him to avoid suspicion: the reason the VAT mafia is so extensive is that certain elements of the government can be involved in the business. You know, ladies and gentlemen, if you were a real government, you would be working to prevent VAT fraud from being cheated on export markets because you control them and leave honest domestic businesses in peace, and you would not try to avoid responsibility. Therefore, this whole system that has been set up, I think it's a brazen thing, and the way you want to change it now is a pretend solution that gives us the potential for serious abuse, so obviously we can't support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-18-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-18-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After the fictions we have just heard, I would like to turn to the actual item on Parliament's agenda. XCII of 2003 on the system of taxation. T/3118 on the amendment of Act T/3118 relating to the electronic system for the control of the movement of goods by road The aim of the proposal is to adapt the operation of the system to the specifics in practice since the introduction of the electronic road traffic control system on 1 January 2015 in the light of the experience gained by the tax authorities and taxpayers in connection with the operation of the system. The bill therefore sets out more flexible rules on EKAER, in line with the practical needs, to regulate the detailed rules on the operation of the EKAER system by means of a ministerial regulation, leaving only the obligation of the EKAER and the obligation to provide insurance at the statutory level. The bill empowers the Minister responsible for tax policy to lay down all detailed rules on the operation of the EKAER in a regulation. The bill states that for the first time a risk guarantee should be provided from 11 March 2015. The bill provides that the rules applicable to EKAER, which will enter into force on 1 March 2015, are to be complied with in respect of the carriages started on 1 March 2015 and thereafter. On the basis of this amendment, the new provisions on EKAER will enter into force on 1 March 2015. Please support T/3118. Bill No.1, as the KDNP faction does. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-18-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2015-02-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We understand in the beginning why this law was introduced, and indeed, in the fight against VAT fraud, the establishment of the EKAER system seemed to be an important step, although problems have already arisen here. If a person examines these VAT frauds well, he must come to that point, we cannot think that EKAER will provide a solution to reducing VAT fraud. One of the methods of the crime is so-called carousel fraud, where one is to buy a particular product and then continue to pass it through with the intervention of one, two, three, four, and even five companies, so that the product is practically delivered to the retail market by the intervention of these companies, but only the first sale in EKAER is obliged to report it. So from here on out, we've had problems. Now you're trying to soften this system, otherwise. And now you can talk to me and tell me that these are fictions that we're talking about, and that we should talk about the law, and you can rely on NAV and more flexible regulation. But let's be honest, more flexible regulation means this, because that's what you write down. The Minister responsible for tax policy, i.e. one person, is empowered to lay down rules on the supply of goods, the purchase of goods and other purposes covered by the EKAER, the rules on the operation of the EKAER, the cases of exemption from the scope of the EKAER, and the rules on the risk guarantee, in particular the rules on the setting of the EKAER number, the scope of the notification, the scope of the obligation to report, the rules on individual exemptions from the notification obligation, and the rules on the reporting of changes to the EKAER electronic interface. [[10.20]] What does it mean? Everything. So the minister can define almost everything about the EKAER in one person. What has it been about, and what do we find problematic? For example, we consider it a problem that you would like to be able to determine in the Ministerial Decree issued for implementation that the paragraph should apply to products classified as risky by the Ministerial Decree issued for the implementation of this Act, and that will be determined by the Minister. Of course, you are now saying that there is a product list that has already been used to determine which products are risky. But this list of products can be extended at any time as they please. So far, it has been defined which products or even what products have become this. The day after tomorrow, if you think so, and if your economic lobby interests so desire, then someone might have eggs from here, or, say, bread or anything else. I mean, there's no definition of what it is. It could be anything, if it's the case. They're giving us a loophole! Why is it a problem that they're giving us loopholes? Don't forget - we can talk about fiction again - what has happened in this country in the last 25 years! In every case, serious economic crimes have a political role to play. It can be shown that those Members of Parliament, parties and governments who have sat in this House for the last 25 years have been involved, for example, in the oil-bending scandal. They were actively involved. For example, they defined and left the loopholes that may have led to the oil bleach scandal. Some people in this country have become billionaires. Then, when they started investigating this, the investigation kept failing, and then when there were such persistent people that the investigation led to results, everything was encrypted. Because this country, right now, is where we are. So it is legitimate to fear that we will give certain loopholes now, because it does not only involve giving you the risky products the opportunity to define them in a ministerial decree, but what else will they give to the Minister? It means that you can also determine who you are granting immunity from participating in this system. So far, it has been listed, so far it has been defined who they are, such as the Hungarian Defence Forces, the Military National Security Service - we can go through - disaster control, NATO and the others; and it is only a motor vehicle carrying alcohol products, beer, wine, champagne, intermediate alcoholic products, tobacco, dried tobacco, controlled petroleum products, bioethanol, biodiesel, E85 or more under the excise duty and special rules for the marketing of excise products. It was written, defined. Now you're gonna take this out. What does that mean? That, in line with their economic interests, for example, whether in the case of suppliers of alcohol products or in the case of suppliers of tobacco products, they believe that someone should be granted this exemption, that someone should not be granted this exemption. It's all a loophole. [[András Tállai says no to his head.]] It is possible to shake Mr Tállai's head, you know, Mr. Secretary of State, as I have said, in this country Fidesz-KDNP and the MSZP were both present and involved in major economic crimes. [[András Tállai: You're talking nonsense!]] And then you encrypted these data, as you may have done ten years later, when it turns out that here at the EKAER system there were abuses, when it turns out that these VAT frauds continued in the same way, just because you gave immunity to certain people, what will happen again? They're gonna encrypt it again for the next 50 years so we don't find out what kind of mess they've done. In a country where such things happened and could be mentioned, where Kaya Ibrahim, Iosip Tot might have disappeared, we could talk about all sorts of things, in a country like this, there is a real danger that if we leave such loopholes, they will take advantage of it. That's why you shouldn't leave such loopholes. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not want to support the fact that in Hungary we give at all the opportunity to commit economic crimes. And we are never going to assist you in helping these economic crimes in the first place. At last, the political elite should be able to clear the air, and I would like to quote the elite, of course, and I included myself, to make it work to close all kinds of loopholes. Let us leave the practice in this country to govern and legislate here in relation to certain economic and political mergers. No! Let us make laws and rule this country, try to work in such a way that it is good for Hungary and Hungarian people and not for certain privileged layers. It's not about anything else right now. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement cannot support the Minister's definition of such very important things in one person, I will say it again, and we have no idea who he will grant immunity to, we have no idea, and there is no restriction on who he will grant immunity, no restriction on who will qualify these products as dangerous products, if any. Gentlemen, this is not appropriate. It's not supposed to be necessary for the National Assembly. Why do we need laws? From now on, we must give every minister the opportunity to define everything in one person in this country. There is no need, since in this law there is one specific thing not written. There is only one specific proposal in this law. We're gonna give you one of those blank powers, like we're gonna say that from now on, the minister can do everything he wants about EKAER, do whatever he wants. Do you think that's appropriate? Do you think that's good? I'm just asking: do you, as government representatives, have absolute confidence in, say, one person without being able to control what you're going to do? [[Intercoms.]] I've been trusted! I've been trusted! That's why the oligarchs in this country must have grown out of the oligarchs they grew out of, and then they'll swear in the world again because they can swear in the world. They've been supporting the Public Machine for two years. For two years, the Public Machine could have won everything in this country! And now they're supposed to have Lajos Simicska as their biggest opponent. They trusted Lajos Simicska, even! [[Fidesz benches.]] If you like it this much, they trusted Ferenc Gyurcsány, they trusted Antal Apró, they trusted the Tiny Clan. They must have been oligarchs. They must have destroyed, say, the Malév. I want you to look me in the eye for the last 25 years. Look at what's happened in this country. I really don't want to generalize. If you don't have a shirt, don't take it personally. But think about what you've done to this country. What they did to that country... you did, by the way, and once again, respect for the exception who wasn't here. You did it! This country was one of the richest countries in 1990, at the time of the so-called regime change, compared to its territory. He had enormous state assets. It's not worth it, because it's left over from socialism. There's almost nothing left of this state's wealth. They privatized everything, sold everything out, and left everything at their back door. If you like it, Mr. Secretary, if you don't like it, it's still the experience of the last 25 years, and now you continue to do the same. [[András Tállai: You will continue!]] They're doing the same thing because they leave loopholes. [[András Tállai: Talk about the bill!]] They're leaving loopholes! We're gonna keep going, believe me. This country will be much better when the Jobbik are in power! They leave loopholes in various public procurements, they play it out to different friends, like tobacco retailing, they'll prepare for different friends to play alcohol retail, and we can continue. And here you are, leaving a loophole, leaving a loophole that you or your minister can abuse at any time. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] The Jobbik Movement for Hungary refuses to support such laws, refuses to participate in the practice that you have developed with the socialists, along with the left over the last 25 years, so we will never support such laws. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-02-18-33	Thank you. Dear House, In this House, in recent years, VAT fraud has appeared and received adequate publicity due to the LMP, in no small part, to the problem being dealt with. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] One of the important steps to prevent VAT fraud would be to set up a tracking system capable of detecting illegal production and distribution in contaminated industries. The professional challenge of introducing such a system is not to hinder normal economic activity in addition to the minimum necessary. [[10.30]] The situation is very briefly as follows. In a dilettant manner introduced by the government, the electronic road traffic control system, EKAER, causes much more damage than it does to prevent possible fraud. It follows that at present there is only one possible step for the government: the whole system must be suspended until a functioning version is developed. In December, the government introduced the EKAER system in a martial law, did not negotiate with professional organisations, carriers, the producers concerned, importers, anyone. The Fidesz government has already done a lot of damage, apparently, with a hasty and unplanned set of rules, and seems to think that it's enough to want something very badly, and then it'll be good to work, prepare and develop it professionally is no longer necessary. Even in December, there were many signs that this should not be done. Most of the fears have been confirmed since then. For several reasons, it has been predicted that the system will cause damage to the national economy, neither the IT nor the professional background is available, any system would require more months, even half a year of preparation and testing. And they also indicated that in many areas the measures are simply unnecessary, i.e. their profits are zero, and their damage is significant. As I said, the fears have been confirmed, there are indications from a number of areas that this system causes a great deal of costs. Experience has shown that an increase in administrative tasks requires a more serious medium-sized company to hire a separate person to do so. Thus, the system clearly reduces competitiveness, especially for small companies. The severity of the fine, which is 40 percent of the value of the goods, and the mandatory security, indicate that the punishment and inability of businesses here does not seem to be a side effect, but seems almost deliberate. Many industries are seriously affected by this system, not because it makes it difficult to cheat VAT, because it does this least, but it increases administration extremely, which is an unbearable burden especially for small businesses. This system is anti-business. I would like to read only one opinion from a person concerned:. Unsolvable burdens and probably inescapable punishments for us, while the simply arranged, large-scale and actually simple pattern of goods will pass undetected and stand the test of control. I'm pretty desperate. And what we cannot imagine is that there will be goods with intermediate services, where we depend on the number of other EKAERs, where because of others, we small ones will just swallow the penalties. The system causes a lot of damage in the pharmaceutical industry, as well as in the pharmaceutical trade. If the system remains after 1 March, it can cause serious supply disruptions, while the medicines are strictly controlled anyway, and their VAT is only 5 percent, i.e. tax avoidance in this area. The biggest chaos is caused by the system in international transport, especially by the delays of deliveries in companies working in. just in time, the fact that foreign partners do not understand what needs to be completed, and who needs to be delivered. As far as agriculture is concerned. According to the Hungarian Association of Agria - Young Farmers, the system is unthinkable, unprepared, and does not take into account the specific characteristics of agricultural production, trade and trade, it is feared that this will lead, among other things, to the harassment and punishment of local food producers. But the costs of the market producers also go up. The negative environmental impact of the system is also significant. Because of a single doubtful registration, the whole shipment is held back by the NAV, each small batch will be transported separately, thereby increasing pollution, fuel consumption and traffic on the road. The EKAER system introduced therefore causes serious problems in almost all parts of the economy affected by transport. In view of this, although it is only a sideline, it is absurd and grotesque that in some counties the Chambers of Entrepreneurs, which, of course, collect the compulsory membership fee, but do not represent the interests of entrepreneurs, began to rush and survey the effects in January after the introduction of the system. They didn't do anything in advance. As far as the concrete measures of the bill before us are concerned, they are both vague and inadequate. The Hungarian Logistics, Procurement and Inventory Society carried out a survey involving more than 330 companies, and the result was that companies, especially large companies operating complex logistics systems, would need to be properly prepared for another 2-6 months. And if, under the authority of law, the Ministry changes the system again, it would take even more time. Possibly Other Politics, however, not only wants to give criticism, but also to come up with solutions other than, of course, well-known systems, such as the reduction of VAT, because Hungarian VAT, right, is a world champion; this could be the case for the introduction of reverse VAT or the control of the tax authority. This includes identifying the causes and persons responsible for previous inaction. The NAV would have had the means to perform before, but for some reason, it didn't. However, in addition to these classic methods that we are well aware of, there would also be an opportunity - and this is innovative, although certainly not a newly invented system, or a system that is used in many countries, such as various software solutions. With the help of a British software, they successfully filter out VAT fraud networks in Slovakia by comparing the ownership of export-import data and companies. In just six months, tax revenues in Slovakia have increased by HUF 150 billion. It wouldn't take much time to develop such a software, given the Hungarian expert base. And then we would not have to punish the half-Hungarian economy, torment it, drive it into despair with meaningless bureaucracy. The current proposal on the part of the government is just a solution to the need, a fire-fighting attempt at best. However, the LMP advises: to suspend the operation of the system, to conduct consultations properly, to take the views of the partners seriously and to initiate the system only if all critical questions have been answered or if they are sure that there is no better and less costly solution. You're gonna find a lot of these if you look around. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. A rare applause in the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-18-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As no independent Members have indicated their intention to speak, no one has applied in writing for a speech, and now we are going to hear speeches from non-notified representatives. Further speeches may be made within the remaining timeframe. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-18-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The debate that has taken place so far has made it clear to me that this otherwise small-scale law will be quite widespread, and I must say that it is certainly an important echo. The debate was held in the usual manner, with political arguments and professional arguments, all of which belong here in Parliament. It is a bigger problem, and I would like to say this in a prerogative that we are having this debate in a tight circle of friends. [[10.40]] Once again, I must say, ceterum censeo est, that - in Hungary, if I count correctly, there are five public channels in place - I would suggest that, at times, it would be a good thing for the parliament to attend certain sporting events, otherwise it could improve our appreciation, because this debate, which has been held here in Parliament so far, could have been said in any European Parliament, was neither harsher nor weaker. It was as professional as what you can hear in a Swedish, Dutch or any European country, you can listen to it. I would also like to deal briefly with the professional part, because I think that is the point. There has been an interest in certain VAT matters around the world, certain VAT matters, that is indisputable, and therefore an answer has to be given. Is the answer the government has chosen right? Is the answer that the government has now submitted to Parliament correct and complete? I believe that the path you have taken is right within the limits of the possibilities. Why do I say that? After all, the fundamental debate - and this is also a legal debate - is whether everything should be regulated by law, or whether it is right to give room for a response that clearly appears in the world of regulations. After all, the opposition, not entirely unfoundedly, objects to the fact that it may be too late to respond to a form of VAT fraud, one version or another. But the regulations to which the draft law refers are used to give these quick answers, and which may be suitable for quick answers, and with these quick answers we can guide in the right direction the otherwise not very favourable situation that may appear in the world of VAT at this time. It should be clearly noted that tax fraud has been present since the world began, along with tax regulations. They exist independently of governments and will continue to exist in the future. The question is to what extent. And the question is whether we are doing everything we can to ensure that these VAT frauds do not prevail, but are reduced to the narrowest possible circle. I believe that the law is taking the right step in this, and that is precisely the right step to shift the responsibility - which must also be said - towards the government. The regulations that will be adopted on the basis of this law are clearly not Parliament's primary responsibility, but the government's primary responsibility. But since there has been a responsible government in Hungary, the responsible government must bear this responsibility. Therefore, to object to the government taking the opportunity to continue to look for ways and ways, in terms of detailed rules, to curb VAT fraud, I am convinced that it is not the right direction. Last but not least, I would like to say that it is also important to see that all steps to reduce tax fraud are, unfortunately, also increasing administrative burdens. It's simply inevitable. If I want more control, there will be more administrative burdens. However, I must say that these burdens are proportionate to the results achieved, and therefore, if this proportionality is maintained, such an increase in burdens should be acceptable and acceptable. It is right to object if this burden already interferes with his operation if he makes the continuation of his operation doubtful. But it's not about that. Such an observation or such an objection has not been made. The political excuses that try to do so have actually tried, in fact, to lead the matter of VAT fraud back somewhere to the current government, not only unwarranted and unfair. It is quite clear that the world of VAT fraud has not developed in the last few years, but unfortunately - and I share the opinion of one of the speakers - has developed over a long period of time and decades; since there has been VAT in Hungary, new and new methods have been used to circumvent VAT and try to circumvent VAT in some way. I must say, this was clearly the case, and I dare say, in the sense that the intention will remain in certain circles and will point towards VAT fraud. The government must therefore seize the most powerful instruments in this regard, and these instruments will be decisively in government bodies in the coming time. Therefore, I believe that the time to come is, among other things, the kind of regulations that will appear and which will complete the current law, in what direction they will point, in what weight they will appear, what they will mean. I have one last word to say. There are undoubtedly some concerns about agriculture, since that is not the last thing I asked for. There is no doubt that it is always the most difficult in agriculture to bear the administrative burden, because it is there that the most untrained and I say this with no hurtful intention, far from my own, but the least prepared, the tax performance, especially the non-taxable layer, which is happy to be able to do its own work, is glad to be able to earn its daily bread, and on this basis obviously tries to get to the market in such a way that it is the shortest way to get to the market, trying to ensure that market access is at the same time as possible to ensure its own survival. I think that we need to be very, very careful here, and here we need to be interested not only in the wallet that is now named here, but also in the wallet that should represent those interested in agriculture - because that is what the role of the FM is about - to be able to appear when the story is about where the administration appears. I have seen painfully - by my age I am no longer in the company of electronic devices and electronic gadgets - how difficult it is for people of my age, not for people of my age, much younger ones, to find out in this world. So our job - and it is the job of all of us - is to help those in this world who need to be able to live, to stay. This is the opportunity to live, the opportunity to live, this is the central issue, and what the responsible government must not forget for a moment; as it has never done before, I believe that this will be one of the main orientations next. If this is the way the law is going to work, it can be supported with a good heart. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Gőgös, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-02-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This parliamentary debate on the EKAER is very topical, as it seems to be another test law that failed. We made it clear when, wrapped in a salad, the rules of this came out that this would not be good. The fact that the government chooses to do so is that it does not say anything in this bill, but asks the authority to tidy up in 12 days in what it could not do in a month and a half, which is quite exciting. My fellow Members, yesterday it was decided that there would be a meeting every two weeks, obviously seriously undermining the rights of the opposition, the role of parliamentary control, and then the regulation-based governance would appear in this law immediately. It's about the Presidential Council's decree. I think that putting such a large circle of legislation and such a broad mass into a ministerial decree is simply impertinent, even if I know that the situation with this EKAER at present is that there is something different in the current law, there is a different implementing regulation, and there is a completely different one on the NAV website. Now, that's what we're dealing with right now. It also follows that, at the moment, I see that - although there is no punishment now, but the implementation is going on - the NAV itself is the legislator, so he decides, he tells it in the forums where I was, there were more, I understand, Mr President was that no matter what is in the law, this will still be the case. Imagine the situation where they were looking for me around Christmas, that it would be nice to talk about it, because they have no idea what's going to happen here; there is basically a vegetable circle there. On January 5, 200 producers were waiting because they simply didn't know what to do with all of this, because they collected all the relevant descriptions that existed, which appeared anywhere, either on the NAV or on the government portal itself, or on the information provided by VM or FM, but were not adapted. It's a circle, it's agrarian. It can also be seen that the story has obviously knocked out the fuse at the big car companies, where basically the warehouses are the trucks, and now the picture of what you have been discussing, let us say, Mrs Merkel in Hungary; one thing is for sure, because it will be simplified very suddenly - I see, at least, as we hear - in this type of less risky case, this is the EKAER. [[10.50]] I would like to suggest that there will not be enough 12 days for this, Mr. Secretary of State, to put this in order. Yesterday, we discussed with Minister Varga why I did not get an answer to 15 specific questions - I only asked 15 specific questions, but I think President James could list more about the meetings where he was with NAV, up to a thousand - which there is no answer to. I got a meaningless answer to that by signing Sándor Czomba, which didn't help the producers. I sent them to look at it, that's the government's intention to negotiate and negotiate. It says here that it's a perfect thing, and they're gonna clean this up. First of all, I do not understand if it seems that a system has been stolen - and then I would like to say two sentences about it, because the administrator, who handed it over to the Ministry in 2011 and to the IRS, claims that CtrlC-CtrlV was roughly the first law based on his description - why didn't they do it the way it was written. For example, why didn't they do it so that the EKAER number would follow the goods? Why does it stop after 15 days at the first point of sale when everyone knows exactly the logic of Hungarian VAT fraud? The logic of Hungarian VAT fraud is at least three, four or five companies, and VAT disappears among them that at least twice in UHT milk VAT is claimed for different companies that have disappeared. That's what we should be talking about, Mr. Secretary. But if you don't know that, there's a big problem. Then this government cannot be trusted, let alone EKAER, anything, because this is a clear topic of speech and obvious in Hungary. In fact, I'm also saying, Mr. Secretary, the other day was a huge announcement that you had a truckload of French potatoes whose papers were not in order. You don't need an EKAER for that, Mr. Secretary of State. The Hungarian potato producers gave the Ministry the name and parameters of the V. district company who imported the potatoes in black. All you have to do is go over there and clean up. You have to catch the crooks, but not like this. Moreover, I do not see a sane explanation as to why the carrier should apply for an EKAER number for imports, not for the importer. Why is the importer not responsible for making clear what he wants to bring in and how? Why is that necessary? Secondly, we see how many hundreds of millions of cars are standing in front of certain wholesale companies or retail networks. It's the only way that there's a terrible amount of black goods. VAT fraud creates a huge amount of black goods, which should be caught precisely between wholesale warehouses and small supermarkets, as well as in small supermarkets with black cash machines, and not with EKAER; but by going to where one day a trading partner in Győr County will be arrested for VAT fraud of 2 billion, and the next day the biggest store of the same company, along with all the cash registers, will be enough. And I don't get an answer to where this investigation is going. You're very quick and often presenting the arrest of petty criminals, but you don't want to catch the big ones, Mr. Secretary of State. 'Cause if they wanted to hold him, they wouldn't be running a system like this. There are no answers to the questions about what agricultural producers are actually doing. My fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, pointed out that this is a very special sector. But I can't help it if even the minister doesn't understand, and a countryman doesn't understand that if a small farmer immediately sells the grain from the board to the mill, he can't ask for an EKAER number, because he doesn't know what the weight of what he's taking is, he has no idea what the water content is, he has no idea what the contents are and how much money he's going to get, Mr. Secretary of State. I believe that there is an intention to regulate this in the regulation, but to me, the Minister was still talking about transporting it to his own warehouse. What if someone produces in integration, so that the product doesn't belong to him in the first place, but he stays in his warehouse? Then what are you going to do with it? What if the trader goes to the site and buys there? Who wants the EKAER number and where to report it? These are the questions I asked, fifteen. But you couldn't bet fifteen. You could bet 500. I didn't get any answers in a month and a half! They didn't come to the subcommittee meeting where we discussed these issues specifically with FM. In English: they don't give a damn about people's heads, and that's a big problem. I think that if you want to make a decree in two weeks on a law that has failed in a month and a half, there will be another huge conflict, Mr. Secretary of State. They're not gonna be able to do it right, because they're still not willing to take note of special things. By the way, I can see that there are no new people here. The same NAV guys are checking up on the EKAER. They're doing exactly the same thing as the inner depth groups. But I don't think that's the system you need. I'm asking you to sit down with the man who made a proper software, try to talk to him about what he would do differently, because learning from the right is not a problem. And don't tell me that this has nothing to do with the system where your description is literally the same as what I saw in his patent. I think that would be the minimum, because I'm sure it could be improved. Secondly, it has already been said today that this is not the solution for basic foods. A certain range of basic foods - not all of them, because VAT fraud affects a relatively small circle - are constantly indicated, which spin very quickly and in large quantities. This is obviously not yet in VAT of 5%, because the goat and beef were put in there, which is unique in number of ears, no one ever cheated on VAT, but it was possible to hold 60 press conferences because of what this brilliant government did to classify half the sheep and half the goat into five percent VAT. Mr. Secretary, buy me half a sheep or half a goat in the store. You don't get it anywhere because it's not on the market. But it's also very rare to have a quarter of beef that's also loaded. We'd look good on the market with a quarter of beef on our backs. So the problem is they're touching what they're not supposed to. 'Cause there's no point in doing it, obviously it's just paint. But they won't be able to do it this way, because there's no time. What kind of social dialogue is it that you want to have in two weeks? I'm asking you what kind of social dialogue it's gonna be when you've never spoken to anyone before. I was in four producer circles, but I understand that the Chamber and Magos were in a lot of places, but they didn't dare talk about the atmosphere there. In most places, of course, they said it was unnecessary to leave because they didn't hear anything because three people said three things. Well, the problem with this system is that they've made a mistake in this country, which you can see is that it's not gonna end well. I wouldn't do anything to change this into a decree, to exempt the law from messing with this. We'd be happy to discuss this, Mr. Secretary. We'd be happy to hear everyone's opinion. But I'm asking that you don't want to solve this in two weeks. There's no way this is gonna work. We've been partners in everything that's pointed to a solution. And we continue to suggest - because there is an awful lot of money, it seems that there is money for everything, they are distributing everything from the swimming pool to everything, they are throwing billions, which is very important, of course - that they should make around 100 billion in the food circle where VAT is actually rampant, and perhaps even help to increase the consumption of poorer layers, they will also make the move towards 5% VAT. Believe me, there's a fraction of the problem. Get to the point where we roll what's round, which is square, and we'll take that, Mr. Secretary of State. Because that's certainly not the case in this system. And I ask you to take seriously those professionals who, believe me, are more involved in these things than the Ministry's apparatus. Because it's amazing that they want to make an electronic announcement at 200 kilos of merchandise, say, from a farm that doesn't have electricity or internet access. They should be answered more carefully, and we should consider what to do with this. I know, and they said that selling to the big house wasn't. Yeah, but only for the compensatory premium farmers, because there's already an explanation for that. And what about the others, the one who's a caddy farmer or a small farmer, like all the young farmers? It is no wonder that Agria was so opposed to this legislation, since all the young farmers' applications were conditional on being an agricultural entrepreneur. They're already in business, Mr. Secretary. After their own transport and sales, they should all make declarations. And they're not the VAT-cheaters, they're the circle that doesn't apply to, who takes the goods, bananas and oranges to the small market with an initial farmer's certificate. So the problem with that is they're not reaching where they're supposed to be again, and they're not hitting where they're supposed to be. I'm asking you to withdraw this bill and the entire law that deals with the EKAER. You can see from the test run that didn't work. Make one that's good, but first, lower your VAT. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-18-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the further speeches by your representatives. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz Group. [[11.00]]
u2015-02-18-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Many comments were made. I would like to highlight one thing most and, with respect, to Mr Secretary of State. There are opinions that the government has not agreed on this matter. Dear Secretary of State, I sent you an e-mail, and I'd like to draw your attention to it. Not a small company, but a company in top 50, which employs more than 5,000 people, said in relation to excessive administrative burdens that perhaps one person should be more employed. This company produces, transports, and with 5,000 people, the EKAER system means more than one person. Were there any negotiations? Secretary of State, I would like to read the last paragraph of this company's letter to the arguments that have been made here and there were no arguments, only hate accusations. Mr. Congressman! I would also like to note that we thanked the Regional Taxation and Customs Directorate-General of the NAV for the EKAER system in Northern Great Plains, who has already taught and prepared us, asked our opinion, gave us explanations, and the NAV's Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Administration of Customs and Finance, which answers questions on a daily basis, greatly facilitates our work. Moreover, several companies have indicated that it is comforting for them that we have now come to the point that the NAV is not only punishing us, but also supporting us on new things. We ask the honourable Member to send our comments to the Ministry. That's what I did. Mr. Secretary. I'd like to ask you to have the opinion of the director of a Top 50 high-ranking company that is far more reassuring to you than the accusations that have been made here. Just a few things, if you will, in this House. Mr Szilágyi pointed out that the task of the political elite is to eliminate economic crimes. Well, Congressman, isn't that exactly what this proposal is about? [[György Szilágyi: No.]] Uniquely in Europe, someone has finally done something to eliminate VAT fraud and economic crimes. Whether it was right or wrong, it could have been better or less, but with a unique ambition and instrument in Europe, the only solution to this is now being found. The MSZP representative says that Hungarian entrepreneurs are rushing their heads. I understand that they do not meet voters in the benches of the MSZP, as they do not have a constituency, because they did not win an election, they only got in on a list. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I do.]] But if you meet your constituents, the carriers, the producers, the leaders of the economic units, my fellow Members, they make criticisms and comments, which they have delivered, we will also get you to the wallet, but everyone will thank you for the fact that something has finally happened with regard to VAT fraud. Because, by the way, the system you've been assisting me with for eight years has boosted the black economy. Because if there were one or two entrepreneurs who were dipping in the black economy, the honest entrepreneurs either went down with him or they were ruined. From agriculture to transport, they express their gratitude and respect for the fact that they do not have to spend sleepless nights when they will be caught with their peers. 'Cause if their partners and everyone's farming clean, they can do the same. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Perhaps Gábor Bellozó was the most brilliant expression when he told this House that there is a good mafia and there is a bad mafia. I don't think there's ever been any such thing as a difference. Perhaps you should consider, fellow Members, that the good or bad mobs in the ranks of the MSZP have already been led away in handcuffs. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then everyone was acquitted.]] So your government members are in handcuffs because they're either good or bad mob, but the mob's circles are in your benches. Dear Congressman Haughty, I would like to draw your attention or remind you that Ócsa wasn't called by producers, but you held an MSZP meeting in Ócsa. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] where he made these accusations. It's just, Your Honour, it's a strange thing to say. Former Secretary of State, you were in position, you were the Secretary of State. What did you do for the sake of VAT fraud? [[Zoltán Grimlock: There wasn't that many.]] Did you work out a similar system? He didn't work out anything. And, Congressman, you're saying that reducing VAT fraud is the only way to cut VAT. Congressman, have you reduced your VAT? Like an election campaign. And then they quickly raised it to 25 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then we took him down to 18.]] Well, Congressman, look in the mirror. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Shut up!]] Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2015-02-18-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully welcome you. We'll get back to work. Member György Szilágyi has the opportunity to speak, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to a few things. Congressman Pócs has just quoted from a company that, as I understand it, is in Top 50. Well, you could've told me, you could've done us the honor of knowing which company we were talking about. I'd like to know. What you're saying here, I don't understand why we're discussing this law now. After all, you said that this company also expressed that the current system is very good. Well, if the current system is very good, then why should it be changed? Because you quoted from a company that says that this system is good, and by the way, who are affected by this system in Hungary, in the vast majority of them, in a very large majority, think that this system is not good and does not serve the purpose that it should be. By the way, this EKAER system can affect virtually all companies, producers, manufacturers and even service providers. You should also be able to say it, and I thank Béla Turi-Kovács for his speech, and once again I feel that every time he speaks to a topic, he really tries to keep a critical eye on things, and he honestly says that if he thinks that this should be changed in any case. So I think it was a completely constructive and reality-based speech. The only thing I don't agree with is your speech. You can also, as you said, govern by decree. Yes, the policy is familiar with regulation governance, but it is usually used by minority governments, not by two thirds of the government in possession of the regulation. After all, there is nothing against you, by the way, that in your two-thirds possession, you can adopt any laws you want. So the regulations that you want to make in two weeks could be put into law in the same way, and then it would be completely clear, and the legal guarantee would be greater. But here comes the question of what could be the solution in this situation. Well, in no case is the solution in this situation to adopt a law in which we give the minister a blank mandate, and then in two weeks' time, so in principle, entrepreneurs should be ready to do so in two weeks' time, with regulations that we don't even know what they're really gonna have, and in two weeks' time, this system should work. For once, I say, like Béla Turi-Kovács, you should appreciate the situation in a realistic way. Even though they have two thirds of them, in their two-thirds possession, they could safely say and say that, indeed, as Béla Turi-Kovács said, or János Pócs said, they tried to do something against VAT fraud, they actually took a course with which we agree that we should start on this path, they invented a system, they invented a law, but unfortunately, at the moment, this law seems to have failed. This system has failed, it's inapplicable. Then there would be only one thing you could do here, and you would say that this system is now suspended. We do not reject, suspend, start a consultation with stakeholders very quickly, we start a consultation with professional organisations very quickly, and not with a ministerial decree, but we will try to submit a law to this House before the Hungarian Parliament as soon as possible, drawing up a system that we believe will work. And as long as you do so, you would like to call and perhaps alert Ildikó Vida to the fact that there are certain tools at the disposal of the NAV at the moment. So work a little and do something to prevent VAT fraud - they could. [[11.10]] So there would be an opportunity for the NAV to take action against VAT fraud at the moment, as I have said, in this EKAER system - and as many have said here - for example, for VAT fraud, this system is not good at the moment, as it is no longer available in third, fourth and fifth companies. So I would like to ask you to reconsider that this proposal should now be withdrawn and the EKAER system suspended. With this bad system, this inapprehensible system, do not burden those who would be affected at the moment, and even the Jobbik Hungary Movement offers the expert background that it has that if you, say, are overwhelmed during the period of government and do not have the appropriate experts, we will also offer you the expert system to work together on a system that can really eliminate or at least make VAT fraud in Hungary very difficult. Sit down, negotiate with the relevant professional organisations, stakeholders, and do not request ministerial decrees, not a mandate from the House of Ministers, but a law that will be good and which contains a system that can really do something about this economic crime. That is what we propose, and we can support this, as I said, not this bill that has been tabled. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-42	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now there are two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös in two minutes, MSZP. Here.
u2015-02-18-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just have a very short reaction to my colleague Pócs's speech. I am very sorry that your constituency only conveys the opinions of large companies and refuses to listen to the opinions of small farmers who were 200 in Ocsa. There was no talk of an MSZP meeting, Congressman, you were very badly informed. But not just there, but in Kalocsa, Debrecen, and I don't want to put it any further, but you'll have to ask me the same question: President James is sitting in here, what they said at Magos. I'm very sad that one of the members of the Agriculture Committee doesn't even bother to at least ask them what's wrong with them. We should read the written question that I asked, in which 15 specific points are listed, not an uprising, not an instigation, but simply specific questions that no one has even been given an answer to, Congressman. Isn't that what you should be representing? - and not the opinions of companies that are apparently helped by the government in some way, who want to express their gratitude. I really hope that public media will only blare what you say, at least your constituents will know what kind of person you are. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-18-44	Another two-minute check-in: Mr.István Happy is the word, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-45	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I have to say, the law is good. I also note this from the fact that the signals I received confirm this, and also from opposition politicians such as Mr Gögös, who sat here as State Secretary, are violently attacking him. This means that we may have touched a sensitive point, as a Slovak mobster recently confessed to how the VAT was cheated during their administration, the trucks went back and forth with goods and no goods, and they were collecting VAT, perhaps even talking about some MSZP connection, but it's not my job to find out. One thing is certain, this will not work because of the EKAER Act. As to why we are changing it now and why we are putting the change in the regulation in the Minister's hands, it is absolutely clear and simple. Because, after nearly two months of testing, we see that it needs to be modified, changed, and we also see that criminal groups who have been living out of VAT fraud are constantly wondering how they can play the system. To give you a quick example, for example, the supply of firewood to Hungary is now taking place in the name of a private individual, as if it were to be brought in by some - not everyone obviously - because there is no EKAER number to be requested. So the Ministry must be prepared to respond to such quickly developed VAT fraud [[That's not typical, is it?]] It is obvious that a ministerial decree can react faster than to amend a law. I think that everyone who wants to do something against VAT fraud and see a clean system, and who wants people to eat healthy food in Hungary, supports the amendment of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-46	Thank you very much. In the two-minute round, another speaker was Mr Szilágyi György, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Happy Congressman, I don't think you understand the point. In the EKAER system, and I have already told you before, in my first speech, the so-called carousel fraud, what happens is that a company buys certain goods, and then distributes this on paper to a second, a third, a fourth or a fifth, and in the EKAER system only the first sale is subject to notification. How, then, would this system be good at the moment so that it can act against VAT fraud in an appropriate way? Secretary of State, isn't that right? [[András Tállai: No.]] 'Cause if you don't, talk to him, tell me if you don't. [[András Tállai: That's not true.]] If you don't think that's what's happening right now, then you should talk to him, tell him, press the button and tell him. That's the point. This system - that should be admitted - has failed as it is. This system isn't good. That's why you want to change it now. Well, change it, but you're not gonna want to change it with government orders, you're not gonna ask for a Bianko warrant, you're gonna put in a normal law that's in law, a normal system, a functioning system. Bring this over here. To do that, of course, I know we should conduct those discussions, listen to people who might say that your idea may not be right. We should pay attention to the views of those affected and create them. But as long as you believe that the Philosopher's Stone is only with you, and you're authorized to do so by Bianko, it won't work, it will remain the same. But I'll tell you one more time: look it up, or Mr. Secretary of State will deny it if that's not the case. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-48	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. Here.
u2015-02-18-49	Thank you for the floor. I would like to make an observation, although it is not closely linked to the give-and-takes here, but I think it is important that it be said. It has been said on several sides that there is a problem with the sudden introduction of the system, the lack of control, the lack of long coordination. This is very good in the IT system. Logistics have collected an entire collection of how useless this system is, this IT system. I'd just like to give you a few examples of this. For example, if you want to enter a license plate, you have to roll a long list and only find Hungary in the 256th place after Madagascar. This is how many times you can throw out a different error code and start over with a long process of recording people. Or a series of functions that are not inoperative is that it is not possible to upload xml, there is no distinction between the O letter and 0 in the system, which can be regarded as a fairly significant problem, automatically generated numbers come with their own data content, and the fact that there is an insurmountable amount of information, unfiltered information available to users. This is all a problem that emerged because obviously programming had to happen relatively quickly, the test phase was cancelled, and we see the disadvantage of this in a new way, and users see it. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the same two-minute circle, I can only speak to one representative per faction. Dear Parliament, At the same time, before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a matter of sitting. May I have your attention, please? Vice-President István Jakab wishes to speak in the current debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, he shall be allowed to hold the meeting at a further stage of the debate or during the decision only if the Parliament agrees. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Jakab will be able to hold the meeting during the hearing of the motion, in the decision and in the future. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. In this sense, as Mr Vice-President has asked to speak as a Member, I give the opportunity to speak to Vice-President István Jakab, the representative of Fidesz. You have the floor, please.
u2015-02-18-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked him to speak to me, but that's not the only reason I asked him to speak. I asked for the floor because, knowing the problem, knowing the circle affected by this change, I believe that in their name and representation, and perhaps in order to share some of the experience I have had, I have decided in any case that I must speak and state my arguments. [[11.20]] I would add that it was not in a forum, as my fellow Member Gögös has indicated, that we have met, yes, a number of thousands of people in several forums, and I have also to say that we have been working with the leaders, experts and experts of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy in the country. I also do not hide that with the experts of the NAV, I do not hide the fact that we met with the representatives of the wallet, in cooperation with the road inspection experts, evaluated, with representatives of farmers, representatives of transport companies and representatives of merchant companies - and I would like to underline this - and there was a substantial debate. I want to make something clear. The question is: is it justified to bring order to the market? Is it appropriate to establish a clear, clear and transparent system for the protection of producers, fair producers and fair traders? I think that there is no man in this Chamber who denies this. If that's true, then obviously the next step will come to how, for what's sake. I do not wish to open a political debate on this, and I want to approach it from a professional point of view. I think I have some experience up my sleeve. Let's stick to the experience and the reason why. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the practice so far and we know precisely - I apologise to honest traders now, but we know precisely - the circle that specializes in law-making, bypassing the laws, disrupting the market and causing chaos on the markets can be felt. One of these circles is bringing goods into the country almost unannounced as EU Member States. I give you a specific example: the buyer comes for the Hungarian grain, but not with an empty truck, my fellow Members, but with potatoes; and this potato ends up in the Hungarian wholesale market, this potato ends up along the highways, and I could name it. In fact, it's in certain chains. Do we need to change that or not? - here's the question. Yeah. My fellow Member Ikotity is no longer here, he says that only why we should not leave this to the importers. Please respectfully, we do not leave it to them because they have worked out the perfect way to bring goods into the country on the basis of EU legislation that it is impossible to find the buyer of the goods. So the system is handling this problem. We know very well about our domestic affairs: the meat trade, for example, that as long as there is no threat of a fraud paying a 50-fold fine if he gets caught and doesn't comply with it, please respectfully, he will. Now, there's a problem, they say, with the system running in a test run. Yes, my fellow Members, I have also initiated this to extend a month, because we need the test facility to get to know people, understand them, and feel that it is for them. Allow me to make a comment here on the basis of a specific example: the farmer sold his grain and indicated that the documents were here, so I ask you to issue the invoice. Half an hour later, they told him, "Yeah, if it goes into the account, it's $5,000 a tonne cheaper. Dear fellow Members, This is the reality, from which we must start, and here we must find a way to control the market in such a way that it is the smallest additional burden for people. I would like to point out that I have spoken to thousands of people in this case, and they have made it clear that we expect a system that we can fulfil, and that is a condition that applies to everyone at the same time. People know exactly what the mass of goods spilling from abroad, which came in largely uncontrollably through fraudsters, we can check that no distinction can be made here, and the registration at home must also be made, as in the case of goods coming in from abroad. So we have a great responsibility, the villager network of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy is prepared, and the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy has prepared the software that helps all farmers and farmers to ask for an EKAER number. Questions should only be indicated "yes" or "no" in connection with the software, it is on the Internet, it is available, it practically helps. And it will also help when it is established that you should ask for an EKAER number on what to do next. So it is not true that there is no help for farmers; dear fellow Members, there is help, there is partnership. And the fact that this regulation is being regulated, my fellow Members have made it very clear that it is simply because of the ability of skilled fraudsters to find more ways, so to speak, and your biggest problem would be that we have just passed the law, why we need to bring the law back to Parliament again. [[Zoltán Grimlock: This law is completely empty, there is nothing in it.]] With all due respect, yes, this legislation obviously needs to be refined, obviously there is still a lot of practical experience in the finalization of the regulation, but I would like to conclude by saying that farmers did not rebel in the forums. In the forums, it was accessible everywhere, and the farmers named it, obviously they come to me at the end of the forum, so that, you know, the one who commented, he's the biggest fraud in the wholesale market, he's the one who's pissing off the farmers. Colleagues, let us not get involved in this, but let us try together to find a way in which we can help and be partners in the case of the Hungarian fair producer circle, a fair trader's circle, decent transport companies and a system that will stabilise their situation and bring order to the market. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-52	Thank you very much. It's up to Congressman Gábor Harangozó, MSZP. Here.
u2015-02-18-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You know, fellow Members, at first I wanted to press for two minutes after Béla Turi-Kovács's speech I would now say that the attitude and speech of my fellow Members Turi-Kovács and James was particularly pleasing to me, and I would like to ask them to make these arguments, as well as the argument of Béla Turi-Kovács that this was a major debate, and that such a major debate should not only be heard here, now in this plenary, but also in a much wider context, so please tell us in your group meeting as well. Because, you know, here's what happened: seeing that this whole EKAER system doesn't work in mid-January and that it causes serious problems for the economic operators, we convened a monitoring subcommittee meeting on 20 January, ten days before the original law made this system sharp and they started punishing the economic operators who couldn't meet the requirements of the undeveloped law. The following thing happened: the representatives of Fidesz did not come to this subcommittee meeting, so the agenda could not be adopted. After the agenda could not be adopted, neither representatives of the economic wallet nor the agricultural portfolio were obliged to be present and to state their position, to help and to clarify the situation. [[11.30]] The farming portfolio did this, but they couldn't tell us what would make it work, and they just shared our concerns and waited for the economic wallet to give us some answers. After a few phone calls were made, the representative of the economic wallet informed him that his bosses had instructed him to leave the room and not to speak to the representatives there, so that there was no formal meeting. So they weren't even willing to share the information with us, obviously because it wasn't invented, yet this system hasn't been invented. So if there is a lack of dialogue and professional dialogue, let us say, when we set up a meeting specifically for this, we have to come there and, in the interests of farmers, these meetings should not be sabotaged, but should be fairly told what the ideas are, listening to what the suggestions are, what the problems are, and finding a fair answer to them. But since this is not the case, I would like to repeat to my fellow Member Pócs what I said at the beginning, because he seems to have misunderstood: I was not talking about a good mob and a bad mob, but I said that because your government resembles a bad mob, Hungary is not even a country of criminals. It is therefore necessary not to create laws that regard every economic operator as a criminal, but to prevent and stop crime in particular. This thing you put on the table doesn't stop VAT fraud. All opposition representatives have said that everyone knows that, by the way, you know that the system is not suitable for stopping VAT fraud, so please suspend this system and submit a system that is suitable for stopping VAT fraud. And by the way, in the food industry, VAT must be reduced, because then there will be no fraud and even economic operators will benefit. I have one more comment. My colleague Szilágyi told me that Vida Ildiko should be consulted on ordering the NAV to live with what they have and to hold the VAT cheats. All I would like to add to that is that Ildikó Vida should not be denied anything other than resigning because whoever is involved in such matters should not lead the IPEH. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-18-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're back in a two-minute circle. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I fully agree with István Jakab as he raised the problem of VAT fraud. We agree that we should do something about this, but you have said a key phrase, which is exactly what we are trying to fight at the moment and raise our voice. You said that this should apply equally to everyone. This is precisely the item against which we are speaking in the current legislative amendment proposal. What does that say? It is stated that we are talking about products classified as risky by a ministerial decree, which we do not yet know what they will be, so he can determine. And most importantly, [[András Tállai: He doesn't even know what he's saying!]] "Secretary of State, I have asked you to press for two minutes, and you have the opportunity to comment on the debate, and not to say anything," said the other Secretary of State, "that you may decide, for example, not to assume you, but, say, you go to the Minister and say that I have a good friend, that we have to exempt him from this, because it says that the rules on the specific obligation and exemption from it are laid down by a ministerial decree issued for the implementation of the law. Well, that's exactly how they can be more equal than equals. Which I still don't agree with, because you're saying that we need a ministerial decree because it's faster. Well, gentlemen, is this faster, Mr. Secretary? This amendment will now be passed through Parliament in a week. They're gonna double-cross a law amendment in Parliament in a week because we're doing it in an exceptional procedure. The ministerial decree, if you comply with the legal regulations normally, should be at least three weeks. At least three weeks! So what's the faster solution? In your two-thirds possession, whatever you've been through in a week, you can change laws! If a ministerial decree is normally prepared, it's three weeks if they comply with all the legal requirements. So which one's faster? Making normal laws and enforcing those laws in this country is the most normal and the best solution. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-56	Thank you very much, and thank you for your help with the meeting; I can handle it alone, so I can speak without this advice. For example, I now give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab, the representative of Fidesz, as a two-minute requester. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not taking the two minutes, I'm just reaching out to him, and that's why I want to react. My colleague György Szilágyi was probably not in the room, or he probably didn't hear exactly when I said very clearly that, yes, it applies equally to everyone, but it is necessary and justified to regulate the regulation because the specialised criminals find new methods on a regular basis, and the law obviously cannot be amended weekly or monthly. And the other thing is that the minister is a member of the government, so it is obvious that appropriate consultations are also taking place within the government. I note quietly that someone has indicated why we are not discussing this at a group meeting: my fellow Member, we do not wish to bring the Group meeting to Parliament. The depth of our discussion of professional issues, I think, should be the internal issue of each faction. For my part, I believe that it does apply equally to a fair trader, a fair producer, a fair carrier, and to every single frauder, and I think it is in the interests of all of us. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-18-58	Thank you very much. Mr. Gábor Bellozó is coming, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, although you have two minutes' notice, you only have 30 seconds, so give us your opinion in 30 minutes.
u2015-02-18-59	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say to Congressman James that I have drawn your attention to the fact that, at the Group meeting, the members of the government should be convinced that laws should be brought here on the basis of normal social coordination, not to introduce something, and then to say that we will correct it if it does not work well. Another sentence: I did not hear anything in the debate that would explain why business secrets should be collected from honest entrepreneurs, if not to be abused. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-60	Thank you very much. Well, honourable Members and Members, I would like to ask you if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is now closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to reply. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here.
u2015-02-18-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fundamental question is, in my opinion, whether we are able to take appropriate action against VAT fraudsters, whether it can take appropriate action, whether the government or Parliament can decide to whiten the economy. Allow me to start by saying that the current government has taken very serious steps to ensure that this happens, as the introduction of online cash registers, which also trigger a great debate, which also has not been supported by opposition parties, yet there are nearly 190 thousand online cash registers in Hungary. I'd like to give you your results. VAT revenue from retail and wholesale trade in 2014 is 14 percent higher than in 2013. This meant HUF 227 billion in VAT surplus. I believe that this debate is over. The introduction of online cash registers was so effective that other countries are interested in how Hungary did this. There were discussions about the introduction, of course, and the rest. The government will continue to develop this system. This is a much bigger decision indeed, the introduction of the EKAER system, indeed it is unique in Europe, in the European Union, and I am sure that the result will be that Hungary, the Hungarian government, will be honoured by other countries, how it was able to introduce it, obviously if its results are seen. [[11.40]] The views and attitudes of opposition parties are very interesting. One day in front of the agenda, they talk about a thousand billion-dollar VAT shortage in the budget, they talk about VAT fraud, corruption, government and others, and when they take steps, the Hungarian government takes very serious steps to stop and eliminate this, and then they stand up and say that this is absurd, this is bureaucratic, this is anarchic, it destroys the Hungarian entrepreneurial system, so businesses leave Hungary, that this is outrageous, and that this is not necessary. It should be decided which side they are on: either on the side that they are helping to eliminate the VAT fraud system and thus to increase VAT revenues, or on the other side, which is, of course, very popular, because obviously, those who are affected by this are true, this means extra energy, resources, administration to those affected, but not nearly as much as what has been said here, because we have been outside a number of companies, and we have asked what this means. I would add that the fundamental problem was not how many new employees, or the relocation of existing employees, but simply to simplify and speed up the system, and not to address this issue. The other debate: Jobbik's problem is why this will be regulated by a ministerial decree. I believe that part of the Hungarian legal system is that a member of the government, the minister responsible for specific tasks, should form a decree. A ministerial decree is, from a legal point of view, almost the same as a law, since it defines tasks, obligations and sanctions. From this point of view, who has to implement it, it does not matter whether it is required by law or by a ministerial decree. So on this point, I can say that, since Jobbik has nothing to say about the EKAER, it has initiated a formal debate against the Ministerial Regulation, which I am listening to, but I do not understand it very well. There are two other reasons why the EKAER number should be requested only on entry into the first VAT system and on delivery. This is a legitimate point, and the Ministry is considering this, and we are thinking about extending this part of the ministerial regulation, so I accept it in a professional sense, and so has Mr Haughty raised it, that is a legitimate point, and I think that we should consider it in relation to our original position. I cannot agree with the fear, which is a political approach, of the exemptions that the Ministerial Regulation will introduce. We really have to wait for the regulation, the regulation cannot be brought before Parliament, but basically activities, essentially state companies, the same thing that was included in the bill itself, and based on experience, this will be extended. Therefore, it is clear that for example, the transport of excise goods does not require an EKAER number in the future, and this will be further expanded. The other exemption is neither that a person makes an application that he does not want to request an EKAER number, but that he must comply with certain conditions and that he will only apply for that exemption if the conditions laid down exist. I would add that, moreover, this will not be decided by the Minister, but by the county tax authority in question, whether it is justified or not, on the basis of the conditions laid down in the regulation. Unfortunately, Congressman Haughty has left, but I must say I do not understand many questions. He is the man of agriculture and his leader, and I just don't understand why he is against the EKAER system. The other day, I read a statement from a poultry processing company who said: they are eager to see this EKAER system work in real life, because they find that it had to be delivered to places in the month of February where it has never been before, and they assume that all this is because they have ordered the goods, the poultry, from a place where, interestingly, they no longer belong to the introduction of this system. So he already dared to say that this is a clear clean-up of the Hungarian market and that it is for the benefit of Hungarian local businesses. This will only have a secondary effect on the EKAER system, by the way. And there is no need to fear the excessive administration that this will entail for farmers. Don't tell me that at midnight or 4:00 a.m., a car leaves with agricultural products, and the owner doesn't know how many pounds or what's on that car! Don't you know how much that's worth and how much money you're gonna get? If someone knows that, and you need to know that, because otherwise he's not there; so someone else is doing it, they don't even know how much and what product they're transporting, otherwise, which is his property? If you know that, then it's just one more step to be able to comply with this system, which, by the way, will be in your own interest. I believe that the comments on the software are justified, as the LMP has said, and that this should be simplified, and that the Ministerial Regulation will try to deal with them as a whole. It is not true that we have not consulted with the actors, that we have been doing nothing for two months, that everyone has taken all the comments into account, and with the best of intentions. By the way, yesterday, the Secretary-General of the Logistics Association acknowledged this fact that the Ministry was indeed very correct in trying to incorporate the comments into this regulation. What I can tell you is that the players in the economy, who have nothing to fear for, have nothing to hide, are waiting for this system to work in real life, and even if they have to, they will sacrifice, as I said, additional resources. The Ministry, the Minister, is ready to process the comments that will continue to come and are constantly incorporated into the Ministerial Regulation. I believe that it is in the common interest of all of us that this system should start and work, because this will mean the cleansing and whitening of the Hungarian economy, which, regardless of which side we are sitting on, must be of common interest to all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-18-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows that the draft law relating to consumer lending contracts by financial institutions and amending other private law laws will be consolidated in an exceptional procedure. The submission is T/3117. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee has not submitted a summary amendment, its summary report T/3117/2. You can get to know him on the network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Mr Répássy, Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the bill. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-02-18-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As is well known to you, according to the Law on the Settlement of Certain Issues of the Curia's Decision on Consumer Credit Contracts, known as the Unity of Rights Act, their unfairness had to be assumed in respect of contractual clauses allowing for a unilateral increase in interest, an increase in costs and a raise in fees to become part of consumer loan contracts. At the same time, the legal unit law allowed financial institutions to sue the Hungarian State for the annulment of this presumption, i.e. they were given the opportunity to prove the fairness of the contractual clauses concerned. However, in respect of the relevant contractual clauses of the general contractual terms published or amended after 26 November 2010, there is no presumption of unfairness contrary to the above-mentioned main rule of the Unity Act. [[11.50]] In these cases, the National Bank of Hungary may examine whether the terms of financial institutions are found unfair, and if certain clauses are found unfair, it is he who may bring a lawsuit in the public interest. The primary objective of the bill we are discussing is to complement the 2014 XL. the rules of law, commonly referred to as the Accounting Act, relating to the actions brought by that action in the public interest. The bill also clarifies the provisions of the consumer loan agreements of financial institutions and other private law laws in order to facilitate their application on the basis of legal feedback. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say a few words, without the need for completeness, about what kind of changes are included in the amendments contained in the bill. The rules supplementing the settlement law specify in detail the content and form of the information provided by the financial institution in connection with the contractual clauses concerned, on the basis of the request of the Hungarian National Bank, that the Hungarian National Bank should be able to prepare an application with appropriate content if necessary. The amendment allows the Hungarian National Bank to submit its application by 30 April 2015 at the latest instead of 28 February 2015, in order to be able to submit its application to the Hungarian National Bank on the basis of detailed information. In addition, the bill introduces a further procedural rule, which simplifies the procedural mechanism, as well as a more effective enforcement of the need for action in relation to actions brought by a public interest action. For example, the bill allows financial institutions to undertake a declaration in the authentic instrument to settle with consumers of all or specific categories of contracts covered by the regulation in accordance with the rules of the Accounting Act. In this case, no action of general interest shall be brought and the financial institution shall be partially or totally exempt from the obligation to provide information. The bill provides an opportunity for the Hungarian National Bank to enforce its demand for the relevant consumer loan contracts after 30 April 2015 in specific cases. This may take place if, in any proceedings initiated until 31 December 2016, you notice that the reporting of the financial institution was incomplete or untrue in some of its parts. In this case, if the public interest suit is still pending, it is possible to change the action, and if it is final, there is room for revision, while if the case has not been brought before, it is possible to bring proceedings. The relevant legislation is intended to ensure that there is a real possibility of enforcement of claims for all legitimate consumer needs. The bill amends on several points the Law on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code, commonly known as the Law of Ptké. the provisions of this Regulation. Ptké entered into force on 15 March 2014. amended on the basis of the enforcement comments raised during the application of the transitional rules related to the Ptk. for nearly one year. For example, the Ptk. Transitional provisions relating to the Third Paper on legal persons, proposed amendments on the basis of signposts of companies and cooperatives Ptk. It also clarifies the obligations of these companies and certain rules of the related court-martial procedure, in order to ensure even smoother implementation of its arrangement. In the context of the interest payment obligation in respect of the debt, Ptké. an interpreter rule is added, which makes it clear that the range of interpretation of the interest claim can only be positive due to the nature of the matter. It was also justified to supplement the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises. The Ptk. The main element of the deposit agreement is that the bank is obliged to pay interest on the deposit placed and then, at a later date, to repay the deposit to the depositors the same amount as the deposit placed. However, there is an important socio-economic interest in adapting the domestic financial system to the international financial situation and money market practice. Therefore, it was necessary to allow banks to conclude or enforce interest with negative indications in accordance with domestic rules, but only if the depositor is not a natural person. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Without the need for completeness, I have tried to point out the most important legislative changes. At the same time, I stress that the bill is linked to the laws you have already adopted, clarifies or complements their content in order to facilitate application and to ensure the smooth conduct of the accounts, on the basis of feedback from law enforcement. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-64	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, It is now time to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. A total of 15 minutes is available for these speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Since there is also a minority opinion, it has a maximum time frame of 8 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-65	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 16 February 2015, Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the amendments to the consumer loan agreements of financial institutions and other private law laws T/3117. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with house rules 41. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The proposal was not accompanied by a separate motion from its representatives, with no intention of amending it, and the summary report was adopted by 26 votes in favour and 5 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-66	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here.
u2015-02-18-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What my colleague Salacz closed, I'll start with. Of course, there is no proposal to amend it, as opposition representatives had a few hours, a few minutes, to submit proposals for amendments to the bill. Obviously, they didn't do it because they couldn't improve this law, but because there was simply no time. There was no time for us to coordinate with those involved, whether they finally find this law appropriate after the many runs, because you intend to get the legislation before us, which is not a little too important - to use this wording - in a few hours, in their usual hasty way of legislation. The critical comments were broadly similar at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. The opposition representatives spoke and asked the government whether the many amendments will now be made to this very important issue, whether we can call it the last one or whether errors will still need to be corrected with regard to the legislation governing this issue. It is not the first time, but the many times that this topic has been brought before us. All Members agreed that the subject was one of the most important issues in society. That is why we have expressed the need to prepare a little better and to establish regulation in a more professional way, because it does not concern the interests of one, not two people, but the interests of the masses, and hundreds of thousands of families are affected by the package of proposals that we are discussing and have discussed in this area before. [[12.00]] The opposition representatives also voiced the criticism that the Hungarian National Bank could have come to light a little sooner. The speaker of two factions also said - I do not quote literally, but the point was - that the President of the National Bank could sometimes look up and do his job from looking at property.com, for example in time, and signal to the Parliament that there are problems with the laws governing the possibility of suing the Hungarian National Bank, rather than rushing at the last moment when the Parliament wishes to discuss and accept a proposal that improves this subject. The opposition representatives have repeatedly asked why this should be done in such a hasty way and why this area should be regulated with so many mistakes. There was also a lively debate at the committee's meeting about what had been the background of this and which governments were responsible for the fact that foreign exchange lenders were in such a situation. Here the opinions are divided. Our group underlined that, if that exchange rate had remained, there would not have been tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in such a bad situation. Of course, contrary opinions were also expressed at the committee meeting. Then, with a point of order debate, Fidesz had the Commission's debate closed. We have objected to this, and many of us have expressed our criticism in this round, so I have myself. It wasn't fashionable at the Legislative Committee's meeting. I sincerely hope, and I would also like to put this on the table in plenary, that it will not become an inconvenience for Fidesz, an inconvenience for a debate, or that its representatives will simply be tired of doing their job. At the committee meeting, especially when the Legislative Committee acts as a commission, it is possible to discuss not only the specific proposal, but also its social environment, history and possible consequences. I hope it does not become fashionable to simply conclude the debate with a point of order proposal and the vote on this. I told you there, and I'm telling you right now that I find this an outrage and an unprecedented attitude at a meeting of the Legislative Committee, thank God. I hope you do not wish to introduce it in the way Imre Vas, who was once referred to by the opposition as king of the order of business, did so at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee during the last parliamentary term. Therefore, MEPs, who did not support this proposal and voted with abstention, wanted to signal at the Legislative Committee that they did not agree with the timing of the legislation, do not agree that the legislation is taking place in such a way that we can only create laws with so many errors, do not agree with the conclusion of the debate with a point of order, but did not want to vote either, because we also agree that this area should be regulated as soon as possible, with as much precision as possible and with as many possibilities as possible for citizens. That is why we will support what is a better-meaning amendment on this subject. Thus, the vote remaining at the committee's meeting was taken on the basis of these considerations, but, as my fellow Members will say, the MSZP faction is expected to support the proposal itself in the final vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-18-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-15-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-02-18-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The decision of the Curia on 16 June 2014 was a turning point in the history of foreign exchange lending in Hungary. The Supreme Court of Justice has never stated in Hungary that banks have acted unfairly and abused their dominant position against foreign exchange creditors. Accordingly, the Parliament adopted, by exceptional procedure, the first law aimed at helping foreign exchange creditors, under which it became the task of financial institutions to eliminate unfair clauses from the general terms and conditions applied by them. Under the laws that have been passed since then, 1 million 300 000 families can recover unfairly stolen funds from banks. This affects approximately 680,000 foreign exchange and 650 thousand HUF-based debtors. After the settlement, payments may decrease by 25-30 percent on average. Financial institutions have to calculate the amount returned to debtors on the basis of the MNB regulation, which is estimated to be up to HUF 1000 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Curia's legal unit decision, in the case of contractual clauses covered by the general terms and conditions published or amended after 26 November 2010, the Hungarian National Bank may examine their unfairness as an exception to the main rule of the Act. If it finds certain clauses unfair, it may, under the current rules, sue a public interest action between 14 February 2015 and 28 February 2015. When processing data submitted on the basis of previously required reporting obligations, it can already be established to the National Bank that the reporting of financial institutions is in many cases incomplete and that it is not possible to fully identify the multi-level regulatory system which is necessary for the proper compilation of the application. In order to address the problem, the content and form requirements of the reporting of financial institutions are specified in this amendment. This is to enable the National Bank to prepare an application with the appropriate content. In order to allow the MNB to submit its actions in the public interest on the basis of the new data, the amendment allows the National Bank to submit its application instead of 28 February 2015, as the State Secretary mentioned, by 30 April 2015 at the latest. The bill provides the MNB with an opportunity to enforce its demand for the relevant consumer loan contracts after 30 April 2015 in specific cases. This may take place if, in any of its proceedings initiated by 31 December 2016, it detects that the reporting of the financial institution was incomplete or untrue in some of its parts. In this case, if the public interest suit is still pending, it is possible to change the action, and if it is final, there is room for revision, while if the case has not been brought before, it is possible to bring proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Hungarian banks could unilaterally amend the contracts by autumn 2010, without the customer's consent, with minimum notification obligations, with practically simple notices posted. In recent months, this practice has been accounted for, and we want to put an end once and for all to the unfair practices of unilateral contractual amendments, cost and fees increases at the expense of customers and interest increases. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-70	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[12.10]]
u2015-02-18-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to announce that the MSZP fraction is voting for the bill before us. I would like to add immediately that we are not saying yes to Fidesz-KDNP's legislative practice, but that what is ruined, which is not applicable, will be improved in the interest of foreign exchange creditors. Once again, we have faced the inaccurate, unthinkable, irresponsible, hasty legislative practice of the Fidesz-KDNP government. Once again, as we have often been accustomed to, we see that the law adopted on the 4th of July did not hold its place in life, but can only be applied with modifications in practice. The reasons for the amendments include several references to the terms "resolving', "extenuating'. It is clear from this that again they were rushing, not asking the opinion of the profession or the court about their bill before it was adopted. Slowly, they can take it slow, you'll get there. They could be saying and trying to do a more precise job. But the rest of us, as we know, is twice as tired. But you not only change your laws twice, but a lot of times. The question arises whether the amendment has now been properly agreed with the courts, for example, or whether it will be amended again as a stubborn, willful child. Then, in a few months' time, we have to touch the law again, because it turns out that in practice it has proved once again that the law is inoperable. I am asking you this for a reason: only now, this amendment complements the rules on lawsuits brought with an action of general interest with the content and form of the disclosure of contractual clauses by financial institutions. If the requirements are not met, the MNB will not be able to prepare an application with the appropriate content. It also shows how inaccurate it was written, and they did not think about how this process would work. Well, then, what were they thinking before? We don't understand that either. It also shows how unthinkable this bill was, the inanimateness, the applicability, and the great rush put reason behind it. Of course, it is understandable that they were in a hurry, since those involved, especially those who voted for you in 2010, rightly asked why they had not done anything in this matter for four years. Yeah, right, because you've been busy over the past four years with the destruction of democracy and the creation of important laws for members, representatives and friends of the Fidesz-KDNP government. Not only did the law lack a formal and substantive definition of the provision of data, the supervision needed to be able to produce an application with an appropriate content. They also amended the deadlines, since the deadline of 28 February was not respected. This deadline is now being extended until April 30th. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Well, there's a few things you might want to tell me about your history. Why it was harmful to wait almost five years to improve the situation of foreign exchange lenders. And I'm not going to mention how much Swiss francs were at the time of the 2010 change of government, I'd like to talk about what's become of it and why it's much worse. The banks, among other things, raised interest unilaterally because they wanted consumers to pay the money taken out of their pockets by the government. Consumers also knew that the banks would pass the extra costs on to them, but somehow you didn't care. By the way, we are talking about the banks, some of which have been stolen, others' owners have been compensated by public purchases, i.e. public money, for the bank tax. It should also be recalled that the largest loss of foreign exchange lenders had to suffer from the exchange rate risk. The exchange rate is not independent of the government's economic policy. For the past four years, all hell has broken loose in this area. The forint was weakened to such an extent that it became a major problem for foreign exchange lenders. According to the statistics of the Hungarian National Bank itself, the amount of an average monthly instalment has increased by more than 70 percent since 2010, and this is mainly due to the evolution of the exchange rate difference. About how much the situation has deteriorated, allow me to say a few numbers after all. In April 2010, EUR 1 cost HUF 265. On the morning of today, if you look at it, 1 euro 308 HUF. In April 2010, the Swiss franc was 185 HUF at the time of the change of government. This morning, 289. And you remember the Swiss franc of 400 forints in January, which today's car-crediters will be getting in payback in days to see how good Fidesz's economic policy is and how it protects them, don't you? [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Is this because of us?]] Well, basically, however you look at it, yes, so Viktor Orbán and György Matolcsy are responsible. The policy that left the forint to its fate in the first years, then, in recent months, it has been openly announced that it does not intend to protect the forint. However, a large part of foreign exchange lenders still suffer from the consequences of exchange rate changes. In addition, families taking out car and free-use loans have been abandoned. Orbán stated in the middle of January that banks and foreign exchange lenders have to negotiate, that the government can only have a mediator role, a mediator role, and that it cannot be anything else. That leaves hundreds of thousands of people on their own, since they are not subject to exchange rate fixing. We are no longer surprised that Viktor Orbán is bringing half-solutions again with his government, and he does not deal with many small people. Dear House, The MSZP fraction will support the bill and patiently wait to see where else another failure or where another filth will come out. The MNB's asset management company has just been set up, the head of which has been given a mandate incompatible with the management of the Monetary Council. I hope that György Matolcsy may notice this between the purchase of two properties or castles. I just hope that all lawlessness will not be again, that the law will be amended, that lawlessness will be legal from now on. Just like we're used to. We expect honesty and proper legislation before Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-18-72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, please.
u2015-02-18-73	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Decision XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts in financial institutions Law No. 4 Paragraph 1 of Article 1 sets as the main rule the legal presumption of unfairness with regard to the general terms and conditions of the contract to be part of consumer loan contracts which are not individually negotiated, such as unilateral increases in interest rates, increases in costs or increases in fees. At the same time, the legal unit law allowed financial institutions to sue the Hungarian State for the annulment of this presumption, proving in the applicant's position that the contracts and clauses concerned were fair. The Law of the Unity of Rights Act 6. However, paragraph 2 of Section 2 provided for an exception to the main rule. There is no presumption of unfairness in respect of the relevant contractual clauses of the general contractual terms published or amended after 26 November 2010. On the basis of the legal provisions, the Hungarian National Bank may examine these clauses as supervision, and if it finds certain clauses unfair, it may bring an action of public interest to determine unfairness. Rules on actions of public interest are laid down in Section XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer credit contracts in financial institutions. Act XL of 2014 on the rules for accounting and certain other provisions. It is determined by law, referring also to the rules of civil proceedings laid down in the law on the unit of law. The draft law on consumer loan contracts of financial institutions and amending other private law laws complements the rules of the Accounting Act on lawsuits brought by public interest actions. It shall also specify in detail the content and format of the reporting of the financial institution in relation to the contractual clauses concerned. [[12.20]] In addition to the above, the bill introduces procedural rules simplifying the procedural mechanism and ensuring more effective enforcement of promises in relation to actions brought by a public interest action. The bill also clarifies the provisions of financial institutions relating to consumer loan agreements and other private law laws, taking into account the practice in the application of the law. The bill amends the 2009 CLXVII on loans to consumers in addition to the Law on Legal Unites and the Accounting Act. Act CCXXXVII of 2013 on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises Act CLXXVII of 2013 on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code LXXVI of 2014 on the amendment of the currency of each consumer loan contract and on the provision of interest rate rules. Law. Please support T/3117. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-74	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here.
u2015-02-18-75	Mr President, Dear House, We can even support the package before us, since adapting the formal requirements for reporting is a very important thing, a professional step that can be supported and facilitate certain procedures. Except this paper shouldn't be lying in front of us. It is quite clearly visible and it can be seen that Fidesz-KDNP's current motion - which, I say, would be eligible from a formal point of view if a mine or two were not hidden - simply follows the earlier flow diagram that the government is trying to take positive steps that can be well communicated on a partial basis, and in practice, at systemic level, not only to betray the foreign exchange credit victims, but also to legalise some of the money that has been stolen, credit the banks' accounts, and now the government is not making a secret about concluding a pact with the banking system, the Banking League. This was announced at the most extensive press conferences, and there it was practically declared that the institution of the private bankruptcy would not be introduced in such a way that it would not be adequate for the Banking Association; there were already thoughts about the eviction quota, that, if necessary, Fidesz-KDNP would allow Hungarian people to evict from their homes in a more favourable way to the banks. And why are you doing all this? He even admits that from 2006 Bank lending that has been considered sacred should start, which has not been functioning properly in the country for more than ten years, and practically regardless of government coloring, all Hungarian governments have allowed themselves to be delivered to the international financial network that tells you what law you should and should not do. Now, that's what's outrageous. I'm telling you, in the paper package in front of us, against the formal requirements for reporting in cases of public interest, I don't have any serious objections. Of course, we could be teasing, but we're not here to tease, we're here to try to improve, to improve what we can still do. But in front of us, there is a paper that has already been crawling with a keynote speaker's explanation of lies. Well, here it was said that they would give back to the Hungarian people the money they unduly took from them. That's not exactly true! The majority of Hungarians took on their so-called foreign exchange loans at HUF 150-160, and now they are HUF 250 at an almost market rate. The amount between the two can be legally stolen by the financial institution, in the case of contracts where there was no fair conversion rate or a fair amount of debt in respect of car credits, in accordance with the daily exchange rate, at 70% of the contract weight concerned. This is legalized by the Fidesz-KDNP government, so that its pact can be concluded with the banking system, so that from 2016 it is apparent that internal lending will start. The fact is, however, that we should not necessarily be discussing the formal requirements for reporting here only and only. We should talk about having over 250,000 car-credited people the government said we weren't gonna help, and then we're gonna mediate. The government takes the role of mediator heroically against the banking system that it should regulate. What are you doing, on the other hand? By eliminating and dismembering independent and independent consumer protection, he packed all of this under the National Bank of Hungary, so we cannot really talk about independent consumer protection - respect for the exception - in Hungary. And then there's free-use loans, credit contracts. This is another 300,000 people's social crowd, more precisely about 300,000, but if you look at the family members behind them and not just the family cores, you're looking at an even bigger crowd. In addition, there are 130,000 contracts, the owner of which has not been able to repay for more than 90 days, which can be considered as falling in, and it can be seen that, as the banks concerned pay or pay these debts in a fishy kofa way, at 15-35 percent of the debt price if compared to the volume of the debt, such government type settlements or attempts to settle only and only win the banking system, will get much more for his perceived or real debt than it really is worth and could get under market conditions. So the pact policy leads you to legalize unwarranted funds in bank accounts, which should be returned to the people involved. We don't say that every bank is guilty and that we don't need them. Yes, you do. But we say that if we want real, clean market conditions in Hungary, then financial fraud and fraud of the century must not be left without consequences. And now you should be talking about car loan holders, the owners of free-use loans, but that didn't even come out, let alone in the lead speaker's or even in the intro. Meanwhile, in the package before us, they have the guts to touch the Ptk. without more serious, wider social coordination. But the settlement of the fate of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians doesn't even occur to you, because you have made a pact with the banks, and now the banks are telling you what is on this paper and what is not on it. We also need to see - what the head speaker of the MSZP criticizes, by the way, partly rightly - that the evolution of the exchange rate is influenced not only by the government, because there have been a number of international spill-over effects here that have not made it easier for the Orbán government since the 2010s; I must note this for the sake of fairness. At the same time, it would have been a number of tools for the previous Orbán government and for the current government to intervene. But what did he do? He kept pushing the problem over and over and over again, pursuing swing policy and a pact policy. By the way, he denied this at first, since the billboards of the giants had been cleared of the banks. But even when it was found from a preliminary ruling by the Court of Justice of the Union that there was essentially no currency, up to 20% of the volume behind the so-called foreign exchange credit contracts, even with reference to the Curia and other bodies, the government postponed the action. The most impertinent was the forinting around the market rate. This is where you lied to our eyes about how the Curia tied your hand in terms of the exchange rate, while it was a brazen lie! No clause of the Curia has said a word about the exchange rate you can use or use during the conversion. It is quite clear that it should have been forinted at the rate of admission, which is what it should be now. But even if, at the time of the first change of government, in 2010, they had looked at the exchange rate at that time and said that, yes, we would immediately forint these loans at the rate of admission, but even if they had done so at the daily rate, we would still have held a price below HUF 200, but your four-and-a-half-year long-term huddle led to a thousand-billion-dollar expense on the side of the people and the same legalized income on the banks. Now you're regrouping some of this, but I'm stressing only part of it. They took a hi-fi tower from the store, stole it, and you want the record player back -- well, setting it up for bank accountability is ridiculous. And they add that along the current exchange rate drop, many people have escaped even greater disaster. We are very happy about this, because it is very good that this free movement of exchange rates has not completely hit people, but this does not change the basic problem. In the light of these questions, the question arises why, when we are discussing the formal requirements for reporting here, we do not discuss the problems of the citizens concerned in their depth. It can be seen that 95 percent of the contracts were converted to Swiss francs, 150-160 HUF Swiss francs, which are now counted at 256.47 HUF/Swiss francs, so this corresponds to a 70 percent increase compared to the justified one. With regard to the examination of annuity loans, let us say if we examined a 25-year loan agreement and eight years later, there are simply very few examples during the one-third term where the debt would have decreased by more than 20%. [[12.30]] After all, there is a huge proportion of settled monthly debts for interest payments and very little for repayment. So interest will take most of the repayment weight. That means 80 percent of the debt is still outstanding, even if we expect great goodwill. This is still growing by 70 percent, thanks to your conversion. So we're at 156 percent of the debt. But in the rest of the time, because these contracts are still spinning, they're still running, the interest rate doubles that. In practice, it doubles at market average, so it is still necessary to pay 312 percent of the loan received, if any. There are no market conditions that could justify this; and to put this 312 percent payment obligation on the billboard to have the banks accounted for, well, this is another scam of the century! This is an inexpensive mass, since two thirds of the duration of the contracts, if any, is still to come - this is a real two-thirds. And we have to say that if someone does not intervene now and correct this whole mess under fair economic conditions, which you have allowed to extend here and develop over the last few years, then the impact on the Hungarian national economy will cause incredible damage to this whole process. That is true, even if the greater trouble you have now seems to have been averted. What has happened overall, and what I believe should be discussed here as a closing point? In the 1980s, the state was practically indebted, and there was a very conscious part of it, because for this reason, during the period of privatisation, the entire Hungarian production capacity was sold and taken away from the Hungarian owners. And we also need to see that in the 2000s, when similar credit schemes began to emerge, we must not forget that a 2001 amendment allowed the spirit out of the bottle, when, in fact, it was possible to introduce similar loans on the market, and then the unilateral transfer of loans and the granting of amendments only made the situation worse. We have now come to the point that investment funds in America and elsewhere are simply preparing to hide behind investment companies and put their hands on the masses of Hungarian people's real estate. And now, in the name of the failed loans, you will also have the opportunity to do so, because the state or the MNB organised the so-called bad bank, it is alive, it will obtain these demands in bulk. It can be seen from your bank purchases that the aim here was not to create easier conditions and real competitive conditions for Hungarian-owned or even state-owned banks, as it already arises that after 3-5 years they will get rid of them and give them to private hands. So there is no chance that we can achieve serious repairs and facilitations here. But for example, what a bad bank organised by an MNB is doing with the assets acquired, we have no knowledge of this. And we certainly don't have any guarantees. So it is living and there is a danger that this huge mass of demands may be transferred to private hands, into the hands of investment funds, and that the masses of Hungarian people will lose their housing in the face of their most basic human rights. So that this huge mass of real estate may not even be in Hungarian hands. So they are opening the gates for a market re-enactment process at the moment, which would not only be unsuitable in Hungary, but also unsuitable in any fair market economy in the world. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-76	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here.
u2015-02-18-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the same time as the submission of this bill on Friday, the government announced that it would buy Budapest Bank for nearly HUF 214 billion at a double price compared to the fair market valuation. Last week, the Hungarian government not only became part owner of Erste Bank, but also adopted an agreement package that virtually closed the banks' settlement. However, the losers of the new compromise this time became the most vulnerable people, families on the brink of their debt, who have not received any help in the last four years, and now they are losing hope that this will change. In addition to EBRD's guardianship, the government undertakes, among other things, to refrain from further tightening of property auctions and evictions, on the basis of a recent agreement. It also undertook to adopt measures to protect the private institution and other insolvent debtors only with the agreement of the Banking Association. This comes with the amazing promise that the government will not take any negative action on banks' profits. With this, the government essentially renounces the strengthening of financial consumer protection, the protection of troubled debtors and the limitation of possible abuses of financial institutions. In the past four years, the Orbán government has been treating those who are in a difficult situation because of foreign exchange or other debts. Both end-payment and forinting are mainly easier for debtors who can still pay, but their loans and so often their homes are not supported by any support. The government gave them, the breakers, nothing. It didn't help those who needed it the most. Steps against the debt trap that crippled the masses of families did not provide sufficient help. In fact, the fact that the Hungarian National Bank converts foreign currency loans at a rate of 309 HUF, while obtaining the euro at a much cheaper average rate of approximately 250 HUF, also means that all the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign exchange lending in recent years is borne by the lenders. In spite of the LMP's proposals on the debt ceiling, the ban on factoring, the ban on eviction without a final judgment or the support of the private institution, they were swept off the table by the government. The government, through this compromise, has shown for many times that the poorest people simply do not exist for it. Everyone now knows what Péter Róna said first: foreign currency credit is a defective product. For four years, however, the government has been told that the forinting must be stepped up. In 2010, at the time of the change of government, the euro was still 265 HUF, if it had escaped then, not only would we have gained a difference compared to the currency exchange rate of 309 HUF, but we could have saved four years of dependence. It would be good to recognise Community objectives in time this time, and to take into account the proposals for the protection of LMP creditors to the legal level when amending the laws on loans to consumers, as well as on credit institutions and financial undertakings. First, that eviction cannot take place without a final court ruling. So far, the currency-credited rescue packages have helped almost only the more efficient debtors, but the party is committed to taking measures to protect the really fallen. Here it seeks to prevent people from being evicted without examining the validity of judicial judgments or contracts. Secondly, banks should not sell their claims to collecting companies. Our proposal would make it more difficult for banks to implement it in other ways. It would prohibit the authorisation of a claim arising out of a credit agreement or a leasing contract for housing purposes. In practice, this means that financial institutions should not be able to sell debt to specialised debt companies, but should they want to obtain their money, they should go through the legal path themselves. This would obviously be unpleasant for the banks, especially when it turns out in court that the whole contract is invalid. They'd probably be more inclined to agree. Thirdly, the institution of the protected account must be introduced. The direct consequence of the termination of the contract is the sale, factoring of the financial institution's claim and the transfer of the execution of the claim. On the basis of information, regular reports and regulatory proposals from consumer organisations, the biggest consumer concerns occur when the demand for release from the lender is met. The strengthening of consumer protection rules calls for regulation and tightening of the behaviour of financial institutions buying claims, the amendment of legislation on enforcement, the amendment of rules on out-of-court enforcement and the introduction of new legal institutions. There are many complaints that the recovery order recovered by the enforcement officer will be carried out without criticism by the banks and that the amounts of the bank account balance which cannot be put into execution and the amounts received in the bank account on the items protected by the implementing law will also be collected for the applicant for enforcement. This would be the solution to the so-called protected account. Each bank would be obliged to provide the account holder with the protected account free of charge without any charge. [[12.40]] A reference to this account should be made only on grounds which are exempt from enforcement under the implementing law. The balance in this payment account could in no case be implemented. However, no reference to the account other than credit on protected titles and references to protected titles could be made, thereby preventing debtors from withdrawing their income and property from enforcement. Fourth, we need to introduce a private bankruptcy facility. In all States, the private bankrupt institution, which contains bankruptcy rules related to bankruptcy law in the event of the insolvency of a private individual, is known. In 2009, the IRM presented a very thorough and detailed regulatory proposal to the Parliament, which was not discussed, although we consider acceptable. The introduction of a private failure institution is essential because in the long run it will ensure the protection of those who are completely poor. The introduction of the private institution has caused significant opposition from the bank lobby as it would adversely affect the enforcement of mortgage claims. Finally, for the last time, there is a need to take major steps in the area of financial awareness and consumer protection. The government has forgotten a very important element of the Curia's decision that foreign exchange-based contracts may be defective if the debtor has not been properly informed of the possible extent of the exchange rate risk. The government did not reveal the extent to which the information was less than required by law and did not incorporate the result of a systemic failure to provide information. Please be partners in the integration of these points. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-18-78	Thank you very much. There is now room for further speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Lukács, Mr Jobbik, the first of the speakers who have asked for the normal word. [[For signal:]] But he's not in the room. The name of any other Member or congresswoman will not appear on the monitor. I'll ask if anyone in this room would like to speak. [[No signal.]] No. In that case, Honourable Parliament... [[Dr. László György Lukács enters the Chamber.]] The news has arrived, and it's fortunate I didn't say the following sentence, which would have ended the debate, which I'm not closing out of fairness, but I'm giving the floor. I say such long, baroque sentences to find the button of your jacket, your card, and this obviously gives you a way to collect your thoughts, so it is for Congressman Luke to take the floor. Thank me for what I did. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-02-18-79	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the fair and fair procedure between the walls of this House, as almost one of the newcomers, it is a great honor to show such honor to me. In any case, my thoughts were gathered, because my thoughts had been gathered before by having mentioned once at the Legislative Committee what I would like to point out about the bill. One part - and I would like to split it into two parts - points to the MNB's problem of a public interest action, an approach to the MNB, we can say that we can welcome it to a club that has had foreign exchange creditors and foreign exchange victims since 2010 or even earlier. In my reading - and that is what Mr Secretary of State said - the MNB itself experienced the difficulties of suing a financial institution, a bank, how difficult it is to properly file an application against them in order to include the relevant data. That is why this amendment is necessary. But you can see from this that from 2010, when private parties tried to enforce their private interests and, by the way, they tried to extract information from the bank that enabled them to establish unfairness in their earnings, these private parties had a very difficult task. It is not in one case that their lawsuits have been practically blocked because the banks have not cooperated as much or more as they have now not cooperated with the MNB, and it is necessary to amend the deadline on the one hand and to lay down detailed rules on the other, as they themselves have encountered the wall that foreign exchange lenders have encountered. And who are we to thank for meeting these walls? I believe that the government at the time is also responsible for the fact that the people who tried to sue for their own interests in 2010 could not find any help from the government. Now the MNB has found help from the government, even because it seems that the government is a great friend of the MNB. But if we reverse the line of thought, the only thing that remains is that the government has not been a friend to people who have been suing since 2010 or before or after. So it would have been nice for clients to have had friends with the government and introduced similar laws. With this, I join the previous speakers that this is not a current issue in January 2015, but a question that has been constantly on the table since 2010 and even before that, and now an eloquent example of the MNB's need to help is proof that since 2010 private parties, private interests, should have been at least helped in individual proceedings. So I think that even if György Matolcsy had not dictated what amendments had to be made, it would have been one of the Fidesz individual representatives who would have stood up and said that in my host hour, the foreign exchange victims who had filed lawsuits against the banks and were constantly truncated because of the burden of proof in which the banks did not help, they did not want to help, they did not have any interest in helping them, and they were constantly dangled and brought to slaughterery, practically the individual lawsuits and the individual parties to the lawsuits in the Hungarian courts. The other thing I wanted to say to you about is also an observation on the side of the exercise, and this is Ptké. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) is authorised provided that all of the following conditions are met: Here, in connection with the registration in the register and the amendment of the articles of association, the polemia. It was a well-known situation that the new Ptk. came up with the fact that all economic companies must bring their instruments of incorporation into line with the new Ptk. There were similar problems faced by the corporate world and the lawyers, lawyers and other legal representatives representing companies and corporate officials, that they had already encountered such a problem. Such was the transfer of activities, or the announcement of strict, let's say, headquarters rules and headquarters, but there are plenty of analogue methods that the company managers have already encountered. And, again, the same problem arose, and the government again fell into the same problem and obligation to take action, as time is running out, since certain deadlines, such as those in public supply companies and deposit companies, would have expired on 15 March 2015 which otherwise threatened companies with a fine. Well, now you've been looking for another way out of this, and it's been a long way out. So we can safely draw a generalization from this, from which we can see that for the prudents who were prepared in advance, this is a lighter, but detrimental regulation for them, and for those who speculatingly expected that they would once again rescue the executives in the last moments, as the government had promised and had a good habit. In any case, all such facilitations should not be hidden under the rules of the company's daily life and operation, but it points to a very bad process, which seems to have become a habit with companies and companies. And the other problem - and it can be said from the legal representatives' side - makes it unthinkable, for example, to transform the company's statutes, because if someone started in time, they saw that they had paid unnecessarily for a job or provided a service for which they may not want to pay or are reluctant to pay, because this law is exactly what will destroy the work they do. So, on the one hand, it seems to be an easing and, on the other hand, a rush, and these rushing solutions have followed the concept of companies since 2010, not with regard to the concept of Ptk. but with regard to the actual business registration and court-martial procedure. I would suggest that we approach this subject with a further and much greater degree of complacency, rather than a hasty solution, rather than usually choosing the worst solutions, and not once again in a situation where we need to touch the legislation again 10 or 20 days before the expiry of a deadline, just to make it easier for companies. Instead, let us put in place legislation which is basically easy for companies, easy to transfer, and this could have been incorporated into the Ptké. - what we have just put in it and what the bill says - in this way, and could have saved unnecessary confusion and unnecessary work, both on the side of companies and on the side of legal representatives representing economic companies. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.50]]
u2015-02-18-80	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP, asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2015-02-18-81	Thank you very much for the floor. I asked for two minutes because it was wrong to see Mr. Répássy's sarcastic, arrogant laugh when he mentioned that these 400 forints would now be felt by people, and then you said it was your fault, of course. You know, it's not 400 forints your fault, it's when people had to face the fact that the Swiss franc is 400 forints in mid-January. And at first, they thought that you said that you saved them, that you saved every foreign exchange loaner, and then you had to realize that as car loaners and free-use credentials, you couldn't save them. And then you'll see in your installment that they are hard hit by this 400 forints. 'Cause even if they didn't count at 400, they were counting that month around 350. You know, that 10 to 15,000 forints extra wiper for a Suzuki-credited guy is gonna hit very, very hard this month. And they're pulling the ground out of a lot of people with 10 to 15,000 extras, which, of course, you don't feel, because it didn't mean that much to you. Only it means a lot to people. And they're gonna stand there, and they're gonna take 10 to 15,000 forints out of their pockets, plus the banks. You're gonna make a deal with them, buy the 15 percent, sit back. After all, they took care of everything, didn't they? They cleared the banks and saved the credentials. It's the same lie as there's been a lot of things lately. It's just, you know, people at home see that you're lying about this. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I ask the author: Mr Secretary, do you wish to respond to what has been said? [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] It says yes. Mr. Secretary of State Répássy. Here.
u2015-02-18-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hoped that during the debate on the bill there would not be a repeat of the debate on foreign exchange credit laws, but it was a waste to hope for that. I would like to remind you that from the so-called foreign exchange loan laws adopted by the Parliament last year, three out of the four laws were voted by the opposition, with the exception of one or two independent votes against. Indeed, the fourth law was not voted by the opposition, or at least largely not voted by the opposition. So we were arguing here about laws that were supposed to have the support of the Parliament. As regards the allegations that the government has not helped in due time, the government has not helped in depth these problems: we have indeed had the opportunity to debate a lot in the last year, but I would like to recall that in the previous parliamentary term and already in this cycle, so six times in the two cycles, the Parliament has dealt with the issue of foreign exchange credit during six legislative acts. So the Parliament has passed at least six laws in which we have helped the situation of foreign exchange lenders. After all, the Parliament first decided on a lump sum final repayment, almost 200,000 families were able to make use of the possibility of a lump sum final repayment. Then the Parliament decided to set up the asset manager. Then, in the middle of this year, the four foreign exchange-credit laws, the law implementing the Curia's legal unit decision and imposing binding force on banks, which allowed unfair contract terms to be removed from contracts. After that, we decided on the accountability of banks, on the rules of fair banks, on the new rules on how banks should act in the future. And fourth, we also decided on the mandatory conversion of foreign exchange credit contracts, loan and consumer contracts. So the Parliament has dealt with hundreds of thousands of people's problems on the government's proposal, and I have to say, there is no foreign currency loaner today whose contract would remain completely untouched, because, thanks to the government and the legislation, all these contracts have been facilitated by the Parliament. Indeed, he did not cancel these contracts, but we have often explained that the total nullity of the contracts would result in undesirable results, as it would lead to the restoration of the original state, and unfortunately, the original condition can be described simply as the bank had money and the client did not have a flat. And this original condition is not desirable for anyone, so it was necessary to make amendments to the contractual relationship under the terms of the contract, while maintaining the contracts, which make it easier for foreign exchange lenders. This year, in 2015 nearly HUF 1000 billion will be returned to the families, more precisely HUF 1000 billion will be easier to credit, their debt, and this will be the overall effect of these laws, and an average figure of 25-30 percent of capital repayment is expected under these accounting laws. So I think that Parliament has done a great deal, on the basis of the government's proposal, to solve the problem of foreign exchange lending. So much for what this bill isn't about. The bill, as I said in the introduction, at the start of the debate, corrects these laws on a few points, precisely allowing the Hungarian National Bank of Banking Supervision to intervene and give the National Bank a meaningful opportunity to bring an action on the basis of appropriate data, and on the basis of appropriate and now organised data, the commercial banks should report their general terms and conditions to the Hungarian National Bank. Then, on the basis of a strong consumer protection law, the Hungarian National Bank will be able to bring an action in the public interest if it considers that the banks do not comply with the laws governing the general terms and conditions of the contract. The government is asking for your help. And I am pleased that, in addition to the criticisms, there were decisive statements of support. I would ask all the groups in this House to support this proposal, as this will allow for consumer protection amendments. The government is aware that consumer loans will continue to be dependent on individuals, natural persons, in the future, to be supported by the Parliament or the Government in order to get rid of the problem of foreign exchange lending and to get rid of the debt at all. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Friday. Dear Parliament, The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/3018. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Nearly a year ago, on 15 March 2014, Hungary's new code of civil law, the Civil Code, entered into force. The second book of the Code, and its third part, contains the civil protection of images and recordings. I will quote the following legal rule:. The consent of the person concerned is necessary for the production and use of a picture or sound recording. "The Civil Code," says he. This bill is not designed to amend the civil code; the civil code has been debated more than two years ago. The purpose of the bill before you is merely to ensure consistent and effective implementation of the provisions of the Civil Code, and it is therefore appropriate for us to start from these substantive rules. The new civil code has raised the legal force for decades of judicial practice and the prevailing interpretation of the right to image and audio recording based on the previous civil code. Accordingly, the existing Ptk. it provides that, in addition to the disclosure or other abusive use of the image or sound recording, their unauthorised production is itself contrary to the law. [[13.00]] The consent of the person included in the recording is required both for the production of images and for the use of the recorded recording. The only exceptions to this rule are mass shooting and public participation. In accordance with the general rule on declarations of rights, the contribution was neither previously nor was the one in force at Ptk. is not subject to formality, i.e. can be given in words, in writing or with a reference to it. The case law has long been uniform in that the author of the image or sound recording is responsible for proving that the data subject has given his consent to the production or disclosure of the image or sound recording made of him. The burden of proof thus rests on the defendant who made the recording of the parties, and this includes the obligation to prove the existence of grounds for rescue. T/3018. The draft law amending the civil procedure is based on the substantive rules set out above. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly describe the new procedure set out in the bill, which establishes a separate chapter in order to enforce the right to image and audio recording as effectively as possible in the rules of procedure, as is already the case in the press. In particular, the need for this amendment is justified by the fact that, under the provisions currently in force, lawsuits can only be brought under the general rules. The nature of the infringement, the fundamental need for a response to the infringement within a short period of time, justifies the introduction of a new special procedure within the framework and as part of our existing civil order, which can guarantee the possibility of rapid, transparent and effective action against infringements, while at the same time maintaining the possibility of bringing proceedings under the general rules. According to the bill, the new enforcement option consists of two stages: prior proceedings and litigation. The amendment focuses primarily on the interests of persons who have been violated by their right to image or sound recording. Preliminary proceedings may be used to remedy the infringement as soon as possible before the trial is brought. It will be possible for the infringer, at the request of the injured party, to quasi-voluntaryly restore the pre-infringement status within the prescribed time limit, to cease the further infringement, to terminate the injury situation and to give adequate satisfaction to the data subject. Optimally, therefore, prior proceedings will result in the avoidance of recourse to a court. The swiftness of the procedure is facilitated by the possibility for the data subject to submit an application for remedy within 30 days. This time limit shall be calculated from the date on which the image or sound recording is produced or used, but no preliminary proceedings shall be opened after six months from that date. I stress that the latter deadline does not mean that the infringement is not possible under the general rules. Failure to do so only means that a case under a special procedure cannot be brought. In the case of a request, the data subject may request the application of sanctions, which could already be requested in the preliminary procedure under the proposal, irrespective of the charge for the violation of personal rights. The introduction of the procedure under the proposal may also facilitate the procedures for establishing possible subsequent compensation and damages by providing evidence of the legal basis already in the special procedure, thus helping to quickly close these proceedings. In addition, the proposed amendment procedure can be terminated as soon as possible, in order to ensure that the court acts out of order in the court's proceedings, that the court sets the hearing within 8 days of the date on which the application was brought, that the absence of either party does not prevent the first hearing from being held and that the absence of both parties leads to the termination of the proceedings, that the hearing may be postponed only exceptionally in justified cases, in the event of a likelihood of the effectiveness of the evidence, and that there is no justification, counterclaim, no place for retrial. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. By laying down the basic rules of the pre-trial procedure, the bill also facilitates the prevention of litigation and, if voluntary performance is not carried out, ensures the remedyability of the infringement in the conduct of the special proceedings as soon as possible. I hope that my fellow Members have been made aware of the real objectives of the proposal and that you will be convinced that the proposal is for good purposes. I hope that today's debate will not be dominated by the tabloid interpretation that in the future you will not be able to take pictures on the street. This statement was not true two years ago, and now it would be particularly disappointing if my fellow Members confused civil material law with procedural rules. The bill, on the other hand, serves to remedy all violations that are often caused by careless, underage and vulnerable social groups. That's what the government's asking for. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-02-18-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In the general debate on the bill before us, I would like to say only a few words to the speaker before me, in which I would like to draw attention to the importance of the proposal and highlight the need for a rapid response to the nature of the infringements resulting from image and sound recording. First of all, however, let me say a few words in a few sentences about the substantive legal background for the protection of the right of personality in question. We are well aware that the protection of personality rights ensures the integrity of man's personality. And integrity comes from the legal capacity that belongs to every human being from birth. Man's image and voice, as the appearance of personality in the outside world, are an indispensable means and condition for distinguishing and identifying the individual. Within the framework of these rights, everyone has the right to contribute or prevent the recording of him or the recording already made available to the public. The year 1959 was the year IV. Law, i.e. the former Ptk. in accordance with its provisions, any abuse of the image or sound recording was a violation of the rights of the person. Apart from certain cases of public participation and mass recording, the Code requested the consent of the person concerned for the preparation and disclosure of the recording of the person concerned. This contribution excluded the infringement. The new Civil Code, which entered into force on 15 March last year, is the former Petk. It already clarifies its provisions. In fact, it reduces the legal possibility of recording by adding a long-established and consistent interpretation of the previous judicial practice to expressly stating that the image, recording, without consent or for other reasons, may be unlawful in itself, not only the publication, misuse of the recording, i.e. its distribution, production, reproduction or transmission. There is no doubt that the right to privacy today is typically violated by the abuse of image and sound recording, given the rapid development of communication and information technology. I think it is important that protection should be ensured not only at the level of substantive legislation, i.e. the civil code, but also at the level of procedural legislation increasing the effectiveness of enforcement. [[13.10]] In response to the demand raised, it has therefore become an urgent task to ensure that a rapid and effective system of procedures against these infringements is in place. Therefore, in order to ensure that the legal protection of people's privacy and certain elements of the personality remains firm and is based on a truly sound basis, it is necessary to strengthen the protection of rights. With these objectives in mind, the proposal serves the consistent implementation of the substantive provisions in force and provides the legal basis for a specific procedure for enforcing this right of personality. Under the rules of civil procedure currently in force, proceedings may be brought under the general rules in the event of violation of the right to image and audio recording. In order to respond and sanction the infringement within a short period of time and to ensure effective enforcement of rights, the proposal, like the press correction procedure, establishes a separate procedure, in which the courts are required to proceed out of order for speed and for the sake of legal efficiency. It is proposed that the applicant, in this particular type of action, may request the application of sanctions which are independent of the charging authority, which are merely intended to eliminate the infringement as soon as possible. I think it is important to point out that the conduct of this special procedure is not an obstacle to the application of other sanctions for violation of personal rights, and that the injured party should also bring another action under the general rules. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, With the adoption of this proposal, I believe that a new era can open up in terms of remedies, which adapts to the expectations of the age. In view of all this, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-18-88	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-89	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If I put the microphone on, you might even hear it...
u2015-02-18-90	It is also very good for the Members to hear it, but honor the viewers. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-91	Thank you, Mr. President, you may be able to hear it now. Then I'll start again. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the previous two speeches, I thought of one thing, and let me begin with this. If at least the Member who gave the keynote speech of Fidesz before reading it here would read his own speech at least once, he might put down the paper and say something else, as my fellow Member spoke about what he asked us not to talk about. Of course, this does not bind Members at all, but it is so strange that the Fidesz Secretary of State says that we should not talk about the rules of substantive law, compared to that, the Fidesz lead speaker spent four out of six minutes - I watched - presenting the substantive rules. So I would just suggest that either the ministry and the Fidesz expert team coordinate, or that sometimes it would be worth breaking away from the paper, but that was just a preliminary remark. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about substantive rules, so I will even do what the Secretary of State asks, but I will explain whether we have been able to convince Mr State Secretary of the real purpose of the proposal. As Mr Secretary of State has said, and I do not think it is necessary to repeat this, this proposal for a special procedure is being put in place before us, which consists of two parts, and allows for a much faster and significantly more effective procedure for the enforcement of the law when someone violates his right to the image or the recording. What I can say is that it is worth considering this proposal in itself from a professional point of view, and even its support, because, like press litigation, it also allows for a more efficient and faster procedure, and indeed, if you want to protect personality rights, human dignity, you need to look for an effective way to achieve it and the best legal solutions. We have done this in many cases, whether in civil law or in the substantive part of criminal law, or in the procedural parts of criminal law and civil law. Some were supported by Fidesz, some were not. We are also committed to ensuring that the human dignity and personality rights of others are not violated, and that if someone does so, they can be dealt with as effectively as possible. However, ladies and gentlemen, when we are debating the law in Parliament, and we are having this general debate in particular, then the social environment, the reasons for the submission, and the timing of that can simply not be ignored. It cannot be ignored because in many cases the intention of the legislator differs from what appears either in the written justification of the bill or in the author's exposé. I think we're dealing with a situation like this here. I believe that it is particularly harmful and faulty when politics legislates itself, and political actors defend themselves by legislative means. In other words, they form laws to protect themselves or those close to them. And here, if you will, the horse's foot is very, very, very out of line in this regard. Dear Parliament, It has not been uncommon in the past four or five years that we have implemented personalised legislation, obviously with our vote against, but still the legislation has been adopted, so Fidesz has proposed such acts. He always shaped the legislation as possible, of course, but it was in the interest of someone or someone at the time. Let's remember a few of these. For example, when the legislation on the President of the Curia was changed and the President of the Curia was required to have five years of legal practice in Hungary, even though he knew that the President of the Supreme Court at that time could not apply for this position again, because he did not have five years of Hungarian law, but only a few decades of foreign judicial practice. But we were faced with the same thing when we saw that the 98 percent special tax, which was intended only to be imposed on opposition officials, was accidentally affected by a person who was kind to you, namely Károly Szász; a bill came suddenly, which amended the legislation so that he was practically the only beneficiary of this amendment, was not subject to the 98 percent special tax. Or, of course, it can be allowed, because it is so in many foreign countries that people aged 70 and over can be appointed ambassadors, only just when this rule was adopted by the Parliament, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Szapáry as Ambassador in Washington a few days later. Or, in fact, Zsolt Borkai, mayor of Fideszes Győr, where the rule was introduced, probably because of the betterie planned candidates, that those who were a member of the law enforcement body could no longer play a political role in the next five years, and when it turned out to be about Zsolt Borkai, they introduced a law amendment in which they removed this barrier, delivered it for three years, and see a miracle, this did not affect Zsolt Borkai, and he could run for mayor, and he could also run for Parliamentary Representatives. Now, these are the personalised legislation that I think is unacceptable. [[13.20]] And you know, when the press is full of it, and half the Internet society is making fun of how Árpád Habony comes into Parliament with a Gucci bag; when there is a scandal that the photo of the Prime Minister's son, who participated in the world championship of ominous football, is being made public, and in this press they are making fun of; when the Prime Minister's daughter writes an outraged letter about how to handle photos, then suddenly a law arrives at the National Assembly, which seeks to amend the procedural rules on precisely these cases. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not our job, and not only for us, and for you, but also for Fidesz Members, to protect the children and advisors of the Prime Minister by legislative means, but it is their duty to submit legislative proposals in the public interest. That is the purpose of this bill. Because your timing makes it very clear why you're thinking of bringing this bill in here right now. And that, my fellow Members, is unacceptable. I do not wish to mention what Mr Secretary of State said - I am very happy to respect your request - whether or not you can take pictures on the street from now on - that is not interesting. What's interesting is what motivated the government side to bring this law in here, because that's about how you can sum up the purpose of the law, this is the message that if you get involved with us, this is how you do it. This is the message of this bill. You know, Secretary of State, if this had been presented completely independently of these events, I would have settled the speech in two minutes, and I would have said: "Secretary, this is a good proposal, we support and vote in favour." It is just the underlying motivation that I find perfectly unacceptable for my part, and I think that this should be put on the table here in this debate. You know, Secretary of State, when I ask your fellow State Secretary, Bence Rétvári, for a little boy who had to undergo an intervention quickly, a medical procedure, and not to the OEP before the intervention, but only later, and afterwards, that intervention was deemed justified, and OEP said that even if it was first told, it would not be recommended to do it differently and to support him; the money that had been prepaid for the operation will not be reimbursed by OEP. He's not gonna pay you back. And when I ask the Secretary of State if you think it's okay, it says you're sorry, that's the law. You know, Secretary of State, that's when you don't care about ordinary people, only those who are close to you. This is unacceptable and intolerable. At that time, when this little boy, Abel Pukler, can't afford, out of equity, the one and a half million forints that his operation cost, because that's what the government decree says, then you, when the Prime Minister's family or advisors suffer any inconvenience, can then propose a law immediately afterwards. This is unacceptable! I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to put a bill here when it is in the public interest and not in the private interests of people close to you, even if the law itself is acceptable and eligible. This motivation, honourable Members, is unacceptable. Dear Secretary of State, Before you... because I can see that you've been hit by this, yes, these two statements are not mutually exclusive. It would also be possible to support an amendment to the legislation that will give this little boy his treatment costs back, which would also be eligible. Why isn't that here? He's not here because you don't care. What you're interested in is what's going on with the people close to you. This is the problem, Mr. Secretary of State, and this is what I think is impossible for it to happen here in the House of Parliament, this type of personalised legislation, this kind of privilege and this kind of neglect to those who are in a really vulnerable situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-18-92	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here.
u2015-02-18-93	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to reject what has just been said by our fellow MSZP Member, Gergely Bárándy. We must reject the assumption, the unfounded assumption, that personalised legislation would take place in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why did this project come here now?]] On the subject of our agenda, I would like to say the following. At its meeting on 14 January 2015, the Government discussed and accepted Article III of the 1952 Act on Civil Procedure relating to the detailed rules of the Special Civil Procedure for the Enforcement of the Right to Images and Sounds. The Government's referral to amend law and ordered the present bill to be submitted to Parliament. The bill is related to Article VI of the Fundamental Law. 1) which governs the right to respect for private and family life, home, contacts and good repute. Dear fellow Member, This is the motif that justifies the amendment of the law, the Pp. amendment. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why now?]] the right to respect for private and family life, home, contacts and good repute. Dear fellow Member, This is the motif that justifies the amendment of the law, the Pp. amendment. (Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why now?) Today, the right to privacy can be violated by the gradual development of communication and information technology through the abuse of images and audio recordings. For this reason, in the digital age of today, it becomes increasingly urgent to ensure that for these infringements there is a rapid, effective and transparent opportunity for action and a procedural order available to those concerned. The rules of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code provide protection against violations of the right to image and audio recording. The current legislation makes clear the old Ptk. 80. § (1) and (2) by introducing a long-established and consequent interpretation of the judicial practice, that any notion of abuse includes the unauthorized production of the image itself or the recording. So it's not a fiction, it's not a political motivation, it's a judicial practice that's been crystallized over decades. The Ptk. Accordingly, it provides that not only the publication or other abusive use, distribution, production, reproduction or transmission of images or recordings, but also the preparation of such images without consent in itself, may be infringed. The Ptk. 248. In the case of an image or sound recording, the consent of the person concerned to either the preparation or the use of the recorded recording precludes the infringement, except for mass recording and the recording of public participation. I would also like to note here that the ominous case that our fellow Member projected for a football match is, of course, a mass recording. The consent will not be formalised under the proposal, so it can be done orally, in writing or with a binding attitude. At the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the protection of rights in this area in order to ensure that the legal protection of a person's privacy and individual elements is based on a solid basis, and not only on substantive legislation, but also through procedural legislation that enhances the effectiveness of enforcement. The proposal aims at the consistent implementation of the Ptk. provision ensuring the substantive protection of the right to image and audio recording, creating a separate procedural basis for the enforcement of this right of personality. III of the year on the Civil Procedure (Civil Procedure) In the event of a breach of the right to image and sound recording, a case may be brought under the general rules of the law in force. [[13.30]] However, due to the nature of the infringement, it is essential to respond and sanction within a short period of time, which is why the bill establishes a separate procedure for the effective enforcement of these rights. I ask this House to support T/3018. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the KDNP.]]
u2015-02-18-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman László Lukács, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-02-18-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I will also go through tabloid interpretation here, that if my fellow Member, László Vigh, has agreed to the tabloid interpretation, using the words of the Secretary of State. In his grand speech, László Vigh, which could be included in the publication section of his CV, because there I saw that he was still incomplete, could also publish this excellent information he shared; it seems that we are present at the birth of a standing star. So I am going to make tabloid interpretation of this kind myself, but first of all, it must be stated that, of course, the Jobbik Hungary Movement has a commitment to the protection of personal rights, and there is also a place in the protection of personal rights for such legal instruments. However, it is also important to consider whether, indeed, as the MSZPs have mentioned, we are meeting with personalised legislation. There are many signs in recent times in which Fidesz, who is close to Fidesz, is not a politician, but individuals of their family or family, seem to have more and more to hide, and they seem to want to hide not only their declarations of property, but also their photos now. Perhaps there will never again be a princess on the otherwise less popular 444.hu website, portrayed as a Disney princess and a princess, for example, by Rachel Orbán, who, based on her own recordings, is champagne with her friends in the royal box at the Hungarian State Opera House, so you will now erase such unikums from everyday life here. So I think that there is something that is pointing in the direction of personalised legislation, but it also points in the direction of many things stuck to procedural issues, but it is not leaving the substantive issues behind that the government wants to react to a certain age or time by bringing this proposal here and by adding such a special procedure to Pp. But this, in my view, is not going to be the timeline, but the past, because it seems very much that the freedoms and the personality rights that we want to protect - the integrity and image of the person and his right to voice recording - are not pointing to this narrowing limit in the past period, but rather to the relaxation of these boundaries on the line of technological developments, and in many cases we are already giving a good example, and a lot of legislation is fighting to find a legal response to these challenges that are otherwise suited to people's habits, as it seems that the custom is moving in a completely different direction, and it looks very much like that, with this which we now wish to come forward, we are giving rather than a good example, but rather an example that cannot keep up with information technology, smart devices, phones, computers. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] So it really seems that we're a little out of time, and we can safely say that maybe we're already in the Ptk. He was also out of time, and with a different dogmatic foundation, obviously, he started with the integrity of rights, and approached him on a constitutional line rather than, by the way, approached him with a sticky approach to practice. In the case of practice, I would also note here that our fellow Member Vejkey was talking about crystallized practice and judicial practice, but I believe that crystallized practice is not up to date in this respect, as we have constantly seen those loopholes, whether public or private, that the Curia - formerly the Supreme Court - was able to oppose itself. So it seems that there is a dynamic interpretation of the law on which we are going to tie another shackle, and I do not think that - and that is my position - we are not going to let ourselves get involved with a new or more innovative process or with a more innovative interpretation of the law. Just think about the challenges that social media, for example, will offer. In social media, users use it voluntarily, so to speak, if they are not public actors, but they become community actors, not only among their friends, but also among their friends' acquaintances, and even so that they themselves are very often unable to do what they can do, because the rules generate an extremely complex algorithm for how their portraits appear or how the images they publish appear. In essence, it is not certain that the frameworks that are now present in social media or information technology, for example, can pass a test of such legislation, and what I see in it is an ongoing abuse opportunity for those who would otherwise like to sue anyone personally or even out of a vendetta. So I would like to draw attention first of all to the fact that perhaps technology and customs - and even here we can safely submit to the custom - seem to be moving in a completely opposite direction, it is entirely obvious that both by the former and by the Constitution and by the Ptk. The integrity of rights protected by it is loosening and transforming. I've been thinking the whole time I've been preparing for this, that sooner or later we're gonna have to find a solution to this, and maybe the Ptk. its subsequent amendment should also be initiated in such a direction. I trust that, in the Ministry of Justice, they will also follow the changes in these customs, the challenges posed by modernity, and sooner or later they will become incorruptible in the Ptk., as it is very important, as in the old Ptk. it has also been very difficult to deal with new legal institutions and private law, see the question of insurance, as is the case with the current Ptk. It will also be very difficult to deal with the legal institutions that will result from modernity. The problem is also in the undisclosed picture-making process, as, obviously, Secretary of State said that it was a tabloid interpretation that you can't take pictures on the street - and what if someone does take pictures and still publish them? Obviously, the picture was taken, he did not ask permission, as he could ask permission from those around him, and then automatically post it in social media, not in one place, in several places, using Instagram, Twitter and other such, social media opportunities. But I wonder what kind of question... I'm just going to ask you a question that's worth answering. For example, could the court party or the person who goes into the bank be right and say that I forbid them to record me? Will the bank have a legitimate interest in recording everyone for its safety? But can you be right, say, for a retailer with a much smaller capacity to take such recordings, or what are you going to do with returning and renegade guests who are going to say that I know that I have the right not to record me? Or could the smartphone user be right, or could the taxi driver or the private car driver be right when he makes recordings? After all, unauthorized recording is also included in this category, due to the strict consequences of which Pp. On the basis of its sanction and its follow-up, let's just say sanction - although that is not the correct wording - there will be a fee for damages, which will automatically come. Therefore, it will not or will not depend on the gravity of the infringement in this case. So here is a very interesting impact option, which will have to be answered on the ground of modernity, much later, or perhaps not so late, at Ptk. level and not at Pp. level. If we are talking about procedural rules, it may also be possible, in the case of the development of a protected legal instrument, to ask whether such protection is justified, whether it is justified, if possible, to give two or even, three procedural options, because there is this special procedure of the Pp., in which there are so-called two stages that can be used to avert the dispute, so to say, but there is another general possibility which is also not affected by the special procedure, the protection of personality under the general rules. Is it perhaps appropriate to extend, for example, the possibility of seeking such a long time, in such a rapidly changing medium as social media? Because according to the current rules, it may be possible that if you enforce it on this basis, we have laid down good strict rules for it with relatively short deadlines, but your general right to seek remains much longer. So, who's gonna stand the test of, for example, the fact that someone's photograph of years ago - and then, obviously, from now on, this is years ago, so in the span of two or three years - who's gonna stand the test of time by saying, in terms of the corrupt relationship, that I didn't want you to publish it, and now I'm gonna sue you because the relationship between us is broken? Because it can give... - and perhaps one of its greatest challenges, the current Pp rules could give rise to the very simple and precisely disadvantageous application of these by some litigious parties, whether by double possibility or even by the burden of proof, let's say. And don't tell anyone that everyone is in the search for civilized rights, as they are also under my own practice, but I also think that based on your practice, there were those who are certainly notorious litigators who are going through this, and there are dozens of such lawsuits that can be expected, and practically almost by harassment, can be submitted on the basis of this substantive and otherwise helpful civil procedural rules. [[13.40]] The other problem we have raised and signaled is the serious difficulty of the burden of proof, which, by the way, almost encodes the loss of lawsuit. So it seems that it will result in almost 98 percent loss of lawsuits for those who made the recording, because he will have to prove his consent, and that the other party has given his consent, and who will stand before the court in this very difficult situation. So, almost in procedural law, the loss of lawsuit will be encoded, and it is also coded that the rights can be exercised abusively. The other thing I was talking about was case law. I believe that in image protection there is not only crystallisation or unbreakableness, but rather uncertainty, and advice of different compositions, courts of different compositions, tribunals in different legal applications and different interpretations of the law in this case. So it is very serious, I think we need clarity, which, I say again, could be done by complying with modernity. Overall, there is no doubt that protection of personality rights is absolutely necessary, but it would be important for such tools of privacy protection to be able to detect the timely challenges that arise from modernity, and beyond accepting and supporting the current Pp. rules or Pp. We should consider, for example, how to improve the protection of images and sounds in material law, and how to close or eliminate abusive practices, for example, in civil proceedings, where it would be an excellent proposal to divide the burden of proof more evenly and to transfer some of the burden of proof to the injured party, in this case also to the side of the party that brought the case, which would prevent abusive exercise. Therefore, Jobbik can support this proposal in the event and in the hope that it will be applied within a reasonable framework, not by individual legislation, and that citizens seeking their rights will not be abused because these dangers are hidden within this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-96	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Répássy Robert.
u2015-02-18-97	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I thought I'd like to speak after the lead speakers, and I think there's still a lead speaker. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-18-98	All right. Thank you. Then I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-02-18-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The bill before us has caused quite a stir in the press, and it is definitely a situation that has been going on for some time in Hungary. The legislator, with the new Ptk. practically two years ago, has regulated a situation to which a separate procedural background has been added in the current bill, which virtually accelerates the procedures through which the new Ptk can be enforced. measures taken by the Commission. So, what is proposed before us is basically a separate procedure for enforcing the right to image and audio recording and, above all, the speed of this procedure. The criticisms have been clear to the country for a long time on procedural rules. On the one hand, it's the new Ptk. provides for the need for its consent at the time of recording. This contribution is understandablely rather difficult to obtain in advance, and, even if it is possible, it has a major impact on the effectiveness of photography, which in fact jeopardises the substance of press photography, i.e. freedom of the press. Another important circle of objections was the idea that a so - called selfie about us could be a violation if there were different people, faces of strangers, whose permission was not requested to take the photo. However, it is a fact that, indeed, two years ago, in the new Ptk., the measures that have already covered the problem of recording have entered into force, in the event that there is no authorisation to do so. The above criticisms can be agreed in the sense that if there is an incorrect application of law, it already exists, if this bill is adopted, a procedural background that in the so-called disguise of private security, public image and audio recordings may be removed by those who believe so. From this point of view, it is important that the Constitutional Court has made it clear last autumn - and this may be important guidance, say for the courts - that if the photo is taken in a public place, linked to a public-interest report, it is not offensive, it depicts the person concerned objectively, it can be prepared and made public without permission. The LMP's position is that the new Ptk. Its controversial rule must also be interpreted in this regard, so that it cannot lead to a withdrawal in the area of freedom of the press. However... - and I would add right now that we have a number of serious concerns about this bill, and we also feel that criticism is absolutely justified, because, quite simply, as long as there is no guarantee that the public figure exercising the public authority will tolerate more, the criticisms, who therefore acts in public power, are justified, and we believe that we have the right to identify that person under all possible circumstances. This example has been raised in connection with the police that took care of it. It's completely nonsensical and unviable that if, let's say, there's a procedure, so someone's being probed when he's driving his car, then the cop has to introduce himself, give his exact signal, and say hello at the time of the day. It is completely unviable that if you have to do all this, then why can't your face be seen on any recording, especially because it is a public authority person acting on behalf of the public authority. Moreover, if we look around Europe for a little while, we can see that, for example, in Germany, we do not need the authorisation of the person concerned when it comes to a public figure. In Italy, there is no need for the consent of the person represented if the use of his image is justified by the quality of his public figures, by his state officials or by the functioning of the justice system. There's no need in Poland either. So I could give you a long list of examples, but let's look at how Hungarian law provides for this. And here, in my opinion, is a very important point of this whole regulation, and the fact that the so-called categorization of public appearance in Hungary is not properly ciphered. In this regard, the Possibly Other in Politics is already the Ptk. the amendments tabled in the debate, which include more detailed rules for public actors. I think that until this situation is clarified, very serious uncertainties and violations may arise if the honourable ministry continues on this path. The new Ptk. states that the exercise of fundamental rights to ensure the free debate of public affairs may restrict the protection of the personal rights of public actors to a necessary and proportionate extent, without prejudice to human dignity. It's the same Ptk. a few sections below also state that the consent of the data subject is not necessary for the preparation of the recording and for the use of the recorded recording in the case of mass recording and public participation. However, it is regrettable, and here are the problems, that the concept of a public actor as such is not defined or labeled in civil law. What we are talking about here is that the various personality lawsuits of the past years have shown that the status of the public figure has very different aspects. I can give you extreme examples. For example, there was a case in which a common representative of the condominium came to court because he believed that his activities were unfairly criticized by the residents of the house. In this case, the Metropolitan Court quite rightly held that the common representative of the condominium is a kind of public figure in the inner life of the condominium, and must therefore tolerate criticism more. The situation is different again, of course, when it comes to public figures who do not exercise any public authority, such as media stars or, when it comes to Members of Parliament, government members. The quality of the public actors is different when the activities of the public actors are carried out by a police officer. So we believe that, in civil law, these different activities and situations of life should be treated in a differentiated way, and that, through this, the application of the law should be in a different way to these different situations. It is also natural that, even in those cases, let us say, in the case of Members of Parliament, where the tolerance obligation is greatest, there is obviously a seed that is not a matter of public concern when it comes to the human dignity of a person or to his actions which are not related to public affairs. Of course, of course, that's safe. However, it is clear that, as long as there is no such regulation, there is very little room for further proposals and that, therefore, the criticisms that are being formulated in connection with the present procedure cannot be avoided. [[13.50]] Until this is regulated, these criticisms stop, the concerns are justified. Returning: the right to the image of police officers is a veterinary example of regulatory shortcomings and shortcomings in the application of law. Last autumn, the Constitutional Court defended the freedom of the press with an important decision against the absurd judicial practice that allowed recordings of the acting police officer to be published only with the consent of the police officer concerned. However, the previous legal unit decision setting out the judicial practice overruled by the Ab decision remains in the legal system, so there is still uncertainty on this issue, which has still not been decided. All in all, I can tell you that as long as there is no guarantee that the public who exercises public authority will tolerate more, the criticisms are justified. And if you act in public power, we have the right to identify you. That's what the law needs to guarantee. Once again, I would like to commend to you the Ptk. modifiers that used to be the Ptk. We have submitted you in connection with your debate. This would, in our view, be quite reassuring to regulate public figures and, from then on, to protect the private sector without giving rise to abuses or restrictions on the freedom of the press, and to avoid misunderstandings. However, until this happens, a number of criticisms on this proposal will stop. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-100	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Répássy Robert.
u2015-02-18-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have asked for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, because I would like to convince you of the right objectives of the bill, and I would like to convince you that this proposal is for good purposes. I do not see so much distance between our positions, and I understand that they are suspicious of any bill that could affect freedom of the press, freedom of expression and public debate in general. But it is very important to say that this bill does not change the substantive rules, does not change the rules of abuse of image and sound recording. This proposal contains only procedural rules, on the one hand. On the other hand, the bill does not change the rules on public actors. Public actors must continue to tolerate more, and the judicial practice on public figures will certainly not change this bill, but it can lead judicial practice in a completely different direction. What has been said by Congressman Bárándy, I must reject it, not because of its style, but because of its content. I can tell you that the assumption that you said that politics protects you or that this law is personalized, I will tell you all about it - and you will feel free to ask me - that whoever hopes for it will be disappointed that this law is tailor-made. Whoever's hoping for that, whatever side they're sitting on, they don't have any hope. This bill does not solve problems that can annoy some of the actors of public life. This bill specifically allows civil material law to be enforced, the civil code that has been in force for almost a year and which is based on a civil code, the new civil code, is based on decades of judicial practice. We conducted this debate, and practically during the parliamentary debate of the Civil Code, and later on when it came into force, the question of how to take pictures from now on and whether there are new conditions for drawing images. There are no new terms. No! In the use of the image, judicial practice has already included, of course, asking permission to make it. Thus, judicial practice has been consistent with the fact that the image cannot be used because no permission was requested. This is how judicial practice has interpreted it so far. So all the civil code did was write down these rules. Please think about it, and it struck me that you said, Congressman Bárándy, that the law itself would be acceptable and eligible if - and there you said what excuses you had with it. Let us put aside who hope for new protection from this law in the future. Let us put this aside, but let us look at the number of victims, the number of people who may have been violated in their rights who would be helped by this law, so that the use of his image can be cured as soon as possible. You must know of cases where people, innocent people, especially young people, who are not public actors or their relatives, but who are completely ordinary people, are in a position to use their image outside their will. Excuse me, but because some Members are suspicious that people on the other side will be able to use it, should we not now help those underage people whose images are being used illegally on the Internet? Or should we not help those who are humiliatingly photographed and then posted? Well, why can't we help you? That's why we're here. The goal is, and I think we can agree on this, that this bill, at all, that the protection of images, the protection of privacy, respect for privacy, deserves the fact that Parliament uses the best possible means of protecting privacy. [[Attila Móring and Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs occupy their notary seats.]] What I really can tell you is that if you look back at the debates over the past few years, it was a constant problem that lawsuits like this were delayed, you can't get revenge quickly. By the time the image was removed from that place, such as an Internet storage space, many had already taken over and caused numerous violations of these images. It is therefore understandable if the government proposes that a very quick solution and, if possible, a solution to the courts should be established by the Parliament. Press law has already invented rules for correction, correction rules have been in place for decades; similarly, similar rules for the abuse of image can be introduced in a separate procedure and these violations can be quickly and effectively rectified. But I trust that not all of these cases will reach the court. The aim of the Ministry is to propose a solution that does not necessarily cause a dispute. Once again, I do not wish to wipe out your criticisms, but I would just like to say that there are appropriate criticisms. If you think that there is a problem, for example, with the original regulation itself, it must, of course, not be resolved in the civil procedure, but in the Ptk. It's just that I'd be very careful with this device. I said that in the civil code debate, and I will say that the new civil rules of the abuse of image, the new rules of the Ptk., were not put into the new Ptk on the proposal of the government, but the pre-law committee of professors came up with these rules, and they suggested that it be regulated in this way. Both the theoretical basis for this and the practical basis for the judiciary have been established for decades, and for decades, it has been observed how this area of law is regulated - not on the government's proposal. That is why I must refuse that there is any political intention, personal legislation, because this proposal was submitted to Parliament by the government, literally and without change, by the committee which prepared the civil code and led by Lajos Vékás. That is why I am asking that we do not accuse each other here of various personalised legislation. In this case, the abuse of image, as I said, formed a professional consensus, and such laws were created from this professional consensus. However, the Civil Procedure still needs to create effective instruments for the Ptk. the implementation of its rules. Finally, not even closing the debate because I spoke to him so that it could be argued that everyone could be in that situation, even public figures could be in a position to use their image illegally. When such a case may become a dispute, they will treat us differently, with public figures, because obviously we will have to tolerate more. We are fully aware of that. But I'm not sure we all want pictures of underage children to be used illegally, and I'll say it again, regardless of whose child it is. [[14.00]] So I am not asking you to put aside your political aspects, but I am asking you to try to look at these cases of abuse from the point of view of innocent victims. Unfortunately, the Parliament has not yet found an antidote to the abuse of the image. The fact that lawsuits can be brought does not in any way constitute an effective and rapid remedy in these cases under the circumstances of today. Only such an accelerated procedure, such a separate procedure, may constitute a minimum remedy. Because, of course, such a 30-day deadline and, even during further court proceedings, countless violations can be committed with an image, and the abuse of the image can unfortunately be repeated by the time it reaches the decision. But even so, we would at least give the opportunity to improve the ethical rules of photography and even the publication of the image in Hungary. It seems that these rules are so flexible, so loose that almost no one respects them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-18-102	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács in a two-minute comment.
u2015-02-18-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In response quickly to what the Secretary of State said: if the goal you have said is to make such rules in order to protect the more vulnerable and the younger age groups, of course we will bow to it, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary supports these actions. However, it cannot be silenced that if that is really our goal, there will be a problem with this procedure, because in my view it is not quick enough. Then we'd need more speed than that. 'Cause if anyone's ever sued, and they know what it's like to be out-of-court, it's different from court to court. So in court, I'd like to see what kind of extraordinarily they're going to negotiate. As you said, during the period open, where appropriate within 30-40 days, what further infringements will be committed and what further infringements will be caused. We also know that the courts themselves are facing challenges, so it is not certain that they will be able to respond very quickly to the externality, by the way. Therefore, this must be considered, because it may be necessary to introduce an even faster procedure than the change of course at the time. Those were pretty quick lawsuits, some kind of lawsuit could speed this up. Well, I'm still saying that the burden of proof should be distributed more evenly. Secondly, if it is really important for us to protect minors, young people or even vulnerable people, other sanctions should also be taken into account, because in this case the court will be able to impose a maximum penalty or the termination of the infringement. But how can you eliminate the infringement if you cannot give instructions to anyone to make the site unavailable, or to make the Facebook profile or social profile, or to make any image unavailable by the service provider when many times the service providers themselves cannot investigate where they are? So we should also answer these questions, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-18-104	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a normal time frame.
u2015-02-18-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to respond to Mr Secretary of State that I can only say that if this were really the law, as you have just said, this would be the intention to protect minors and those who become victims of this, then you can agree with him, and you can only welcome the fact that this has finally been born. But it is not understandable that anyone has been consulted, with the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights or with the Mansion, has not been included in the draft government legislation, and the draft could not be considered. So, this is when you think about what's happened over the past few years, which has encouraged you to discuss this quickly. My fellow Member has already said in his speech what the events have been that we think are going to sit here and discuss this bill. The Secretary of State said that he refused to express personalised legislation, refused to restrict freedom of speech, or also refused to defend himself in politics. Well, then, I would like to draw your attention to an event that took place today. Employees at the Ministry of Human Resources received an e-mail alerting them to what terms and phrases used in everyday life cannot be used for workers from today. These terms include poverty, extreme poverty, child poverty, equal opportunities, caregiver, caregiver, invalid, pregnant, disabled and stadium. Now, one wonders why a worker cannot use the basic words used in everyday life, used in Hungarian. And it's gonna have to be replaced by words like this, like, needy, needy, disabled, instead of stadium, it's a sports facility. I'd like to read you a simple sentence, which we used to use, how we say it now. Child-waiting poor people, let's just say, as we use them a lot in everyday life, can't afford pregnant poor people because of stadium construction. Now, this is how we're going to say it from now on, which is how the people working in the EMMI are going to say: there is no money because of the sports facilities covered by the blessed needy. You know, Mr. Secretary, this is when it comes to what's going to happen next, what law we're going to have, say, next week in Parliament. Let's say a law will be passed on the table as to how the violation of the great leader will be banned from now on in the next few weeks, whether in the National Assembly for the workers, for the ministerial workers, or perhaps for the ordinary man. So, don't be surprised if we're asking questions here, and we don't believe as Members what you said here, that they really only want to protect young children or people who are exposed to not giving their names to take pictures. Believe me, they always give you a reason to think other than what's coming out of your mouth. I think that every time you say it, you're gonna deny yourself what you've said here. If this news hadn't been published today, perhaps it would have been believable here, Mr. Secretary of State. It's just, you know, every day you're shocked at what else you can come up with to cover up reality. Just one, Mr. Secretary, accept me. In order not to say poverty, or to prohibit certain people from saying that poverty, child poverty, is still the case in Hungary. That doesn't mean you can't hide reality. I think that we should legislate as we can expect from Fidesz-KDNP, and not as personalised, not as politics protects itself, and not as anyone gets hurt, or as events happen to you every day, and that's what you want to hide with certain laws. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-18-106	I now give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-02-18-107	Thank you for the floor. It was very funny what you said, but it had nothing to do with the bill. I suppose you can feel that, too. This particular EMMI vocabulary, which is used in all countries of the world, is called political correctness, so what are the words that can be used, for example, for people with disabilities or even for poverty. This is taught, taught, and especially the politicians are equipped with these terms in the name of political correctness all over the world. Maybe I wouldn't have done it the way the EMMI did, but for example, in the judicial field, there are some terms that, let's just say, aren't politically correct. For example, criminal law calls the subject of criminal proceedings a burden. Just because someone's being called burdened doesn't mean we can't think of him as a suspect. Now, I think there's room for political correctness. I have not yet read this glossary of the EMMI, but it could even be proposed for Members of Parliament to use certain politically correct words. [[14.10]] So that's how many minutes it took, and I don't want to worry about what you said anymore, because I don't think it's related to the bill. In particular, there is no reason why, if the MSZP knows that this bill, as Congressman Bárándy said, would be acceptable and eligible, why is the MSZP not supporting it? That's because a letter like that appeared in the EMMI. That's about what I understand from what you said. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No, you misunderstood very much!]]
u2015-02-18-108	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2015-02-18-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, for participating in the civilised debate, and not in the end, as a closing point. This is a relatively rare experience, and I wanted to say thank you. For my part, I see enough ground in what Gergely Bárándy said so that we do not lose everything he has to say, and, obviously, the actual policy has so much to do with legislation that we bring in some political aspects. For my part, I am very pleased that the MSZP has recognised the problem of personalised legislation. I remember when he changed his statutory school education to appoint a secretary of state for one or two state ministers, just so he could appoint his own people. There was also personalised legislation, and it is very, very good that you are dealing with this problem on the other side, because in the future it might be avoided. Mr Secretary of State began his speech following the keynote speakers to convince us that this is a good proposal to take into account that this was written with good intentions. I would like you to convince us that this is the most important thing in the civil order that we must now deal with, that there is nothing else in the civil order that is now required by practice and experience. If you were to convince me that there is nothing else at present in the application of this legislation and in judicial practice, in the system of civil litigation, it would be at least as important. Because the problem with this legislation is that Fidesz regularly does things that can be agreed with one purpose, whatever the motivation is, and then pours it down with such a mash, as the vulnerability of young people has just been said, because at times, minors, lame dogs, and everything that inspires empathy, as an argument, but there is always a background. It is about the indirect and direct impact that a change in legislation will have on society. For me, when I first saw - I am not a lawyer, I asked for the opinion of our lawyers - my first idea was not to limit the possibility of detecting crimes against the purity of public life, not to create so many recordings, and not to go after public figures even when they appear to be engaging in private activities. What came up after that, which our lead speaker was talking about, is that I would be very happy to see, at some point, that the concept of the public figure would then be very, very thoroughly, detailed and widely defined, because the question is who we consider to be. Because things that threaten the purity of public life do not necessarily happen in the case of State Secretarys and Ministers, but in the case of simple official rapporteurs it is equally risky, one employee, one government official, can do so at any low level, and the public appearance of all of these can endanger the order of the public as well as the order of a State Secretary or Minister. As a result, the broad definition of public figures and the form in which they appear in this legislation, whether in private or in public life, would make it easier to vote in favour of the whole with a good heart. The most important thing that Mr Luke also mentioned was that I had this concern, too, after seeing many of these cases at different levels, how this would create the possibility of misuse of rights. So will the adoption of this legislation not result in a multitude of such lawsuits, which will continue to burden the courts that are already overwhelmed, and how much will some of them be justified? This system of abuse of rights is very, very interesting, which is also not very concerned with civil procedure, although in many cases we have seen that different strategic litigations against social participation can take place on the basis of such legislative stages. In many cases, we see the efforts of civil society organisations, civil activists, dealing with public life, trying to make it impossible for the target group to hide behind such legislation by trying to prevent, intimidate and confiscate the capacity of those concerned. And can this legislation not have such an effect? So, overall, I did not want to debate the goals, and I did not want to call into question the political will, but to point out that if Parliament had already dealt with civil policy, it would have been a great chance to find more important points concerning daily practice, and if it had been beyond that, then the more detailed definition and more detailed definition of this would have been that, later on, different courts would not have interpreted the application of these sections with the perceived and presumed intention of the legislator, it might have been better. Obviously, if our group has a motion or a proposal in this direction, our experts will do so, but I did not want to question the good intentions, I just wanted to draw attention to the problems that I had in mind when amending the draft legislation. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2015-02-18-110	I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey for two minutes.
u2015-02-18-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond very briefly to the suggestion made by the MSZP Member. The example of the caller is limping somewhere. [[Anita Herring: Why?]] My position is that if Hungarian women are expecting a baby, I prefer the definition of a blessed woman rather than simply being pregnant. As a Christian Democrat, I believe that women usually experience pregnancy as a blessed state, not as a burden. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-112	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if there's any intention to comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes for a two-minute comment.
u2015-02-18-113	Thank you very much for the floor. I think that the most shocking thing about this list is, however, the word "studio" any way you look at it. So that what's burned into people's heads is that you've actually been building stadiums all over the country, instead of otherwise giving more money to feed children, for example, so that, say, children can be provided with food everywhere, and that they can help the poor more than build stadiums everywhere. I think the most outrageous thing is that they're trying to get an expression out of the EMMI right now that's embarrassing for you. We get it. It's called a stadium. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-114	If there is no further intention to comment, the debate will be closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Répássy Robert nodds.]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-02-18-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will only comment briefly, since I have spoken several times. Dear House, Again, I ask you to look at the objectives of the bill. I did not feel conflicting with your comments with the objectives of the bill, so the bill is basically for good purposes, which can be established after this debate. Of course, it is a different question as to who stands on the bill in the vote. In any case, please accept that this bill does not change the rules of the abuse of image, does not change the rules of civil law that have been applied in judicial practice for decades. This bill merely makes legal protection and redress more effective, and those who suffer the abuse of image can expect us to create such effective laws for their protection. That is why I am asking for this House's support. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-116	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposed law on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and amending certain laws in this regard until closure. The submission is T/2250. , can be found on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-02-18-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At present, there is no competitive alternative to nuclear energy in Central Europe, which is why Hungary has committed itself in the national energy strategy to the long-term use of nuclear power in order to ensure that its energy supply is properly ensured. [[14.20]] This includes an additional 20 years extension of the current nuclear power plant blocks, the extension of the Hungarian Parliament's 2014 II nuclear power plant capacity. The implementation of the Russian-Hungarian Interstate Convention, as set out in the Act. The validity of the objective set out in the above-mentioned Convention, the maintenance of nuclear power plant capacity, is confirmed by a series of energy experts, and by researchers as well as the direction of future global energy use. It is enough to mention that the 2014 International Energy Agency, which is a body of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation considered to be relevant in economic and other forecasts and sufficiently western, made the following conclusions on the future and economic impact of nuclear energy. It also reduces competitiveness and energy security by reducing nuclear power in Europe. The low share of nuclear power makes electricity more expensive, reducing competitiveness in many industries, such as aluminium, glass and steel. The competitiveness of these industries should be measured towards Asia, where the share of nuclear power in electricity generation is constantly increasing. The development of the Hungarian nuclear power plant is to be welcomed, as it reduces energy imports and thus makes the country's power supply safer. This is what the energy agency has said about the Hungarian nuclear power plant investments. Cheap energy produced by nuclear power plants is the key to a successful Hungarian future, as this ensures the competitiveness of the economy. In Hungary, the maintenance of nuclear power plant capacity, the creation of new nuclear power plant blocks are of national importance and is essential for the security of energy supply. This is supported by the regulation to facilitate investment in the maintenance of capacity, which ensures an effective administrative procedure. The bill before you consists of two parts. The first contains investment-specific provisions related to capacity-building itself, and the second contains the necessary amendments to the nuclear energy law. The first part of the bill creates legislation that is consistent with them, taking into account international requirements. It also takes into account the need for increased safety requirements and, on the basis of international experience, physical and national security requirements. To this end, it shall attach to a site-security certificate the right to all subcontractors involved in the investment. On the basis of international experience, it has become necessary to ensure that the interests of potentially mass workers are sufficiently guaranteed, and the bill also contains a specific rule adapted to this. The amendments to the Authority's authorisation procedure were essentially due to the last nuclear power plant in Hungary in the 1980s. The licensing rules in the Nuclear Power Act provide an adequate guarantee that a prepared authority can carry out the authorisation procedure for the establishment of new blocks and for the expansion of old ones, following the principle of maximum security. This is the purpose of the bill, according to which the tasks of the General Construction Authority are integrated into the tasks of the National Atomic Energy Office. With the right pay, the National Atomic Energy Office can compete for the best professionals, and the licensing authority has a longer period of time to shorten the overall duration of the authorisation procedure. In accordance with the international treaty, while respecting the basic legislative framework, the French authorisation procedure is based on the experience of determining the interests limiting the disclosure of data. With regard to the disclosure of data, I stress that environmental procedures to be conducted by environmental authorities are not covered by the law. An environmental impact assessment should therefore be carried out before any installation activity is started. Its rules are laid down in the environmental law and its implementing legislation, including allowing the public to know the environmental impact assessment documentation, to hold a public hearing, and to make available to the public the environmental information relevant to the granting of the environmental permit. The provisions on radiation protection tasks are essentially profile-cleaning, which is also accompanied by the strengthening of the Authority, as additional tasks will also be needed by additional government officials. The basis for the changes to the profession is the legislative consideration that Hungary does not have sufficient capacity, there are not enough experts to carry out the tasks related to the planning of the nuclear power plant. A high level of expertise in this exceptionally special field at the Chamber of Engineers does not provide professional control that would provide sufficient security guarantees. This control would be taken over by the authority which also has exclusive competence. However, the legislator intends to further strengthen this model, which leaves it to the authority to establish the professional competence of foreign qualified nuclear energy experts, by providing assistance to the Authority by an international technical advisory body independent of the authority and all experts in the field. Involvement of experts independent of designers also increases security guarantees for investment authorisation. Dear Parliament, To sum up, therefore, the bill before you proposes a regulation to ensure an effective administrative procedure to facilitate investment in the maintenance of capacity. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/2250. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-18-118	Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the keynote speakers will be held in the first round. In this context, I give the floor to Péter Cseresnyés, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-18-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us creates the possibility of creating the conditions for the first construction work of the Paks II project needed to expand the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and of removing bureaucratic or other objective obstacles to the investment. We have discussed the investment in Paks several times here in the House and beyond. Now allow me to briefly sum up the facts that we cannot pass if we are talking about the investment in Paks, Paks. Since 1983 the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been the determining factor, location and role of Hungarian electricity supply in domestic energy production. Today, the power plant accounts for almost 40 percent of the country's electricity demand and more than 50 percent of domestic electricity production. In the opinion of the vast majority of professionals, our nuclear power plant is one of the safest, most economical and most environmentally sound power plants. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the European Commission has declared our nuclear power plant one of the best performing power plants on the continent in the recent assessment of the so-called stress test. It is also essential from a climate protection point of view, since its operation does not involve CO2 emissions, not to mention that it has less specific environmental impact on the production of the installation than in comparison with other areas. According to some calculations, Paks blocks save the oxygen needs of two million people each year, i.e. the annual production of oxygen in Hungarian forests, by not releasing gases that cause the greenhouse effect to deepen. The social acceptance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been stable for many years, some three-quarters of the population, 78 percent in 2010 and 73 percent in 2011 agreed that there was a nuclear power plant in Hungary. [[14.30]] According to the representative opinion poll of the Nézőpont Institute at the beginning of 2014, 52 percent of the respondents considered it necessary to invest in capacity maintenance, 25 percent opposed it, and 23 percent could not or did not want to respond. This aid may also be due to the fact that people know that in 2013 the power plant covered 36,4 per cent of the domestic gross energy consumption, as I have already mentioned, and is far above the rest of the sources, including electricity imports. Paks' role in domestic electricity generation is even more pronounced: more than half of the electricity produced in Hungary - exactly 50.7 percent - comes from nuclear energy. This proves the domestic importance of this energy source, but we have to face the fact that the possibility of operating all of the current nuclear power plant blocks will cease to exist around 2032 and 2037. As a result, as Minister Lázár said on Monday, more than 6 000 of the 90,000 megawatts of electricity produced in our country will be lost by the time of 2032-2030, as the technologies and power plants that produce it will become obsolete. Thus, we need to produce nearly 7,000 megawatts of capacity, but we are still only producing part of the country's needs, and we are expected to produce only about 30 percent of the country's needs with the nuclear power plant capacity. In parallel, Hungarian electricity consumption is, of course, constantly increasing. It is therefore clear that provision should be made for replacement of lost production and to meet growing demands. In this respect, two factors need to be examined: electricity imports and domestic future power plant capacities. We must take into account that our country's electricity imports have been growing ever since 1995. In 2013, the import rate in total consumption reached 28,19 per cent, i.e. close to a third of the total electricity demand. This import rate is three times that of five years ago. In addition to the evolution of imports, it is also necessary to take into account the future supply analysis of the Hungarian electricity system. The analysis of Mavir showed that, in contrast to the increase in electricity demand, only around half of current power plant capacity will remain by 2030. This value also includes the capacity of the nuclear power plant of 2 thousand megawatts, which will expire in 2037 and will require the installation of some 6300 megawatts of new capacity in the next 20 years. It is clear that two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant cannot replace the lost capacities on its own. It follows, therefore, that other production units are also needed, as I have already mentioned. From 2032 onwards, until 2037 the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's off-site blocks should be stopped, which will leave the electricity generation, which may result in a lack of energy in Hungary if measures are not taken by then and, for example, as a result of the investment. An alternative way to complement capacity could be to increase already high imports. However, this could lead to systemic problems in the medium to long term and to a reduction in the sovereignty of the country. This is why we have set ourselves the goal of making new domestic investments instead of increasing imports, and this is also what Paks II investment serves. Environmental aspects are often mentioned in connection with the Paks investment. Our dispute partners usually suggest why it is not possible to replace the loss of capacity with renewable energy. One of the important reasons for this is that our country's potential for renewable energy use is primarily in the heating sector, where environmental, natural and economic sustainability priorities are achieved. This is reflected in the composition of our current renewable energy use, with 76 percent heating and cooling, 15 percent electricity production and 9 percent transport. According to the data provided by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, between 2009 and 2013, the individual power generation capacities changed as follows, in addition to the ever-increasing production and support payments. The built-in performance of wind energy increased by 62 percent. Our country has also made significant progress in the PV photovoltaic use of solar energy, as in 2009 the solar power utilisation of only 1 megawatts increased to 34 megawatts in 2013, of which 32 megawatts consists of the contribution of around 4800 small power plants of exactly 4855 domestic size. It also shows that the government is committed to strengthening energy production from renewable sources and to increasing energy efficiency in addition to preparing for the Paks expansion. According to the objectives set by the European Union, by 2020, at least 13 percent of the total energy used in Hungary should come from renewable energy. However, Hungary has made even more serious commitments by increasing the share of renewable energies to 14.65 per cent by 2020. This also means that Hungary can spend HUF 2000 billion of more than HUF 10 000 billion on energy efficiency and climate change developments in the next six years. But already in recent years, a number of programmes have been implemented to increase energy efficiency and the share of energy from renewable sources. The solar cell plant in Csorna is expected to start production in the second half of 2015. The government here supports the construction of the solar plant by HUF 1 billion. Of course, we cannot go without saying why the opposition, especially the MSZP and Together, is going against the Paks enlargement, and why they are not supporting it now. However, on 26 February 2010 Paks, the Hungarian Electricity Company Zrt., visited the heads of government of Gordon Bajnai. At his appointed board meeting, he also gave an interview to the Tolna County People's Journal. In this he says:. The essence of the Lévai project is to double the performance of the Paks power plant after 2020. He also said that we took a big step on the road that will allow Hungary to have a safe, cheap and clean energy source.. Attila Mesterházy said on 26 February 2010 that the MSZP supported the extension and extension programme of the nuclear power plant in particular. We hope that, in time, opposition parties will also admit that Paks enlargement is a common national interest and will accordingly support the legislative changes needed for the investment. Now allow me to say a few words about the bill. The bill consists of two parts. The so-called project law includes provisions on investment, thus paying particular attention to the provisions governing civil law, employment and access to data. The second, most of it is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. It contains amendments to the Act and related amendments to the Law on Construction and National Property. The legislative intention is that, following the installation of the recovered 5th and 6th nuclear power plant blocks, the two companies, Paks I. Zrt. and the Paks II. Zrt. A single State-owned company shall carry out the tasks related to the investment through its merger. It is an important element of the project law of the bill that the business and sub-contracting contract can only be concluded by an entity or organisations that hold a so-called site security certificate. [[14.40]] The security certificate is the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. by law, it shall be issued by the competent body, the National Security Inspectorate. The existence of a site-security certificate guarantees that information, data, technical and other documentation generated in connection with the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should not fall into unauthorized hands, and should not jeopardise Hungary's national security and national security interests. The amendments, which constitute a major part of the Atv Amendment, aim at modernising the nuclear safety regulations, in part in the context of the government's intention to expand the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Data subjects have repeatedly indicated the need for a more flexible and rational administrative procedure. Accordingly, the National Atomic Energy Office will also carry out the tasks of the building authority. This also implies that the nuclear law is LXXVIII of 1997 on the formation and protection of the built environment. lex specialis as compared to law: the Atomic Energy Office conducts the construction process as a national body, so the review of the Authority's decision will only be possible by judicial means. It is used to improve efficiency by Atv. also changes to its new personnel sections. The aim is to provide the Atomic Energy Agency with the diverse expertise that can replace the technical assistance. It is proposed that the Office, as government officials of the Government Office, provides for a specific market remuneration similar to that of the employees of the Economic Competition Office. This will allow the employment of professionals with expertise, particularly engineering skills, which can compete with the impact of competition. The Atomic Energy Agency will be given greater freedom of decision with the amendments, but will also have greater responsibility. The proposal also streamlines the radiosanitary tasks previously overdivided and with several malfunctions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Therefore, the bill integrates the precise definition of radiation health and radiation protection tasks and the tasks related to radiation protection with the Atomic Energy Agency. The proposal also aims at institutional separation between radiation protection related to ionising radiation and the current shrouding area of radiation health, which is subject to the supervision of the use of nuclear energy. Finally, the bill amends the rules of the nuclear law on radioactive waste storage and temporary storage of radioactive waste. [[The president's ringing again.]] Dear House, If you consider it important to create legal conditions to ensure that the country's electricity needs are met in the long term, please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-120	I would ask my fellow Members to respect the 15-minute timeframe. Here comes Bertalan Tóth, lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-02-18-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is amazing and unsuitable, making the investment in Paks a hotbed of corruption. Besides, the history is already insufferable, I am thinking of the Orbán-Putin secret pact, or of the fact that feasibility and implementation agreements have been encrypted by the government, which still remain unknowable to the Hungarian public and to the Hungarian people. But before I turn to the opinion of the specific provisions of the bill: I listened with interest to the Secretary of State and my fellow Member's speech on how they could explain the unexplainable; how they could present a series of provisions that would completely dissuade the Hungarian people about this investment, and, as I mentioned earlier, make the Paks expansion a hotbed of corruption. You have been talking about the validity of the investment, most of all, my fellow Member, although this bill is not about that, this has already been debated by Parliament, the parties have expressed their views and opinions. So the energy and economic analysis we have heard here, I think, is far from this bill; it is no coincidence that after 11 minutes my fellow Member came to the bill. You are diverting attention from these speeches, because this bill is in many parts about what you have said, but it contains, to a large extent, outrageous and unacceptable provisions. I was curiously looking forward to Mr Secretary of State's speech as to how he would explain this bill, since he also contradicted his own words, because he had previously taken a very different position. And I also wanted to see if he could talk about Hungarian energy again, and we could get information that we learned from him two days ago in a situation like this, in case the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian people could finally learn something from the secrets. And what my fellow Member has said and explained is instructive, and it is most instructive for you, as he has said, how the Hungarian public has developed in recent years, the public's perception of this investment. If I recorded the numbers correctly here: 78 percent in 2010, 73 percent in 2011, who supported the Paks expansion, and then gave a figure that at the beginning of 2014 a representative survey showed that 52 percent. We can now talk about a reduction of more than 20-25 percent in support. And recently, a survey of the Media was published, commissioned by Green Peace, which showed that most Hungarians support renewable energy. And then there may be an answer to what you have said about who has previously taken a position in this: the social support of this matter has run out, my fellow Member, I do not have it. The other is why. Of course, there are a lot of professional debates and professional conferences on what the Hungarian energy supply should be like by the end of 2030. The Energiaklub, Green Peace, the government, various professional organisations and parties are also expressing their views on this. The biggest problem is that this is happening outside the political system. You often refer to a parliamentary decision of 2009, which was adopted by consensus by Parliament, but this resolution suggested that broad professional and social consultation is needed before the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, before that decision is taken. And here's to why we're running out of social support behind this project. That's because you're encrypting everything. They encrypted the implementation agreements, Viktor Orbán secretly concluded the Orbán-Putin pact in Moscow, and later certain details were published, and some details were not, for example, the feasibility studies that established this agreement, you said that this existed. No one has seen them, and even a court ruling has stated that these studies do not exist. And if they exist, that's what you're hiding. This is why the project has run out of social support. And then it's really going on with the bill. You have said that it consists of two parts, but only one part has been made known in a larger extent, because the part that is about denying all data contained in a contract relating to a main contractor, a sub-contractor, a customer, and all data contained in a contract for feasibility agreements can be disclosed on the basis of Hungary's national security interests; only courts, authorities and authorised bodies will be able to request data; the data on which the decision is based will be encrypted for 15 years. That is also what this proposal is about, isn't that what we have not heard very much about in the Secretary of State brochure and in the speaker's speech. Moreover, this investment is excluded from the scope of the Public Procurement Act: in the case of procurement under a separate procedure provided for in an international contract, in the case of investment under a contract concluded with a State outside the European Union, you do not consider that the Public Procurement Act should be applied. [[14.50]] Mr Secretary of State, allow me to confront you with your own words, which you said on 11 June 2014, and I will quote you literally. Please respectfully, according to the Hungarian laws in force, the investor, Rosatom, is obliged to select suppliers in public procurement procedures and to treat these suppliers in such a way that they act in accordance with the government decree providing subcontractors for this coverage management. Anyone who wants to know who's building it, who's the contractor, who's out there, who's the contractor, who's gonna be able to see it in public. So these things can be followed during the construction, the investment, the construction, so there is every chance that we can serve a transparent, clear and good purpose by adopting this bill - not the bill we discussed at the time, but the bill we discussed at the time - so I can suggest acceptance by KDNP. That's what you said. In comparison, he has now presented a bill - you have undertaken to present it and you ask for Parliament's support - which is in stark contrast with your words, excluding public procurement, excluding anyone from public interest data requests to know who is building this investment, who will be its subcontractors, what processes are taking place. Here I refer back to what I said at the beginning, that we should take advantage of the suspicion lawsuit, that there could be processes here that could make this investment a hotbed for corruption or that could make it a hotbed for corruption. That is why the Hungarian people do not trust you on this issue, and that is why the social support behind the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has run out; that is why. Obviously, as I have said, there are many other professional arguments, but you are disqualified from the debate, you are excluded from the discussions, you are not sitting down with civil society organisations, you are not sitting down with professional organisations to clarify these issues and you are not willing to hear the proposals of the various civil society organisations. In addition, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has also signalled regarding the restriction of access to data, because you have failed to agree this proposal in advance, and there are several directives and international obligations that can override this proposal, such as the EU Directive on Public Access to Environmental Information, the UN Convention on Public Participation in Decision-making in Environmental and Security Matters, which regulates this. You are completely ignoring this and completely excluding Hungarian people or anyone from the public interest to get to know this information. Freedom of information is regulated as a fundamental right by the Fundamental Law and even constitutes data relating to the management of public funds as data of general interest. Nevertheless, this bill narrows the validity of these fundamental rights without reference to a specific public interest or fundamental rights. It is therefore also raised that this proposal is against the law. As I mentioned, the Information Office also made an observation, which is the view that, even in the course of an ongoing administrative procedure, a possible request for data on so-called environmental data should be made. This proposal is, as I said, contrary to the info law and the Basic Law, contrary to the EU Directive, the UN Convention, and ignores these. Let me give you a few thoughts on the arbitration clause. Even at the beginning of their previous administration, you announced with a great deal of circumstantialism that, now, the arbitration procedure in matters relating to national property is completely excluded, this is an insufferable thing, when it comes to national property, in the case of a Hungarian court to decide, the arbitration, that is suspicious, should not interfere in these matters. In comparison, both the Paks agreement and our assumption is that the implementation agreement also contains or may contain a clause - because we were not allowed to get to know this agreement - which concludes an arbitration procedure. Here, data - which you are now encrypting for 15 years - are generated and created that are clearly part of national wealth under the Law of Property. That's what you're going to do with arbitration. Therefore, we assume that, if this clause is contained in this agreement or in these agreements - we do not know because it is secret - it also suggests that these provisions of the contract are null and void. So what you are doing with this investment is unacceptable, it is unacceptable, it is unacceptable, what you are doing, you are excluding the public, you are eliminating public procurement, and you are suggesting why the opposition parties or the various organisations that are protesting the investment, and you are surprised that your social support for this project will cease, without which I think that this cannot be achieved and must not be done. Once again, I would like to stress that, yes, we are living with the suspicion lawsuit, because there are many examples, I am thinking about the US ban case, I am thinking about MET Zrt. to offshore gas stores or even to the statements of ex-fidesz oligarch Lajos Simicska, if you can call it that. These all suggest that what you are doing in public investment in the European Union is suspicious, especially if you are encrypting everything, this investment is extremely suspicious. Three amendments are tabled by my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, to the bill. All three are about making the procedure public, getting to know the information about the investment, eliminating the secrecy, and if this investment is made at all, it should be transparent. You have swept our proposal off the table to have a case-by-case committee with parties, civilians, which oversees this investment, which has not been accepted. Please support our amendments, and you may not have to fear that the majority of Hungarian people, rather than the majority of Hungarian people, will not support this investment, this development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2015-02-18-122	I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-02-18-123	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You are wrong, Bertalan Tóth, my socialist fellow Member, when he says that the social support of the nuclear power plant would have run out. Honourable Congressman, Go to Tolna County, and you will see how hopeful the people who live there expect to start the construction, and not only because it gives at least ten thousand people new jobs, but also because if they recover, it is obvious that they will have a cheaper and clean energy, just like all residents of Hungary. Returning to the bill: the bill is closely linked to the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy adopted by Parliament. Act No. 7 Pursuant to paragraph 2 of § 2 of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, 25/2009 on the granting of a prior consent in principle for the construction of new nuclear power plant blocks A decision in which the Parliament gave its prior consent in principle to the establishment of new nuclear power stations in the territory of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. As a result, an international treaty was concluded between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the publication of the 2014 Convention on Cooperation in the Use of Nuclear Energy for Peace. We've declared you by law. The bill consists of two parts. The first so-called project law of the bill contains investment-specific provisions, thus paying particular attention to the provisions governing civil law, employment and access to data. [[15.00]] The second part of the bill is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. It contains amendments to the Act and related amendments to the Law on Construction and National Property Law. The title of the bill, the maintenance of the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, reflects the intention of the two companies, Paks I. Zrt., following the installation of the built 5th and 6th power plant blocks. and the Paks II. Zrt. a single State-owned company shall carry out the tasks related to the investment by means of its merger. The preamble also explicitly refers to the intention of the bill to comply with its agreement in principle given by the OGY Decision, but it does so by ensuring that it is in harmony with our commitments to the Convention and previous international treaties, EU expectations and EU law, as well as with the values, fundamental rights and interests set out in our Fundamental Law. The investment is carried out on the basis of so-called implementation agreements concluded under the Convention, in which the main contractor is the Russian party and the customer is the Hungarian party. It is an important element of the project law part of the bill that a business and a sub-contract can only be concluded by an entity that has a so-called site security certificate, given the fundamental nature of the investment. The site safety certificate is the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. under Act No 92/2010 on detailed rules for the issue of industrial safety control and site safety certificates. under the relevant rules of the government decree. The existence of a site-security certificate guarantees that information, data, technical and other documentation related to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant are not placed in unauthorized hands and that Hungary's national security and national economy interests are not compromised. LIII of 2006 on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major economic importance. The legislator does not wish to avail itself of the legislative possibility provided by law. The authorisation procedure for Paks capacity exploration is not an acceleration of the current regulatory procedural rules, but a key aspect of security itself. The amendments, which constitute a major part of the Atv. amendment, aim at modernising nuclear safety regulators and, in the context of the government's intention to expand the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, there is a strong need to make the regulatory procedure more flexible and streamlined in the context of the implementation of the investment. With the regulation, the application of the law has been made several times, according to which the National Atomic Energy Office is also responsible for the administrative tasks of the National Atomic Energy Office. The procedure is thus simplified. The OAH will act with greater freedom of choice, but with greater responsibility. The major innovation of the bill is that the OAH is named as a construction authority in connection with the installation process, and this implies that the nuclear law is LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. It is a special law compared to the law, and the construction process is conducted by the OAH as a national authority, so the review of an official decision will only be possible by judicial means, with proper application of the rules on administrative litigation. The rationalisation of radiation health tasks has also not been seen as a new need in the application of the law. The bill also serves to simplify and clarify the split authority system, which is currently over-divided and has several malfunctions. The bill also aims to rationalise the divided authority system and to reform the public administration system. The current authority system shows that in the field of nuclear safety and radiation protection, the authority's supervision is shared between the health authorities and the OAH, while in the field of protection and non-proliferation, the OAH is an authority acting in all applications. A system for the official supervision of radiation protection, radiation safety and radiation health has been established in Hungary. To carry out radiation protection tasks more effectively, the bill proposes the precise definition of the scope of radiation health and radiation protection tasks and the integration of radiation protection tasks with the OAH. The aim of the bill is also to rationalise and make more effective the administrative procedures of the regional radiation health centres operating as part of the public health administration body of the Budapest and county government offices under the supervision of the National Chief Medical Office of the State Public Health and Public Health Service and the Minister for Health, which currently covers the field of radiation protection and radiation health. The purpose of the bill is the Atv. amending and supplementing its rules on radioactive waste storage and temporary storage of radioactive waste. In the context of radioactive waste storage, Atv. The following amendments will be made: clarification of provisions on radioactive waste storage and temporary storage of radioactive waste; clarification of certain concepts, the introduction of new definitions such as ground-based research laboratory, radiological safety, radiological safety systems; definition of customer definition in the authorisation procedure for radioactive waste storage and temporary storage of radioactive waste; definition of impact areas in the regulatory procedure for radioactive waste storage and temporary storage, testing and evaluation of site and installation of radioactive waste; modification of provisions on the responsibility of the holder for the storage of radioactive waste and for the temporary storage of radioactive waste; establishment of additional regulations on the supervisory fee and amendments to the delegated provisions. Dear House, Please support the T/2250. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-124	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-02-18-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me try to break it down a little bit or try to bring life into this little Sunday afternoon siesta mood that has taken over here in connection with the nuclear law debate. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in different parts of the world, they have a different attitude towards the peaceful use of nuclear energy. [[15.10]] Some are now being discovered and used, some are living in the Renaissance, and, of course, some are fighting it hand and foot and trying to eliminate it, possibly get rid of it. But what about us? In Hungary, too, society is quite divided when it comes to nuclear energy. Sponsors talk about clean, climate-friendly energy, while opponents usually give examples of Chernobyl and Fukushima. What is common between the two groups is that none of them are willing to consider the other's arguments, stubbornly insists on their own, exclusive truth. In the debate, representatives of both positions are often willing to go to extremes, even though the situation here is not purely white or black. In fact, although nuclear accidents have had a tragic impact on the world in recent decades, the use of nuclear power plants in Hungary is still clearly a success story. Thanks to the outstanding expertise and conscientious, precise work of the Hungarian engineers and the workers operating the power plant, today the nuclear installation is clearly viewed positively in Paks and its surroundings. Not by accident, since 30 years ago he has been the largest employer in the area and, by the way, the best career and job opportunities, and therefore the turnover is extremely low. I can mention a number of people myself, whether from my own kinship or acquaintance, who have been working in this facility from the very beginning. It's so rare these days. And that's exactly the stability, that's the reliability that's essential for the safe operation of a nuclear power plant. However, nuclear accidents over the past decades have clearly shown that humans are mostly the weak link. Improper experimentation and human omissions, violation and disregard of technological discipline can be fatal. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is why the government's crime is so serious when it starts talking irresponsiblely about the dismissal of hundreds of people and the application of foreign management, because a person who fears for his existence goes into work day to day with insecurity cannot concentrate 100% on his work. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant last year accounted for 53 percent of domestic electricity production, making it by far the largest and most stable element of our energy mix. Today, it produces not only the most but also the cheapest electricity from domestic producers, with four blocks of 500 megawatts each. As a responsible political force, we could and cannot do anything but support the draft legislation on the extension of the four existing blocks. Yeah, but what about building new blocks? Are they really needed? Do we need another 2,400 megawatts of nuclear power? Why commit to nuclear power for another hundred years? Is it possible to plan our country's energy supply for such a time horizon? Is it a responsible decision to push the risk of a possible nuclear disaster by a hundred years? Do we not feel responsible for the future of our children and grandchildren? Do we not love our country if we support such a decision? There are so many serious issues, honourable Members, which arise not only in us, in decision-making politicians, but also in many cases on the part of citizens, such and the like. To make a decision as a responsible politician in such a situation, believe me, it's not easy. On the one hand, the ageing domestic power park park, the continuing horror of the drastic deterioration of security of supply, on the other hand, the eternal dilemma, the issue of nuclear safety. The experience so far in Hungary is extremely good, and the team of professionals is highly trained and responsible, so this is in favour of it. But let's keep looking. From an energy policy point of view, we see that the construction of two new blocks, except for the period of a few years of parallel operation, is merely a substitute for nuclear power plant capacity lost between 2032 and 37. But what is happening in domestic energy? We see thousands of megawatts of capacity falling out due to the planned shutdown of various aged, inefficient coal and other power plants. Why is that a problem? - I could ask. They'll build new ones for them. Yeah, if they're building. At the moment, both the domestic regulatory environment, the international economic situation, energy prices and the distorted energy market structure of the European Union have an impact on power plant building. In recent years, some of the large old ones of the domestic power plant - the Vértes Power Plant, the coal power plant in Mátra and some gas-powered power plants - except for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, have continuously and reliably generated electricity, and our other power plants have been operating periodically. This is due to the oversupply of renewable energy in Western Europe and the resulting extremely low stock exchange electricity prices. On several occasions, gas-powered power plants could have sold the electricity produced only at a negative price lower than their cost of production, so they were not operating. Our core power plants, where the cost of shutting down and restarting would have exceeded losses due to low electricity prices, naturally operated continuously. However, in these circumstances, a market participant will not enter into the construction of a new power plant, let us admit it, in an understandable manner. So the task before us is to solve Hungary's energy security issue for decades. This is how we, Jobbik Hungary, decided to support the construction of new blocks in Paks. We categorically reject, however, that we would have done this because we would be lobbyists of nuclear power, or even lovers of nuclear power. In an insidious and insidious way, those who say that Jobbik represents the interests of Russian investors. The only thing we listen to is our sense of responsibility for Hungary, our country's future. This sense of responsibility tells us today that, despite all kinds of false green, baseless demagogia, the replacement of capacity with new blocks is still an inevitable step. Here we are today, and for this decision, ladies and gentlemen, we take full responsibility for political responsibility, we take full responsibility, because we have made this decision with a clear conscience. But what did the other parties do in the meantime? Did they act responsibly? I hardly think so. What we have seen from them on this issue is, on the one hand, the greasy order delivery of the buddy circle above all aspects, and, on the other hand, the attack on the peaceful use of nuclear energy, which is often due to a lack of understanding and a lack of gut feelings. The former was owned by the respective governing parties, the Fidesz and the MSZP, and the latter was an instrument of LMP in recent years. On the one hand, arrogance and arrogance sweeping the counters from the table without thinking, and on the other hand, who knows what interest groups are driven by, who knows what interest groups have been subjected to the aggressive verbality of the visceral rejection. [[Dr. Szél Bernadett and István Ikotity intervene. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where's Bela?]] This time Jobbik represented the calm, calm professional arguments. A typical argument on the part of the opponents of nuclear energy is that we can import electricity from the West at dumped prices in offshore wind farms for pennies. Yes, indeed, the import rate is increasing, it is a fact, and it is a regrettable fact. It is also a fact that most of our domestic power plants would have produced electricity at a higher price than this, which is why our gas turbines were operating in such a low number of hours, and that is why my import price was crawling close to 40 percent. However, contrary to false green and misleading propaganda, the reality is that in 2013 the majority of our imports were made up of electricity produced in Polish and Czech coal power plants and in Ukrainian nuclear power plants - see Mavir data on the Internet - because in the unified electricity market, traders obtained this at the best price. So we understand that the anti-nuclear green propaganda is, in fact, campaigning for electricity produced in fossil power plants, because by increasing their share of imports, these would become even more important, my fellow Members. Just like in Germany, where a rash political decision has led to nuclear power being withdrawn from the market and the loss of electricity will be replaced by coal power plants. Moreover, the cheapness of the electricity produced by coal power plants is also relative, as this cheapness lasts as long as the price of CO2 quotas is on the floor. How deceitful and misleading this so - called green reasoning! The very important aspect I mention is that for Hungary's energy independence, it is a dagger to the heart, such an argument and similar. On the other hand, there are the two major governing parties of the last 25 years, the Fidesz and the MSZP. They are extremely consistent in supporting all major investments in government and opposition, without any professional basis, of course, only in the interests of companies with strong party ties that can be placed on a fat order. Their energy policy is unthinkable and ad hoc. They also go against their own written and adopted energy strategies, if the interests so require. [[15.20]] This is how the energy strategy for the next 20 years was declared among the actions of the ruling party, which envisaged the nuclear-carbon-green triangle, only for the last period, the taxation of renewable energy-producing equipment will take place in the same way as the closure of the country's last underground coal mine. Atomic-carbon-green scenario, I'll say it again. With regard to nuclear energy, we have before us this law, which should be the legal basis for our country's largest investment in recent decades. We will give our opinion on each legislative section in the form of a normal speech later. However, it is clear that inconsistencies, haste, submission to unknown entrepreneurial interests can also be seen in this bill. He rearranges authority powers, gives extra licenses, smuggles facilitations into the scope of procedural regulation, licensing, not to mention encryption. It may, of course, be an explanation of the procedure within a reasonable time, but if it means unjustified restrictions on the public or is at the expense of safety, we cannot support it, and we will even oppose it with all our means. We are particularly pleased that Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. was included in the preamble as the future operator of the facility. In the last thirty years, the nuclear power plant's expert squad has proven to be capable of doing so. We hope that by the danger of importing Western managers, they will not increase the uncertainty currently present among workers. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik for Hungary Movement is committed to Hungary's energy independence. Let us therefore put an end to the destructive opposition behaviour of the last 25 years. Let energy independence be the national minimum. In our view, the government should put another one next to each forint spent on nuclear energy to improve energy efficiency and ensure the spread of renewable energy sources. This is the only way to ensure a long-term balance between energy security, self-sufficiency and sustainability as objectives. Let us finally turn to the future, because that is what Hungary needs right now. The constant opposition to this issue is neither forward nor leads anywhere. The issue of Paks enlargement seems to have been decided, but the transparency of spending billions is solely the responsibility of the current government. Don't ask the opposition to assist. We want to stop the withdrawal, not justify it. Therefore, as long as the government refuses to support the opposition initiative to be supervised by a parliamentary committee over a period of time by the completion of the investment and the spending of money, we cannot ensure our support with a calm conscience for such legislative proposals. In this case, we can express with one abstention that, although we have supported and supported the expansion of Paks, the construction of new blocks in the past, but how this and the spending of the billions involved in the investment are much more transparent and more accessible to the people. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-18-126	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-02-18-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, These are sad moments in the Hungarian Parliament, as every debate is sad about the Paks enlargement, because by now, on 18 February 2015, Fidesz-KDNP has actually become a spokesman for nuclear industry. Three of their Members read the same text that could have been read in the 1970s. In fact, it seems that you stayed somewhere in the '70s and didn't realize how much has happened since then. But let's try to recall a little bit of the process of how you've come to this point. On 14 January 2014, Viktor Orbán committed the original sin, went to Moscow and entered the business with President Putin. The political agreement obviously has an economic basis, although no one could understand why Hungary's Prime Minister had to jump into the nuclear project so quickly. Today, we see that our country has become a gateway to the eastern despots, and its political attraction has brought Fidesz-KDNP there. And in the meantime, Lajos Simicska was replaced as their stable oligarch, their new oligarch base needs projects. That's MET Zrt. and that's what Paks II enlargement has become. Now, to put it this way, you've hit rock bottom. On Monday, János Lázár said in his reply to my interpellation that this is the law, the Law of 2250, which removes the last obstacles to the expansion of Paks. What is this law about? I'm gonna go through it point by point to see what's in it, but I'd like to highlight two important points. One is that you use this law to encrypt everything. Everything about enlargement is being encrypted, everything is being denied. The second is that they do not have to deal with the public procurement law, if they want to defuse their oligarchs, they can practically select people who will be eligible for inclusion in the nuclear project. I took the liberty of drawing your attention to the fact that it would have been appropriate to remove this bill from the agenda this morning, as requested, and as it was not done, and then told me to look at international examples, Mr. Secretary-General Major, especially with French examples, that it was absolutely accepted methods that you put on the table, because there would be similar rules in France. Ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at the basic criteria of Flamanville 3, a French nuclear project, and I can clearly tell you who is building, where is building, where is building, how much is building, so I can answer the basic questions. In relation to the Hungarian nuclear project, we barely know anything about it. If you carry these encryptions through the Hungarian Parliament - you can do so because you have two thirds, and Jobbik will be very brave to stay, as I have heard - then from that moment on, my Rosatom will be completely uncontrollable. Even if they deviate from the preliminary plans, we won't know. If they're expensive or late, we won't know. However, there is the credit agreement, which clearly states that if we are late with the repayment of loans because of our own fault, Hungary will be facing very serious sanctions. So with this law, you create a state in which Rosatom in Hungary practically does what it wants under the pretext of a nuclear project. And then let's look at what's wrong with each point. In this law, you codify that access to all data relating to the agreement, contracts and all data relating to the preparation of the Orbán-Putin pact of January 2014 may be refused if it violates Hungary's national security interests or the right to intellectual property. This is a typical rubber paragraph, which can be considered almost anything, so I can only conclude that the year I spent with you in court meant different ordeals for you, and you do not want to hear any further about my lawsuits, you simply want to take the opportunity to enforce the Hungarian people's will in court. That's what I'm talking about. That's what's codifying it. But let's keep going. All agreements, pre-contractual and decision-making documents are considered non-public for 15 years, which is also tricky because the data is not public from the time they were created, but you count 15 years only from completion, so it could be 20 years. From now on, about 2035 we will be aware of the trouble that has been brought upon our heads with this project. Let's keep moving. We have talked about the fact that procurements related to investment are simply excluded from the scope of public procurement. Gentlemen and ladies, What's this? However, how do you think that the most fundamental powers of transparency and control will be virtually impaired, mutilated, that offers can no longer be compared, that competition will be limited? How does the exclusion of fair competition serve the interests of the country and taxpayers, honourable Secretary of State? Then there's the issue of arbitration. I told you a year ago that it was already wrongly codified in the Pact itself. The law on national wealth clearly states that we need to do our business within the borders. Then why are you making this mistake now? Or do you not consider the Paks receipts to be part of the national wealth? Of course, this is also an explanation, but it is rather strange if you wish to apply it. You here in this debate - I have heard the same thing three times - referred to a reduction in bureaucracy. But yet, gentlemen and ladies, what are you talking about? It's actually triple illegal what they're doing. This is not just me, but President Attila Péterfalvi, whose letter I hold in my hand. Although you did not send the proposal to the president in the course of the administrative consultation, he did look at it and sent it to almost everyone to whom it could be sent in this institution. [[15.30]] He's listing for three pages that you're in violation of the Constitution, you're violating the info law, you're going through the Aarhus Convention. Technically, they've received a tremendously harsh criticism from the president of NAIH. He sent me to answer my question, Mr President, that he is aware of this criticism, Minister Miklós Seszták, Parliament's Legislative Committee, that is, Gergely Gulyás, the Committee for Sustainable Development, tried to put this bill on the agenda, but you voted him down by two thirds, the Economic Committee and Dr. Attila Aszódi himself, the Commissioner of the Government. I would like to hear in your speeches the reactions to Mr Attila Péterfalvi's objections. They get the reviews for four pages. Don't do nuclear propaganda here on public money, but answer Attila Péterfalvi's questions, as well as the questions of May Other Politics, because we object to the same thing he does, against the basic law, violates the info law, and violates this bill through the Aarhus Convention. And this is not about, gentlemen, that you can do anything to put any regulation above the Fundamental Law. You have to stick to certain corner points. A bill like this should not be put on the table in plenary. But I'll keep going. Etelka Barsiné Pataky, who is difficult to accuse of anti-government, as she used to be a Member of the European Parliament in the colours of Fidesz, has been president of the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers since 2009, and has asked you how it is possible that the membership of the Chamber is no longer mandatory if someone wants to participate in the Paks expansion as an engineer. Now, Mr. Secretary of State, what is the reason that under Hungarian law, if, say, we are building an underground garage, this is what we are planning, they will require chamber membership if they are planning a nuclear power plant, then why not? I understand you're trying to put foreign engineers in the position, but what exactly will be the international technical advisory board, what will be the office or authority set up to examine these engineers? I have a similar question: the Hungarian law in force requires at least ten years of eligibility, for example in the case of foundational structures, and I could continue. Now, this law exempts the investor from this ten-year suitability. Then let me ask you, how long do you intend to spend on these Paks blocks? Will these work for less than ten years? Because at the moment, as you described in codification, this looks about like this. Then either they'll correct it or explain what they're thinking. What ran out of time when the government colleagues read the texts they received from someone is that the extension of the impact area is virtually infinitely narrowed down to 100 meters, for example, in Boda's case. That's in this law. Once again, we are talking about the storage of spent nuclear fuel, and as a client, it can enter this process, it can ask questions, it can have a say in who is within 100 meters of the object. As far as I know, Mr Secretary of State, there are quite a few examples of a cross-border approach to such issues, because this is typically a case that does not stop at national borders and, above all, does not stop at 100 metres. Why are you doing this? To radically change the role of the nuclear authority, I have tried to decipher from your speeches what you are thinking specifically. But I still do not fully understand the reason for the expansion of powers and who will provide the necessary resources. What we can clearly see is that they have neither the capacity nor the manpower at this time in the OAH to take control of the entire sphere using non-nuclear ionising radiation. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary, how much this will cost. Because I would like to state that the sphere using non-nuclear ionising radiation is essentially Hungarian health, starting from dental X-rays to CT equipment, from pregnancy hormone testing isotope laboratories to radiation therapy classes. Now, according to my intel, this is going to be transferred to the OAH, pushing out the public health authorities so far. We believe that this regulation is not for the protection of people, but for the protection of nuclear technology. Then why exactly are you changing that? The May Other has repeatedly asked you to refrain from bringing this bill into plenary. I was not surprised at the fact that the 15-minute speaking time was used to continuously publish the unknown nuclear propaganda here in 2015 in Hungary. But over this brainwashing, time passed. Let me show you the survey you did on Media. [[He's showing it to me.]] I showed you this morning: 66 percent of Hungarian people want green energy. This is the position of two thirds of the Hungarian people, this is the view of Hungary's future. Dear Secretary of State, You know perfectly well, everyone knows that in this country, Hungarian people have never been asked whether they want to live with the addiction and threat of nuclear energy. There was no such thing in this country, there was no political debate, there was no social debate, there was no real professional debate. It started when Viktor Orbán went to Moscow and signed the Orbán-Putin pact. Since then, we have started to decide taboos with the active participation of Possibly Other Politics. The debate is whether we need this or not. There are studies, I know it, you know it, we all know it, which say that in 40 years we could step out of nuclear power and switch to renewable energies. It is your political decision, and there is essentially a nuclear coalition in this country that they do not do so. And it's nothing but that you want money. And this project has a lot of potential for corruption. You need this money to finance the party apparatus, the party itself. It's a shame, you're down to basically the bottom. They want to solve the questions that have been raised over the last year by trying to make court cases impossible. You're not authorized by anyone. If you accept, I can assure you that we will move every stone that exists so that this law cannot work in Hungary. The world has never seen such regulation. We will turn to János Áder, we will collect signatures, we will turn to the Constitutional Court, we will turn to the Ombudsman, we will ask Attila Péterfalvi to continue fighting, we will turn to Aarhus and I will not continue. But I can assure you that we will move the last stone so that this shame cannot affect Hungary, so that while two thirds of the Hungarian people want green energy, they can push their nuclear corruption project down the throats of this country by ignoring what the majority of Hungary wants. And all of this is under the 21st. It's a century! You said you were reducing bureaucratic obstacles. What are you talking about? It's against the law what they do. This bill is against the law, it's against the law. You're saying you can create 10,000 jobs? The Teller project, which is the last one I know, has been received by everyone in Hungary for the last time, which is about the nuclear project, talks about up to 3-4 thousand jobs. The May Other is Politics, when he wrote his election program, he talked about 450 thousand jobs, renewables, energy efficiency and local economic development. It is very important to see that this would give jobs to everyone in Hungary, to low-skilled people as well as to disadvantaged regions across the country. This is a real break-out opportunity for Hungary, which reduces our addiction. There is no way to reduce addiction, my fellow Members in Jobbik, while we cannot answer questions about the reasons for Russian friendship. Dear Nuclear Coalition! In 2009, you all voted in favour of the process that started this amok run that Viktor Orbán is leading. It's time to get off this train. [[István Ikotity and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2015-02-18-128	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech. The first independent Member who has applied may speak, so I give the floor to Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2015-02-18-129	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The government's bill to discuss now is the Paks secret law. A proposal whose sole aim is to achieve the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with the total exclusion of the public, in secret, in front of the people, journalists and secretly in front of the EU partners with whom Hungary would otherwise build a common European policy. Paks II. It is terribly expensive, and the electricity it produces will be uneconomically expensive. Under unknown conditions, the project will sell Hungary to an aggressive regime for 30 years. The Paks secret law consists of three parts, but all three elements are completely unacceptable to a democratic politician. Moreover, the whole proposal is unconstitutional. [[15.40]] The first part of the proposal would reduce the scope of public interest data for Paks enlargement. With this, Fidesz suggests that you have rights to the public, but you can deviate from them if we have personal interests there. The second part would allow enlargement to take place without public procurement. The message of this is that we like competition if it makes the state work more efficient, unless it's very big money, because it's better to sign without competition, and if it's a really big business, a lot of money, then no one but us can get to it. The third part would encrypt all preparatory documents for 15 years. Obviously, to make it clear that Fidesz has no idea what the energy supply conditions will be like in 20-30 years, and they have no idea what the impact of the Paks expansion will have on Hungary. Orbán's visit to Moscow last January and the Paks II. a short-term loan agreement between the signing of a short-term loan contract. With this law, you can hide everything for 15 years, and in 15 years, the processes will be irreversible. Transparency, secrecy, corruption loopholes, lack of competition, unprepared, unfounded political decisions with incredible negative consequences; as if there were a summary of the last few years of Fidesz governance in this single law. The law is also unconstitutional, because even the Fundamental Law of Fidesz states that everyone has the right to know and disseminate data of general interest. And what could be more public interest than spending thousands of billion forints of paid taxes? Let's look at the problems in more detail. The reference to national security interests in the case of the Paks secret law is completely false, since the proposal is about to encrypt the whole convention. Is every detail really a national security risk, from construction contracts to suppliers, to communications orders? Are these all national security issues? Isn't it more like if every detail is classified, it's easier to steal the money on orders? It's 2015, and the name of Fidesz is now connected to urizing and stealing. The expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a corruption case for the decade, and the bill before us is living proof of that. The Paks secret law binds the eyes of journalists, prosecutors and people. When we talk about Paks II, it's not just about corruption. Paks II. betraying the interests of Hungarian people and voters. Fidesz leads Hungary out of the European Allied System and throws Hungary into the arms of Putin's Russia by lying that we need this. We commit ourselves to Putin for 20-30 years while Hungary lives on the European Union's money. For Hungary, the European Union is the only system of allies that can guarantee lasting peace and lasting development. Russia, on the other hand, does not have allies, not partners, but only interests. Putin's Russia seems to be doing business, but in fact it's gaining influence because it dictates conditions that are only beneficial to him. And if a person fails to fulfil his conditions, he will end up in the same fate as Georgia or Ukraine. Anyone who does not understand the weight and risk of this in Hungary is unfit to lead Hungary. Hungary cannot go back to the Russian sphere of interest. Orbán cannot offer Hungary to Putin for some baksis. What Fidesz is doing with Putin's reception yesterday and the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is more than a mistake is a historical sin. Dear Parliament, I ask you not to participate in this shameful charade. Take advantage of your historical responsibility. Paks can't be encrypted. What must be done is to terminate this injurious contract immediately. Don't touch the credit. This bill is completely unacceptable. Thank you for listening.
u2015-02-18-130	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speakers to be announced. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-02-18-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In a number of ways, I felt that I had to speak on this issue. As a Paksi, I am well aware that what the professionals put on the table there is irreplaceable and unquestionable to anyone. What they're doing there means safety for Paks, because they have the expertise. Every man in Paks who lives there has confidence in them. This is why what we see in the polls is outrageous that the support of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, if not very strong, is decreasing in many polls, and this is due to the government of Fidesz-KDNP. It's because, you know, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a plant that people used to trust because they knew they'd know everything that happened on Paks. Now you signed a contract that even professionals didn't know you were going to sign a contract. They signed a contract that appeared in Russian in the first round, and Hungarian people could not have known exactly what was in it. You went out secretly and signed this contract. They know that if a plant for which engineers study and experience several years, decades, the average person looks at it with question marks, and if he feels that there is secrecy around him, then he too begins to be afraid of this issue. And the fact that the mistrust of Paks is a bit established is, unfortunately, the reason why you want to keep everything under wraps right now. János Lázár said that the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should be transparent and transparent for international managers. Well, I told him then that he should not be transparent and transparent for international managers, but for any person who is curious about the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and its related contracts, because we are talking about public money, no matter how we look at it, everyone has the right to know who they contract, what amounts and what these contracts will be about. In many cases, even John Lazarus himself uses a multitude of bad terms. They are very careful to talk about capacity-building. Gentlemen, this is an increase in capacity, even Péter Cseresnyés felt that this capacity maintenance probably does not hold up, but we are talking about enlargement here, gentlemen. János Lázár said the other day that it would be about the renovation of the blocks. Gentlemen, this is an extension of the operating hours, not the remodeling of the blocks. But the problem is that nuclear power is something in which we need to be very precise and precise, and I would also like to say to you that there is no Paks I., but there is an MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant and Paks II. The concept of Paks I was introduced with great suddenness when they tried to solve it, to talk themselves out of unpleasant situations. We asked, as my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth said, to set up an ad hoc committee in which both pro-government, opposition representatives and civilians can participate. You wiped him out right away because you said the Economic Commission would take care of this. I think that if you are looking for transparency and transparency, we have resubmitted our proposal - as I promised - to this ad hoc committee, and we are waiting for you to see whether transparency and transparency are important for the Hungarian people, or whether you really want to meet international managers and the rest of the world. It is fortunate that the elections are only three years away, and it is not important for you to explain these questions to the Hungarian people as well. And when we ask questions, because I ask questions as a deckie, because I have to ask, because there's a lot going on at home when I'm on the street, and when I'm shopping in the market, and engineers and professionals ask me something that I say is good, then as I have this opportunity, I ask the Ministry about these issues with Paks. The fact that you don't get any answers at this time, unfortunately, you're getting used to it, but the way they answer it, I think it's really outrageous. If we dare to ask, since you made a government decision on Paks in 2012 and also in 14 whether it is the same in the two decisions, the deadline for one of them is 31 August 2012, until you have to do so, and I dare to ask you immediately what happened during these two years, what you have come up with on this issue, you will not be able to answer these questions at all. For example, they could not answer whether they were planning to start Pakson's college course or whether they were planning to expand their courses or expand their numbers at the already present Institute of Energy Training in Paks. The only answer you had was how dare I say that I have been begging for this for five years, and I ask you to start preparing the region and entrepreneurs, because I have only been a Member for six months. But, you know, I stood up for Paks, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and the people who worked there when I wasn't a congressman, and maybe that's why my party thought I should be there, because I work for the people. [[15.50]] It was called political impertinence to really ask the question of whether there will be training. Gentlemen, I don't know what you're hiding about this, and I don't know what agreement you signed yesterday, which will apply to training - that's what we would like to see, by the way, what's in it, what's in it, what the Rosatom will finance. You can't keep secrets about these matters, gentlemen. We really need to see that this question must be open to everyone. Because what you have just submitted is that both contracts are being encrypted in every way and, by the way, this whole enlargement is being removed from public procurement, it's really outrageous. Especially because a person has a feeling that they really have something to hide, that they will contract with entrepreneurs who are not sure that they will hold their place professionally, but let's say that there will be a language school with some friendly contractor or maybe some law firm, a lawyer's office, and that's probably what they want to hide, to see that the 40 percent supply chain can only be established, created, and at all, to have 40 percent Hungarian suppliers, so that they will replace it with such supplementary language schools and law firms. We have been asking you professionally for five years to start preparing both the region and entrepreneurs for enlargement, because the problem is that if the state does not help local entrepreneurs, competent professionals, they will not have the financial opportunity to start preparing. I was given the answer when I asked how 40 percent of entrepreneurs will be guaranteed that travelling exhibitions and travelling lectures will be held by you, and this is what it really sounds like in the answer. If the interactive truck is the traveling exhibition, which will tell entrepreneurs what their duties will be at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, it is truly outrageous. If you ask professionals and entrepreneurs what you have said to them, what you have said to them, what to prepare for, what to train for or what to expect, they can say that even though a forum has already been convened in this regard, they have not given any meaningful information. I understand that oligarching is very easy for you. I understand this Simicska-in-war is going on. So you're probably trying to hide that Simicska's companies won't win the jobs at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but the new oligarchs of Fidesz? Or do they know, for example, that unfortunately, most entrepreneurs already know Simicska's name better than anything else? There really were professionals here who worked through the last 25 years. They're professionals who run these companies, and today they can be top executives. It would make sense to talk about it once, to open up this question, and to see what's going on with Paks. International managers. Yeah, I'm sure we need international managers. But I'm really asking you to make this transparent for us people living in Paks. Because without knowing what's going on, Pakson - you can't hide a lot from us, because we live there, we talk to each other, so obviously we hear the things you're trying to hide. We can fully agree with the need to increase salaries in the National Atomic Energy Office, as they will also manage the permits. That's natural, because you have to find professionals there, and we've seen for a long time that you haven't been able to fill up the numbers. And as you can hear now, even with the raises, we may not be able to upload the numbers in the National Atomic Energy Office. The Bureau has been begging you for a long time to do something about this case, and a year has passed since the treaty was signed to do anything about it. I would be very happy to re-submit my questions to you, which can be found in the two resolutions, which expired two years ago, and should have fulfilled both the research reactor, the development and the preparation of entrepreneurs and the 40 percent circle. This was all your job two years ago on the basis of the government decision. You didn't do anything. I'm really gonna do it again to put these questions in, only then please don't be the answer to me asking you in a cocky way. My job is to ask you. I mean, we can't have all the voters in Paks sitting here, the public can't sit here and they can't ask you. My job is to get caught walking around Paks and the market, and they say, Anita, ask me, and I'll ask you, and I'll keep asking you about these things until we're clear. So we have tabled our amendments today with Bertalan Tóth, and please accept it. Remove both encryption and return public procurement to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. And please understand, we're talking about expansion, not capacity-building. Paks I. as a concept exists only for you, and there is no block renewal, but there is an extension of operational time. This is a very important issue for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Accurate concepts are needed. Thank you.
u2015-02-18-132	I am also giving the floor to Mr Sallai R. Benedek as a pre-registered speaker.
u2015-02-18-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot of things have been said, and what I wanted to say in the first place, I have to make some changes, because I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said. In the head of the Secretary of State, he began with a very strong and veritable sentence - sorry if I could not describe it literally - there is no competitive alternative to nuclear energy in Europe, which is why Hungary has committed itself to developing it. I think that was the first sentence. [[Dr. András Aradski: That wasn't it.]] It struck my mind that there is no mention of Hungary's commitment, and there is no indication that it has committed itself. It was the government of Fidesz-KDNP who committed Hungary. But Hungary did not ask for any of this. It is completely incomprehensible to me how Hungary can be talked about in favour of public opinion polling data that has been mentioned here several times. Congressman Imre Vejkey also referred to what Bertalan Tóth said when the debate was about whether or not the Paks project lost its support. I didn't even see it happen, but I don't think you've seen it either. They did not dare to ask the Hungarian electorate, the Hungarian society, about this once. They dared not write a referendum on this, they dared not write a social consultation, while Tamás Deutsch is now bombing us with letters from the Internet tax. They did not dare to ask Hungarian society what energy should be like for the next hundred years. And that is why we are here now in practice and we can argue about who represents Hungarian society more and more crediblely. Very, very strange things in the Secretary of State's statement - I apologize again if I did not literally take note - there is not enough energy or energy needed for the aluminium, iron and steel industry. That's what's been said. It sounded a little funny to me the day after Vladimir Putin's visit, that we would already announce that we would be a country of the iron and steel industry, while we would not use a fraction of the potential of real natural resources, such as soil and agricultural development, nor substantial developments. In the same way, it is surprising what kind of thinking can motivate a governing party to develop industries that may have a background in natural resources elsewhere. 'Cause if they're talking about the aluminum industry in Iceland, that makes perfect sense. But the fact that we consider this an excellent opportunity in Hungary is obviously a party that is important to ensure that the independence of the country and the sustainable use of natural resources in all respects ensure long-term well-being for society is assured, we are surprised to see this. Then it began with the keynote speech of the MSZP. Neither can my enemies accuse me of blowing a stone in too many ways with the MSZP, but I must fully agree with the first sentence that has been said. This is what Bertalan Tóth said: it is amazing and unsettling, and this draft legislation is a hotbed of corruption. Unfortunately, this reflects entirely my opinion. I see the same thing from this draft, and then, in many cases, it is referred back to this. Congressman Imre Vejkey said - and I couldn't wait for this argument to come out - that this means ten thousand jobs in Tolna County; how good this is and how much people are waiting for it. Once again, I would like to point out the aspects of Fidesz governance that, while here it is able to create a job of HUF 300 million, it expects Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to create jobs for 3 million and 5 million. I think it's absolutely amazing to present this whole thing as a job-creating programme, and I think it's just as amazing to use it as an argument. [[16.00]] But this will come back later, because I did not want to argue with my fellow opposition Members, and I would not have done it if Mr Lajos Kepli had not mentioned Jobbik as the other opinion in contrast with Fidesz. Thank you very much, I think you've honored us on some level. Yes, we are indeed the other opinion, we are indeed on the other pole, and indeed we represent what Fidesz does not do, whether it is small estates, large estates or nuclear energy and energy independence. Indeed, we represent the other pole compared to what Fidesz offers to Hungarian society. When Congressman Vejkey, or another speaker of Fidesz, came up again and again with a word that would facilitate the transformation of the institutional system, the authorisation procedure, I remembered the information that Congresswoman Bangóné had on an earlier agenda on how the communication of political correctness in the Ministry of Human Resources would be transformed, how pregnancy would be called a blessed state, and the stadium as a sports facility. Political correctness here says that from here on out we can call villainy efficiency, because it is pretty much the result of what they say with this draft legislation. Because I think, although I apologize, because I do not assume that either of you would want to harm the Hungarian society, but they are insanely wrong when they think that efficiency can be a goal and serve the interests of the Hungarian people in any way. Unthinkableness, single-handed focus on power, merger of power and authorisation will only help prevent as many aspects from coming into the picture during authorisation; as many aspects as possible can be excluded and as narrow-sighted as possible to decide on this justification. But I am still going on with the speech, because, as I said, Congressman Lajos Kepli spoke to us. It also came with stable jobs as a justification for development. I once again wondered what Jobbik wants for the Hungarian countryside if it considers such a plan justified for good, highly qualified jobs. I'd be sad enough if we put a nuclear power plant in every county to create 10,000 jobs. By not being a decker, I am convinced that other highly qualified jobs would also be good for the people of Paks. There would be another kind of industry if we had to farm with so much money and significantly more capacity if we had to use 3000 billion to help people living there, and not necessarily about it. He also talked about gut feelings about the greens. This once again struck my ears from the words of the Member, since it is not the members of our party who post on Facebook about the murder of Roma. So we are talking about the fact that the LMP is trying to influence visceral emotions, and I think it's a bit excessive, because at the moment I realize that when the debates take place, we are trying to point out relatively objectively why it could be different, why a different kind of development could serve better Hungarian energy goals. Mr Kepli also said that Jobbik is committed to Hungary's energy independence. Yes, I do not dispute this, but LMP is committed to the political independence of Hungary and therefore does not want us to act as Putin's country. That is why we do not want foreign capital to affect the energy industry in Hungary in the long term, and therefore we would like to see much more small regional energy policy based on natural resources in Hungary and on renewable energy sources supporting rural development; that is precisely because we want Hungary's independence to be achieved, which in our words and rhetoric is very often covered by the word, by the fact that we want the country to be independent in all respects. It's always funny when I hear the term energy independence from either the fidesz or the right side, because I don't understand why energy independence is what we're talking about so much, while much of Hungary's food supply comes from abroad. Why is energy independence more important than food independence or health independence, or a lot of other things that we also depend on foreign factors? As a result, the purpose of this legislation arises again and again. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] To get to my original point, the draft legislation, we see a number of problems and problems in it, as our lead speaker said. However, there are a number of small things that cannot be said about. I think the opposition cannot stress the point that a system, a development, which has been encrypted for 15 years, cannot serve the interests of Hungary in any way, the interests of the citizens of Hungary. This can serve practically one thing: that economic interest groups should be served in such a way that it is not revealed. There's nothing else you can do. This may serve to shed light, beyond the limitation period laid down in Btk., on the pigs that may now arise in connection with the development and use of 3000 billion. As a result, can you, using the earlier words, take the anger that they may feel about us as guts? It is not, however, only indignation, which we feel as Hungarian citizens, not even as Members of Parliament, that they do not allow any insight into a public fortune that our children and grandchildren will have to pay from their work or taxforints, which you believe is designed for them to have energy. We can't see into this in any way. That's what's unsuitable! This is what is unacceptable, and that is why we can absolutely only promise rejection in relation to such legislation. The country can't go on hiding the laundry even more, we want to hide what's happening to the public behind our backs. I was very prepared to make long quotes from Fidesz politicians, who, between 2002 and 2010, constantly called on the then-regulating government to make the use of public funds transparent, Hungarian developments, to make it transparent so that Hungarian citizens can know how developments are made, how public procurement should be carried out, and how to find the most effective, best solutions for development. But I don't really have time for this, and in so many cases I've got your opinion that it's too bad to quote. You should also be aware of the fact that between 2002 and 2010, your party stood by the full scope of public procurement in the country, so that public wealth is not squandered. You promised this to the Hungarian voters in 2010 before their election, and criticized the governments of the time for which they are now acting in a cumulative and exponential manner. Obviously, there are a number of points in the legislation that raise particular concerns. I found one of these before the 7th. For Section 2 of the Euratom Treaty, which refers to the Council Directive, nuclear safety and liability insurance, a Council Directive, a Council Directive, a Council Directive, a Directive on nuclear safety and a Directive on liability insurance, a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2011 on the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and a directive on the protection of natural persons with regard to the protection of natural persons with regard to the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data relating to the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data relating to the processing So the existing insurance, as far as we know, is about 36 billion, and this did not cover the damage to the 2003 malfunction. Not to mention, this kind of irresponsibleness is growing in the country. It is important to talk about this because, for example, in the context of the Colontar disaster, when we talk about environmental safety, we can say that the people living there still do not have the solution to how their lives can be restored after an environmental disaster. In the previous speeches, we have heard a number of examples of how energy security, energy policy and energy production in Europe, in the world, are changing. I have no other option but to acknowledge that you have been authorised by the Hungarian society to take decisions by a majority, but I do not feel it is my duty at any level to accept these decisions. At the moment, I can't distract myself from the fact that nuclear energy, radiation, is essentially a threat to genetic material, DNA. The more anti-evolutionary I can do than create a species of systems that will endanger its own background, its heritage, and place its future on it. Obviously, there are nuclear power plants in the world where there has not yet been an accident, and I wish that it never happens anywhere else, but if there was a chance for Hungary to take the path of energy independence that you and Jobbik have mentioned, it would not be any different from providing local resources to local people divided into areas and to local environmental conditions. In this case, it always arises when you say that there are many ideas for finding a solution in Hungary, right, for the final storage of spent fuel. It's still unsolved. They're being stored in Paks on the power plant. The last delivery was in the '90s. We don't know what's gonna happen in the long run. There's no national solution. There's no long-term solution. We look forward to the answer to what will happen, how it will create environmental security. We still don't know about it, so the public is good, there's nothing to know about how the planned new blocks will be cooled. What will be the project that responds to the concerns raised by the Hungarian Atomic Energy Research Institute, what will be the solution to the fact that the current blocks cannot be properly cooled, since the geological potential is something that cannot be changed. [[16.10]] There's only one thing to see here: you want to spend a huge amount of money, a public money. They want to spend it in such a way that no one will notice, preferably not to see information in it. I'll tell you why it bothers me the most. At the time of the change of regime, we saw - and I think you saw this - how the communist power of that time tried to transfer its political power into economic power, when it was already apparent that it was going into the soup, and there would probably be a change. This is what is now seen in this effort: how can you gain economic power instead of political power when the beams are weakened? How to acquire capital for economic power, acquire wealth, and make it inaccessible so that it can be made public beyond any limitation period of the Btk. These and a number of other arguments that I will make later, which make this proposal unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-18-134	Thank you very much, Congressman Sallai. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, Fidesz.
u2015-02-18-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Economic globalisation takes power out of the hands of the governments responsible for the common good and puts it into the hands of a handful of capital companies and financial institutions, driven by one coercive force: the pursuit of short-term financial profits. Therefore, countries that consume more than their own environmental resources dominate the regulatory processes of the international economy, says David Korten, professor of economics at Harvard University. Dear Parliament, I am well aware that we are not today in the parliamentary debate on a free trade agreement between the United States of America and the European Union, but allow me to draw the attention of all of us, in the context of the Paks nuclear power plant capacity-building package, to some of the circumstances that are important for our decisions to be taken in the near future. A significant part of the world's economic resources is concentrated as the property of fewer and fewer natural persons and capital companies. International standards for the conversion of natural resources into economic goods do not serve to strengthen institutions that increase social resources, including education and health, but to promote purely capital interests. And all of this is because of moral deprivation and money sickness. For where the sacrament vanishes, the spirit falls asleep, and with it the morale also declines. The subtle vibration of the energy of love is pushed into place by the harsh thrashing of the energy of money, and the ringing of the bell takes over the place of the bell. The community's ambition for harmony is replaced by the temporary prosperity of the few and the process of looting nature and society. A global power structure has been created that focuses on the resources of trade, the financial market, the media and energy, as well. János Kodolányi said at the Transylvanian conference in Szársó in 1943: "Learn the means of communication, even create new tools, and pour the inflation of words into the masses. Eventually, she accepts everything you give her and gives you everything you want from her. Behold, modern magic. And now all of this has been done. Dear Parliament, The Yalta Convention, which guarantees peace on our continent for 70 years, has crumbled in front of our eyes. Global power is now seeking to distil potential rivals and their co-operation systems. The most spectacular frontline today is the basic energy cooperation system established between Russia and Europe over the last two decades. The other priority target is the Eurasian pole, which includes Russia, China, India, Japan and some of the Islamic countries. The concrete situation in which we are today can be described as the result of ever sharper imperial clashes at global level, increasing tensions at regional level due to the failure of the Central European regime changes, and at local level as the result of the helpless emotions of Hungarian society. Hungary is located in the middle of the tectonic fault line in geopolitical terms, in the buffer zone of imperial interests. One danger is to become the last henchmen of a raging empire out of ignorance, irresponsibleness, cowardice, or mere profiteering. The other danger is that, maneuvering between the two realms, based on incorrect self- and geopolitical evaluation, we miss the step with reckless recklessness. After the Battle of Bratislava, Mohács, Trianon, we are once again at a crucial forging point of historical importance, and in the light of this situation, we must also examine and evaluate the draft law before us. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's gross electricity production decreased by 12 per cent in 2013 and by nearly 4 per cent in 2014, while the increase in consumption was close to 1 per cent. The share of electricity purchased from abroad amounted to 28 percent in 2013 and nearly 32 percent in 2014. The share of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was 37 percent and the Mátra Power Plant with domestic lignite was 14.5 percent. With the capacity utilisation of the Paks blocks approaching 90 per cent and the Mátra lignite power plant 75 per cent, we can say with a calm conscience that the operational capacity of these two units is currently dependent on the safe supply of electricity to our country, together with its socio-economic viability. In the decade ahead, the increase in electricity consumption will be below 1 percent per year due to increased efficiency. The peak load can rise from 6600 megawatts to 6700 megawatts by 2020 and by 2030 to 7300 megawatts. In contrast, by 2020, our fail-safe power generation capacity will be reduced to between 6 and 7 thousand megawatts. In theory, falling capacities can be replaced by increasing imports, but this would entail doubling imports, which would be a problem on the capacity side of transmission networks and, on the other hand, an ageing power park park in the neighbouring countries will also fall out of production. So the question is not whether we will replace the ageing Paks capacity after 2025. The question is, in the rated power plant capacity of 10,000 megawatts required for the safe provision of the country, what power plants will remain and will be installed after the old and new blocks of Paks have been removed. Even in the medium term, the increase in the import line cannot replace domestic power plant construction with sufficient security, because our neighbours cannot build cheaper power plants than we can. For the next six years, we need to build a power park park with a capacity of 1500 megawatts in order to maintain our security of supply. This can be done primarily on the basis of renewable sources and, in this case, possible State aid can be adapted to European rules. After 2020, an additional 2 thousand megawatts of renewable or alternative capacity based on technology that is not yet known will become essential. At the same time, it is also possible to use renewable or believed renewable energy sources locally by over-use, so renewables will never replace the still increasing amount of energy that we are using today from fossil fuels. It is therefore also important to renew the capacity of the Mátra Power Plant of 600-800 megawatts from the point of view of supply and national security, but at the same time we must state that there is no alternative to reducing energy use. I am convinced that the target system of the national energy strategy adopted in 2011 can continue to be maintained, but that the preparation of the national power plant development action plan cannot continue. Dear Parliament, Today we are debating a matter of true national strategy and national security between the walls of this House, which we have seen and heard, but a decision of similar importance has perhaps been taken a hundred years ago. It's a historic moment, and as a result, it's our responsibility. There are no good choices or just bad ones. Each decision has its own profits and losses, as well as its benefits to the community and to its disadvantage. [[16.20]] Hungary needs at the same time the application of technologies based on domestic coal power plants, well-stocked nuclear power plants and renewables. The first advantage is that it is a domestic resource, its disadvantage is that it pollutes air, while the second investment costs a lot of money, it is a dangerous technology, but it produces cheaper, and the third one is environmentally friendly, but it is expensive, and today it produces priceless electricity by consumers. This is why we did not vote in 2011 for the exclusive use of one or another technology. The majority of Hungarian electricity consumers are also aware of this emergency situation, and this is the result of the significant social support of the peaceful use of nuclear energy to date. At the same time, the magnitude, danger, uncertainty about the final storage and recyclability of spent fuel requires as transparent as possible decision preparation, investment and subsequent operation involving society. In this respect, the less transparent government decisions of the last few years and the lack of an essential political consensus by the opposition on national strategy issues have led to the emergence of earlier social support for technology. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that the draft law before us does not serve to maintain and further strengthen social support, despite the fact that it intends to regulate a number of detailed issues relating to the construction of the power plant and the peaceful use of nuclear energy in a professionally sound way. I agree that the part of the data of the planned investment, the disclosure of which would harm or jeopardise Hungary's national security interests, should not be publicly available. However, I cannot agree that this should include data concerning Hungary's external action and relations with international organisations on the subject. Furthermore, I am concerned about the paragraph that, for the purposes of this Act, any data, facts, information the disclosure of which is considered to be a legitimate interest of the parties concerned, in particular its financial, economic or market interest, its right of personality would be violated or threatened. Finally, the decision-making data for the preparation of agreements or contracts will be encrypted for 15 years. The short paragraph that the authority empowered to carry out the installation and construction authorisation procedure for the investment is assisted by an international technical advisory body is also remarkable and revealing. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned earlier, after the expiry of the warranty of the Yalta Agreement, the world's redistribution is on the agenda. Hungary is in the middle of a geopolitical tectonic fault, in a conflicting zone of imperial interests, and in the reorganization of the global federal system, due to our housing situation, without questioning our rights and obligations with our Euroatlantic embeddedness, we must also take into account the possibilities and dangers of our cooperation with the forming Eurasian Alliance. It seems to me that the draft law before us recognises the compulsive framework for geopolitical manoeuvre of Hungary's investment in Paks, but at the same time excludes the Hungarian society that makes up the nation from the transparency of this historic agreement. After approximately HUF 4000 billion in investment in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant affects Hungary's secure and affordable energy supply, its current financial and environmental sustainability, its environmental and social well-being and finally the sovereignty of the country, the Hungarian society has the right to become aware of the agreements relating to and related to the investment in question, and its rights may be limited by the government and the National Assembly in the light of national security considerations. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2015-02-18-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2015-02-18-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, for my part, would like to draw attention to the radiation-health aspects of the bill on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks nuclear power plant before us and amending other laws, which have already been mentioned by a few speakers, and the challenges that lie ahead; we believe that the parts that have failed have already been revealed and I would like to present this in detail. The chapters on radiation health included in the proposal seem to have been incorporated into the legislation at all times, either inadequately or inconveniently. By the way, it is found in several places scattered throughout the legislation, sometimes in official supervision, and sometimes in separate paragraphs. It shows that the position of the National Institute for Radiation Biology and Radiation Health, as well as the National Office for Official Medicine, has not been properly or at all agreed that it has been made public, and that it has also become known to everyone, in which attention has also been drawn to these challenges. And it seems very much that these two bodies are the two authorities that are available in the highest radiation health system, whose opinions must be taken into account by the Ministry in the legislative process, in order to borrow today's term from one of the Fidesz representatives, he referred to a Top 50 company as to how important they were in terms of the EKAER, and this is not a Top 50, it is a top 1, 2, so it seems that if there was a discussion, it wasn't a good one, then it wasn't incorporated into the bill. So let me explain the most important challenges that have been revealed. The problem they face - and Jobbik agrees with that, because in radiation health, I think we have no reason to question the opinion of these bodies - is primarily that there is no consistency between the preamble to the law and the parts containing detailed rules, because the aim of the bill is to facilitate nuclear power plant investment and reduce energy dependence in Hungary. However, only a fraction of the bill deals with the regulation of this subject, the main scope of the proposal is the implementation of the National Atomic Energy Office's decommitment from other authorities, the aim of these proposals is to withdraw the powers of the Minister for Health's radiation protection and radiation health authority and to place it under the responsibility of the National Atomic Energy Office, which has nothing to do with the nuclear power plant investment. On the other hand, it is a problem that the proposal was drawn up without a full professional opinion, and the bill was drawn up without prior professional consultation, according to which the bodies did not have an opinion. This is precisely the quick and reckless proposal which jeopardises the principle of safe use of nuclear energy as defined by the Nuclear Power Act. As a further problem, the lack of medical skills and competence of the National Atomic Energy Office and its burden resulting from its priority tasks will also cause serious systemic problems. Currently, there are around 16,000 workers in Hungary, as you call them, more than half of them work in health care institutions, hospitals, clinics, dental clinics, and the vast majority of equipment that emit ionising radiation, including X-rays, CTs and others, operate in these health institutions. This basically justifies keeping the official oversight of these activities under the responsibility of the Minister for Health. Therefore, if official supervision is transferred to the National Atomic Energy Office, an unjustified extension of the strict regulation of the nuclear area would result in significant cost increases and malfunctions in healthcare institutions. In addition, similar attempts have already been made by the OAH to take over official powers, which have, among other things, been largely opposed by the competent medical schools and expressed disapproval. [[16.30]] In my view, the transfer of radiation health authority powers to the OAH will not only facilitate but also hinder the Paks expansion process during the official authorisation process. For OAH employees, the Paks license causes a great deal of strain, which is why they also asked for a headcount upgrade for the current task. By handing over radiation health authority powers, they would receive additional tasks that are unknown to them, have no experience in this regard, and this increased burden would result in difficulties in carrying out both Paks and the authorities they have taken over. In addition, practical experience proves that the National Atomic Energy Office does not carry out field measurements during its official controls, so it does not have a suitable instrument park for its future tasks. The OAH's official controls are currently carried out by contractors who are not fully qualified for radiation protection, contrary to legal provisions. This practice is also of concern from a data protection point of view, and is also of complete concern professionally. The other very interesting aspect, to which the two professional bodies have drawn attention, is the definition of radiation health without consulting the radiation health authorities and the proposal of CLIV 1997. Law 51 on radiation health It also makes the area where radiation health workers have to deal with rather confusing. In addition, there is a very simple withdrawal of powers in the legislation. The withdrawal of powers is justified by the need to separate radiation health and radiation protection, although the definition in the proposal calls into question why a large part of the powers have been transferred. In our firm opinion, the definition in the proposal is that the following powers should continue to fall within the competence of the health authorities, such as the authorisation and radiation protection certification of the placing on the market of anti-ionizing radiation protection equipment, the approval of the topics of radiation protection training and further training and the examination requirements, the assessment of the adequacy of foreign qualifications, the establishment of a normal and exceptional personal radiation protection control obligation for exposed workers and the registration of personal doses. However, it should also include setting dose limits and dose constraints for public exposure, setting dose limits for occupational exposure and approving dose restrictions. However, it should also be in the same place - so health services should also be involved - to supervise the organisation and operation of the radiation protection service operated by the licensee. Moreover, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the change is not only affecting the health sector. The withdrawal of the powers of the health authority would result in a major change that affects not only the sector, but also the task of government agencies under the authority of the Prime Minister's Office. It should be noted here that the explanatory statement of the bill wrongly mentions that a significant part of the powers of the Radical Health Authority belong to regional radiation health centres operating as part of the public health administration bodies of the Budapest and county government offices under the authority of the Minister for Health, since it is quite clear that these centres are in the organisation of government offices under the authority of the Prime Minister's Office. The reorganisation of the powers of the authorities also affects the powers of the Minister for the Environment and the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. Another critical observation is that it is unfortunate to jeopardise the success of the transposition of the Euratom Directive by withdrawing powers, as Hungary will have to implement 2013/59 by 6 February 2018. The transposition of the Euratom Directive. In our view, it is unfortunate that the legislative process should be conducted by a sector that has no experience or competence because of the new powers. Clearly, text-like legislative amendments to the reform of radiation health, which could have contributed to the consolidation of responsibilities, have been proposed in advance, or have not been approved by professional circles, and have been proposed by the competent bodies to the EMMI almost a year ago. It is therefore quite obvious that the Ministry, when drawing up and possibly consulting this bill, did not have or took into account the views of the competent bodies resulting from the consultation. It is therefore worth knowing what the Ministry's position will be in this regard. In this connection, representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement in health care and nuclear power have already turned to the Ministry with a written question, to which we will respectfully await the answers, but here you can say your views orally. Otherwise, we will also present a legislative proposal amending these legislative provisions, which are extremely detrimental and harmful to radiation health, in order to keep radiation health safe for the old, well-known people and for the profession. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-02-18-138	We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-02-18-139	Thank you very much. It seems that the LMP today demonstrates its eco-beneficiality by bringing together a lot of vegetables in this House. Congressman Sallai, I respect you as President of the Commission and as a Member, but because I said that this investment will create jobs on the energy agenda for the expansion of Paks, we do not want to install a nuclear power plant in every county; I do not know where you got that from, it is a huge demagogy. And the other - which I also do not know where it came from in my words - is that we were talking about energy independence on this item. This is on the agenda, so I cannot talk about our food independence or our independence in any other way, because that is not on the agenda. Of course, Jobbik also supports these independences, as can be read in its professional programme: besides the country's energy independence, our food self-determination, as well as the rest, and the rest. It seems to me that the LMP has put a new independence on its flag, independence from common sense. On that basis, at least what you have said, I am sorry, fellow Member, but I can filter this. And you're referring to polling data: well, they're really only good at proving everything and the opposite of everything with the same polling data. What Greenpeace ordered, and what you're doing here in Parliament, is the exact opposite of what's posted at the nuclear power plant's visitor center, where they show 73 percent support for nuclear power plants. One was ordered by an anti-nuclear organization and the other by a nuclear power plant. The truth is obviously between the two, probably all of them equally far from reality. So we're just gonna have to see reality again. What is important to Hungarian people? The important thing for Hungarian people is not to constantly hide questionnaires under their noses, let politics live on them, and obviously the most important thing is that they have jobs, bread on their table, and yes, electricity in the outlet; but where the electricity comes from - it is more important for them to have cheap and secure access to this electricity. If someone is asked if he wants green electricity, who is in Hungary today who would say he doesn't want green electricity? Everyone obviously wants to, but the realities have to be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. András Aradski applauds.]]
u2015-02-18-140	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr. Tamás Harangozó will have the floor.
u2015-02-18-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We listened to Mr Bencsik's comment, and although we didn't understand exactly what it was about in the first five minutes, I didn't think of Lajos Kossuth and the Romans through the mysteries of capitalism. [[János Bencsik intervenes.]] I will tell you honestly - my fellow Member will wait for the end - what it is difficult to say about this law as a fidesz, of course, especially because today Parliament is negotiating a law that is one of the nation's greatest thefts and the damage to citizens, according to our judgement. However, we were shocked to hear that our fellow Member Bencsik came to the same position, and obviously we do not agree with what our fellow Member thinks, for example, of the location of the imperial buffer zone in Hungary, because we think that we know exactly where this country belongs and where we want it to be; this is Europe, and we can create all kinds of other foreign policy relations. But that is also not the subject of today's bill, so I would like to turn back to what we agree on. We agree that there may be reasons for national security, and we also agree with what you have said, that everything else that is going on here is damage to the Hungarian people, to the Hungarian people, to make the investment disappear, to hide it and to prepare for the greatest possible corruption in the nation, what Parliament is doing here today. [[16.40]] I'll have one. I would like a clear answer from the Secretary of State, Mr Aradski, on his opinion on the Fidesz faction's opinion here. And since the Fidesz fraction is represented here by no more than three, as I see it, I conclude that Mr Bencsik's position is the same as that of the Fidesz fraction. If not, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary or my fellow Member from Tolna County to state whether this is the official position of Fidesz and whether this law will be voted down, because otherwise there cannot be any other fate of this law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-02-18-142	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman Sallai Benedek.
u2015-02-18-143	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I did not intend to have a debate here with my better fellow Member, but in our area it is the same as the best, so if you hadn't mentioned the LMP, I wouldn't have said anything. But at the same time, I had to talk about what kind of energy independence we're talking about. Dependence on Putin is everything, almost independence; so that was the first thing I referred to if it wasn't understandable. The second one, which was not clear, was that my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, said on the pulpit that this survey was carried out on Media, so Greenpeace itself did not ask its own activists, like Paks, to ask their own employees about the surveys; so I would not compare the two. And the other, let me recite one more thing. As a Jobbikos MEP, I am also sympathetic to him, he said that the MSZP, Fidesz, is pro-investment and is always behind everything, and large investments should not be supported in this way, because this is an opportunity for abuse. At the same time, Jobbik says that it supports this Paks development. Well, then Jobbik is also in favour of large investments, because that's all he's doing, because it's a big investment. I wanted to refer you back to these. One more minute, I would like to answer with great respect to the Secretary of State of Aradsk, as Mr Répássy has set an example of how he participated in the debate today, and it would be good to have some answers if he did not give us an answer in the closing word. Let me draw your attention to two specific things, and I'd appreciate it if you'd respond. One: why do you have to encrypt it? This was not mentioned in the opening lectures or speeches. Why does this have to be encrypted, why is it encrypted for 15 years? Why does everything have to be encrypted? That's if we could get a sensible answer. The other thing I'm interested in - I just asked a fellow Member - was Mrs Bernadett Szél referred to President Attila Péterfalvi's letter: is this what the government is planning to answer? If you plan, what are your answers? Or is there any way you can respond to it in a few points? We'd be happy to give you this if you don't like it, but as it turns out, you got it, too. It would be good if we could get reactions to these and have a dialogue on this. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-18-144	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman János Bencsik.
u2015-02-18-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened with great interest to the two-minute speech of my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó. I understand that you did not fully understand the first five minutes of my speech, since it contained the outline of a complex historical and geopolitical framework. However, it is surprising to me that you did not listen to what was said in the last third. After all, he tried to chew into my mouth a little later, which was not mentioned in my speech. So I didn't talk about stealing or corruption. I was just saying that, in the case of such a large investment, which is a rather important and high priority investment in Hungary from a national and national security point of view, it is not possible to say to each of its elements, to each of its data, that it is a data protected from a national security point of view, and that Hungarian society has no right to provide or access to, and to transcend, these data. That is what my speech was about, and I hope that the energy trades and energy policy issues in the middle were understandable and listened to by my fellow Members, Mr Harangozó, in which I have been trying to point out that the country is in a rather vulnerable position in terms of electricity security, i.e. very disciplined, professionally, economically and in terms of sustainability, but also taking into account the overall interests of society, a healthy energy mix, a sustainable electricity supply system should be provided over the next two decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-18-146	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr István Ikotity, LMP.
u2015-02-18-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, János Fónagy's reference to the French example that the data is encrypted there is incorrect. A nuclear power plant has not yet been built in Europe to respect the time and financial framework that has been undertaken. And we know that because of the fact that these data are public. Paks II. in case of this, no one can know what my Rosatom has undertaken, for how much and for what time limit. This opens up endless possibilities for misuse of public funds. Antal Rogán mentioned the Finnish example recently, where Rosatom also builds a power plant. He said that what's public there will be public record for us as well. In the case of the Finnish power plant, the important technical and financial parameters are public, they are on the Internet and can be found at the moment. So weirdly, it's not the way he mentioned it, because we have everything classified. We are fundamentally opposed to nuclear energy because it presents an unpredictable environmental risk and has countless negative benefits, costs that are often forgotten. But even the pro-Atomics acknowledge that public opinion can only accept a nuclear facility if, from the first blueprints, from impact assessments to cost plans, as much information as possible is public information of public interest. Where there is secrecy, political and corruption aspects, compulsions appear. There is no possibility of admitting mistakes, the professional community has no insight into these risks. And this is literally life-threatening. Don't forget, it's a nuclear power plant. Of course, this can cause fear in people, for what happens if anything happens in a nuclear power plant that happens very rarely in nuclear power plants, will these people not even know about it? Like you didn't know about it in the Soviet Union? These are very weird and very scary things that are projected and projected. If there's no publicity, what's the basis for mentioning payback indicators? If we do not know when and what Rosatom has undertaken as part of the EUR 12 billion investment and what Hungary should be building, how dare you defend this construction at all? On what basis do they have the courage to decide for decades on the debt of Hungarian people? Some practical examples that will probably throw this final bill. There'll be a few years when your plans are Paks and Paks II. will operate in parallel, producing 60% of electricity production. Well, this power needs to be delivered somehow. The infrastructure needed for the supply of electricity, the power lines, to whom will they be issued? Or another example of night power. Even today, we are generating huge excess of night power. You say it's possible to shut down the power plant by night, but in this case, there's no way in which the 90 percent power generation efficiency mentioned by the government is being based on which the return is based. That's probably 50 percent. The other possible solution that we are applying now is to sell the night power to Austria for pennies, where it is stored in a pumped gravity power plant, and then buy it back at the daytime price when they start to drain the water in the morning. This is already a loss of HUF 60-80 billion per year to the country. This cost is no longer included in the price of the Paks electricity. After enlargement, this amount will even increase, as compared to the current one, we will start to produce, and we will have to deal with, double the number of night currents. Or are you planning to build a gravitational power plant and its associated reservoir in one of our rooms? This has a cost of a thousand billion dollars, not to mention the destruction of the environment. I wonder if my Rust is gonna pay for this, or is it gonna cost us? We'll also need a backup power plant with the same power output as the largest Paks block. That's why there's enough power in the network in case of a malfunction. Will the Rosatom undertake this either on Hungarian own or will, of course, use additional budgetary resources? Because of secrecy, too, we have reason to suspect that they have no reassuring answers to these questions and a series of other questions that citizens and energy experts who are concerned about their livelihoods, the environment, economic independence are rightfully concerned. If you were to disclose the current classified, planned data, it would be clear to everyone that the Paks expansion is unreasonable and that the country does not really need this expansion or the Russian currency loan. Thank you. [[16.50]]
u2015-02-18-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. I can't give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, because it's coming one after another. Two-minute contributions will be made; first, Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-02-18-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would rather not continue the discussion on public opinion polling, but respond to the other's suggestion to the Member, since in both cases it is obvious that it is not the people who conducted the polls that should be looked at, but the client. But I'll keep that in parentheses. The Congressman reads to us that large investments are supported by Jobbik. It's not the big investment that's basically the problem, because if you said that, you wouldn't be building factories, roads, churches or schools. Large investments are a problem when there is a government that uses large investments to drain public funds. That's what Jobbik is up against, which is a huge difference. The country's commitment to Russia through the construction of the nuclear power plant is a financial credit facility. We are saying that it promotes energy independence because we know that nuclear power plants, although the fuel is basically purchased from abroad, can accumulate even longer reserves, can also be purchased diversified. So we do promote energy independence, because we produce electricity in Hungary. The other is that we would very much like Hungarian society to be more interested in sustainability and green ideas than at present. That is why we Members of Parliament have a very big responsibility; but it is justified and not so - as I have already said - with false green demagoguery, because people are not buying it. How much people are buying, I think, is exactly what the LMP's popularity indicator shows. I think it is in the interests of all of us that Hungary should be a sustainable country, so that we can produce clean electricity and ensure the future of this country for our children and grandchildren in the long term. But we are trying to do this responsibly, thinking responsibly, as a single party in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-18-150	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr. Tamás Harangozó will have the floor.
u2015-02-18-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Benchik, Dear Parliament, What you said about the bill in substance, let's be clear once again, we agree on that to almost a hundred percent. And I didn't want to put it in your mouth that this is the law of preparation for the greatest theft and corruption in the world. That is our opinion, and we will continue to maintain it, and make no mistake. But when we think back to what you said, I'm afraid I'm just gonna say what you don't want to say as a fidesz congressman. After all, if we accept what you are saying - and once again, this is a perfectly fair, fair position, and I do not wish to harm you personally - which is information to be protected from a national security point of view, please protect it. And what's not, let's go public. And how much, what kind of contract, what conditions and how you participate in a construction project, it is certain that it is not important information, technological specifications and other things from a national security point of view. But the question of national security, my fellow Members, is the question of how and how, when we are talking about HUF 3000 000 billion, what kind of company, what sub-contractor, is involved in such an investment. If you are adopting this law and you really want to spend this money by excluding the entire public, well, that is the national security risk, my fellow Members, and that national security risk will not expire after 15 years, I would like to say this to you. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-02-18-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai Benedek.
u2015-02-18-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A few things have come up in my mind as a question, and I would once again like to thank the Secretary of State for his involvement in the dialogue, because I am very afraid that he will want to say the reactions in a closed manner when we will no longer have a chance to react. It would be good to avoid this, because this is not the way to have a fair dialogue. Mr Bencsik said relatively specific data on the increase in energy consumption and the decline in production. This raised very, very important questions in me, which also led me to an interesting dilemma. Because the question in me is how can Fidesz or Jobbik talk about meeting energy needs and energy needs when we don't even know exactly how much it is. We know how long it's been. We know how much was in 2013. But how do we know what would happen if we took the path offered by LMP, the choice of insulation and energy efficiency of every rural family house in Hungary. If we change all the windows, if we do the building engineering improvements, that we transform the public lighting everywhere, if we do the energy efficiency modernisation of public institutions, and we do this in the entire Hungarian rural society, how can we know how energy demand will develop then. No calculation can calculate this, and no calculation can assess what the country's real energy needs are on a path that we would have offered to Hungarian society, and what we wanted you to represent with a very high mandate from Hungarian society, with two thirds of them. We would like to talk about energy demand, so let us first look at the possibility of reducing energy demand. Once again, I am referring to Mr Bencsik's speech when he said the sentence that the LMP has virtually continuously represented over the last year: there is no alternative to reducing energy use. I hope I wrote that sentence well and literally. But Fidesz proves that there is an alternative to reducing energy consumption, Paks, when I want to produce even more, and I do not want to achieve a reduction in use. We need to look at European indicators on how Hungary has performed on energy efficiency issues. Let us look at how we have fallen back in terms of energy efficiency and energy saving improvements, and how we should do this everywhere in Hungarian society. It is important when it comes to job creation, the countryside and jobs in general, because if we were to start on this road, we would not be doing a centralised development, but we would be able to develop it everywhere in the country, there would be traffic at every fireplace, there would be a possibility for every local construction firm to have family houses - all of them know rural Hungary as a representative, where traditional crap houses and apartments, not block houses and garages dominate the regions - so if we tried to transform a multitude of family houses next to each other, what would our energy needs be like. They can't answer that right now. When we begin to think about what kind of Paks development is needed, how many new reactors would be needed, well, this should have been prevented from doing this first across the country, giving each municipality the opportunity to transform all its public institutions. Let's provide households with the possibility that they can replace the old Saratov refrigerator, not just for B and C, but for A plus plus plus plus plus, plus, I don't know what kind of household appliances serve energy efficiency. We did not do this, this is the step that has been missed, and that is why we do not really know what real energy needs would be in Hungary. And one very important thing; Mr Secretary of State also referred to the energy needs of industry and industrial development in his introductory sentence. This is obviously very, very important, but it is only a strategic question of what kind of industrial development and what kind of employment strategy a government intends to implement in society. The trend of 20 years ago is that economic development and energy use go hand in hand and go straight up. It's not like that anymore. There are now many alternatives to economic development to avoid increasing energy use. Obviously, there are sectors that automatically imply the same thing, but due to its natural characteristics Hungary would have the opportunity not to start on such a path, but on an economic development that does not involve a direct increase in energy demand. That's what we'd expect the government to have a competent position. Before you start doing something like this, you first use the money to assess the country's real energy needs, what it'll be like in 20 years, when everything's going to be sour, and everything's going to be even more energy-efficient, and you'll also have the development of family homes to make even more use of renewable energy-based systems in farm farms and farm farms, with very, very small amounts of money, but your government will also support and help you develop. If we did all this, we'd know what we needed. [[17.00]] Then it would be possible to come at a crossroads to see how the energy needs that we have received can be secured. And it all came out of nowhere. If I have just asked Mr Secretary of State two specific questions, I feel free to ask that question. How will we know that this responds to real needs when it practically does not respond to future needs, even though it is built on the future, but responds to past needs? It responds to our energy needs in 2012, 2013 or at any time earlier. That's the background to all of this that we can't accept. I think my colleague Lajos Kepli will not be mad at me if we stop playing ping-pong between Jobbik and LMP. We don't want to put ourselves in a position where the MSZ is fighting the Fides, and we're fighting each other, and that doesn't seem like it. Obviously, we disagree. I practically reacted to what you said so that Hungarian society would know clearly what the serious things are, in which we disagree to a large extent. Because we would also disagree on a number of other issues if they had come up with hydroelectric power plants or aqueducts or anything else. Because we believe that the natural characteristics of the country are the framework where the independence of the country must be ensured in all fields of expertise. This is what we represent consistently. I can't, I can't, call it poison greens and demagogues, but that's exactly the approach that makes a nation independent and independent, which the LMP would like to achieve. That is why I do not want us to continue the debate ourselves. I would very much like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his reaction now and for the opportunity to have another dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2015-02-18-154	Thank you. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, two minutes.
u2015-02-18-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's one thing I want to make clear. I understand Jobbik's dissociative state, because it's very difficult to talk about independence when we know exactly that they stand for all the projects that the Russians are involved in. Knowing politics, we can certainly be sure that this is not for the two beautiful eyes of the Russians. On the other hand, I would like to state one thing: it is not false greenness that in Hungary the XXI. In the century, a group of representatives in the Hungarian Parliament dares to say that the future is not nuclear energy. 2009 was the last year when nuclear energy and renewable energies competed with each other at, like, a price. Since then, the price of nuclear power has been going up, precisely because security risks have increased the price of this energy carrier. Since 2009, the price of renewable energy has been decreasing. This means that they are more economically competitive, good for the country, good for the households and good for the planet Earth. What does the Fidesz-KDNP government do with alternative energy sources? He's taxing them. And what does he do with nuclear energy? He's building two more blocks to make sure that God knows how many times we have capacity in this country for many years. And that's what you call capacity maintenance, when it's quite clear that there's going to be a time in this country when we won't know what to do with all that electricity. They keep telling me that the two energy carriers can fit side by side, the nuclear and the alternative. Please, there's no room for each other. The energy revolution is about switching to decentralised energy, which means that families, households, can participate in energy production themselves, and they will not be dependent on you. And you can't steal enough money from the Paks II project in the name of corruption to cement your power for many years. There is a huge risk of corruption in this project, and the law that you have just put on the table, and what your own fellow Member, Mr Benchik, has criticized in several places, is precisely that you want to steal it in secret.
u2015-02-18-156	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take a stand. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State indicated that he wished to respond on behalf of the rapporteurs to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-18-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I understand Mr Sallai R. Benedict's invitation, and I would have done it in my heart, but I think that the attitude to fundamental questions has prevented me from reacting to this. In fact, before I express my opinion on what has been said here, allow me to thank you for the part of the substantive debate that was not filled with accusations and overshadowed opinions, but we have been around the nature of the energy strategy in many cases, and we have examined the extent to which the capacity-building investment is justified by Paks. We haven't said a lot of new things to each other in this, that's the truth. However, I would like to underline and stress that the Fidesz-KDNP faction and the government are on the ground of the energy strategy adopted in 2011, which said that its aim is to be independent of dependence in energy management in 2050, i.e. we are trying to turn Hungary into energy production that makes Hungary less vulnerable to external energy sources. This includes capacity-building in relation to Paks, including fossil energy, which is based essentially on lignite, and can, of course and we hope, be of decisive importance to the use of green renewable energy in Hungary by 2030. And, of course, I should have started with that first, because the energy strategy itself is about the fundamental interest of Hungarian society, including the Hungarian economy, in increasing energy efficiency and energy savings. I believe that these fundamentals are absolutely necessary to ensure that nothing has changed with regard to why we have introduced this bill, why we say that the investment in Paks and the investment in capacity maintenance remain. In support of this, I quoted the 2014 International Energy Agency report, which stated in white that neglecting nuclear energy in Europe is a serious competitive disadvantage for the European economy. By the way, by looking at the 2030 outlook, World Energy Outlook's 2014 publication talks about what our energy strategy is talking about, that by increasing energy efficiency, saving, raising renewables and maintaining nuclear capacity, energy supply can be ensured in the most efficient way for Hungary; even if this energy consumption is reduced thanks to our luck and greenhouse gas emission reductions. So the goal that we set in 2011 is also a goal for others, and others are calculating it in a way that is sufficiently western and modern for researchers, that the Hungarian energy strategy can be maintained and is in the right direction. But the reason I abstained from commenting on what was said in the debate was that the criticism of the law basically went in two directions. One of the most important aims of the criticism is to make material and contracts related to the implementation public. Everyone thought and says that they were here in Parliament that we wanted to achieve this capacity expansion secretly, in a state of corruption, and, after these sentences, I have a very strong assurance that my fellow Members, you have not read the bill tabled. If you allow me, I will read the section on this matter:. Access to the implementation agreements provided for in Article 8 of the Convention in connection with the investment may be refused to access all data relating to the contracts concluded by the main contractor, the subcontractors and the contract concluded by the customer and their preparation and conclusion, and may not be required, in the event of and only in the event that its disclosure would prejudice or jeopardise the national security interests of Hungary and would violate intellectual property rights. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.10]] This sentence, with all due respect, does not say that information on the investment of a nuclear power plant can and must be fully encrypted, but sets out a principle, a general, international and national security-relevant reason, which makes this disclosure limited. This is primarily the reason for national security and, of course, intellectual property, the protection of which is otherwise required and supported by other laws. By the way, I must add that these approaches were included in the legislation currently in force. The purpose of the law is to know - and I think everyone agrees with that - that we are not building a gym, but that it is a very sensitive, high-cost, very important investment, which, as I said in my expo, was the last one built in 1980. Since 1980, we have produced a great deal of legislation, a lot of legislation that has been passed on the operation of nuclear power, but there has not been a targeted legislative environment that would interpret the legislation currently in force in relation to the capacity expansion of a nuclear power plant. This is the fundamental purpose of this Regulation, and that is why it puts things into the legislation, into the draft, which make it clear how and by what legal means it is possible to build the blocks necessary for capacity building clearly efficiently, quickly and safely. I think that, if we look at this, the purpose of this regulation is understandable and it is understandable. I stress that on the most controversial issue of restricting the use of information or access to information, this bill does not bring any new rules, and it is also possible to refuse access to this information for reasons of national security. There is only one new element, and I sign this, that a certain section of the Freedom of Information Act has already provided that documents created in preparation of decisions can be denied access for 10 years. This time limit has been raised to 15 years, which is undoubtedly the case in the proposal, but the principle, the fundamental rights institution, has been and will continue to exist in other similar cases when it protects the protection of the documents prepared in the preparation for data security reasons. 15 years is the guiding rule of international practice, an international practice in which the legislator allows similar protection in the proceedings, i.e. for reasons of national security and in order to protect intellectual property rights. Of course, in these cases, the course of appeal is not closed to the data seeker if he does not agree with the rating. I must therefore stress once again: there is no substantive change or difference on this issue, as this rule already entered into the public procurement approach around 2011 that if we conclude the contract with a third country, a non-EU country, that is not covered by the Public Procurement Act. Why it had to be repeated and why it had to be confirmed by drawing up this draft legislation is enough to refer back to the fact that we are not building a gymnasium. From a good point of view and from the point of view of the enforcer, it is appropriate and desirable that a clear, clear set of transparent legislation for the efficient and targeted implementation of investment and capacity building should also be developed as a key part of the law enforcement, investors and public authorities. I think it is very important that the bill seeks to address the concerns when it strengthens the operational capacity and competence of the National Atomic Energy Office and strengthens the physical and personal conditions. In this respect, the Hungarian Government has taken a number of steps to support the operation of the National Atomic Energy Office from the budgetary side and to concentrate on the expertise, the expertise that it needs to be able to allow, monitor the process of the investment with sufficient certainty, scientific and professional basis, and to be able to act professionally in the authorisation procedures. So if we follow what has been said and read the text of the proposal carefully, and I have to say that if we put aside our political blindness and only apply the rules of reading, writing and interpretation, then we have to realise that there is no such thing as a general ban in this draft legislation that prevents public opinion or public opinion from having access to the specific information. Therefore, if you quote Mr. Antal Rogán, you dared to say that what is public there in Finland will be public with us as well. I stress that the contracts that have been signed, valid, which are related to the investment - I stress that they are valid and in force - are not yet available, so we do not have anything to load on the Internet. But I very much hope and hope that this will happen, because the existence and applicability of this is not hindered, but clarified, and rather facilitated by clarification and clarification. On this basis, I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will put aside your concerns on the professional side of the capacity building of the nuclear power plant, especially on the LMP side, because I do not know if Anita Heringes has said that she is in favour of capacity expansion. [[Anita Heringes: Secretary of State! Mr. Secretary.]] But those in favour of this proposal are in favour of increasing the capacity to implement our independent and dependent energy strategy, and those in favour of this proposal can also support our non-public proposal, and I am asking you to do so in Parliament's work in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-18-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. Title of his speech: The system invented to bring the disabled to work is inoperable. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-18-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The system designed to bring the disabled to work is not working - this is the title of my speech. I do not intend to participate in the latest language policy struggles of the EMMI, so I will quickly correct myself and the title: instead of the disabled, I would like to talk about people with disabilities. We have read numbers in many places about how the employment rate of our fellow countrymen with disabilities has changed in recent years. I do not want to argue with the numbers, but I would like to point out, through a person with a health problem, the life situations that give a more real picture of the effects of government measures. This citizen receives a rehabilitation allowance of HUF 29 830, which would allow him to work for up to 4 hours, otherwise he would lose his care. In the area, however, there is no job suitable for him, even in public work they do not start a four-hour program. You will not receive any assistance in finding a job, you will be sent from your office to find an employer who would hire you, and then the employment centre will conclude the grant agreement. He can't pay his bills out of the HUF 29 000, and from March he will also be deprived of housing support, which will make his situation impossible. Now I'd like to read your letter. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As a disabled resident, I appeal to you about social care for people with disabilities, their place in the labour market and the creation of equal opportunities. Today, the Hungarian public is very concerned with poverty, social inequality, the break-down and drop-off of social groups. [[17.20]] Unfortunately, there is no mention of those layers of extreme poverty, hopeless situation, where I belong. From 1 January 2014, because I have a 60 percent change in working capacity based on the complex rating, I would have to make a living from HUF 29 830 per month. I could do 20-hour office work a week, with strict checks, reporting obligations, a lot of bureaucratic procedures, if we could find a job in our neighborhood that fits the rehabilitation proposal. However, there is no job opportunities for healthy workers in the small white-collar region, up to a few months of community work in the municipalities, which does not allow them to work for 20 hours a week. As a rehabilitation provider, I do not benefit from a travel discount, I have to advance travel expenses related to regular specializations for 6 months, because this is the amount of time available to recover travel expenses. We didn't get any help looking for a job, and the last time the deputy head of agency suggested that I find an employer who would hire me, and then the employment centre would conclude the grant agreement. Registered job seekers are subsequently reimbursed for certified ticket costs in relation to job search, but not for job seekers in receipt of rehabilitation care. There is an unfair, socially insensitive whole system of legislation in relation to people with disabilities. It is impossible without effective support and regulation of the system of government institutions to return to the world of workers. The withdrawal of social benefits in force from March 2014 also affects those receiving rehabilitation benefits. As a maintenance allowance, they have contributed 4100 HUF per month to my gas bill, which was very helpful to me. The discretion given to local authorities increases even more the power of mayors, as in the villages, it is still the ones who have the right to public employment and social benefits who must show their loyalty to the local administration. I didn't accept my unfair position, I'm about to go to my first trial. Unfortunately, I won't have a legal representative, since I can't afford a lawyer. I would ask the honourable Members of Parliament to present my proposals and suggestions to Parliament, to make fairer, fairer, socially correct legislative amendments to the interests of those who have changed their ability to work. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. All I would add to this is that three years ago, the government brought the disabled back to the labour market by bringing them back to work during the three years of rehabilitation. Today, this system is inoperative, as this citizen's case clearly shows. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-02-18-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame, address of your speech: What have you done so far? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2015-02-18-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The Minister of Defence talked about a great deal at the annual evaluation and task management meeting, including urgent helicopter procurement, the need to develop defence policy programmes and the urgent need to develop the Hungarian military industry. Then the question arises: otherwise, Csaba Hende would have just realized the need for all this? What have you done in the last five years, that no progress has been made on these issues? We have seen that in 2010 Fidesz's defence programme was a sentence that national defence was a national matter; this could be enhanced in 2014 when the programme was only about . We continue to do so. Unfortunately, Csaba Hende continued to do what he had done in the past four years, and I find it unprecedented that a defense minister, after a five-year reignation, suggests the need for a defence policy programme; I think that this is unprecedented. So we can see that no progress has been made against the promises either in the necessary improvements or in the development of the Hungarian military industry. I asked the Minister how the implementation of the Hadik plan was, and he replied in writing to this question, that he had listed the programmes that had already been launched by socialist governments, such as the car procurement programme, which was part of it, so it seems that there has been no progress in the development of the Hungarian military industry. At this meeting, the Minister mentioned the creation of a new procurement office. That's just weird because it's the third time the defense purchasing organization is being transformed by the Minister of Defense. After asking why this is necessary in his view and how he intends to do so, in addition to receiving an extremely incomplete answer to my question, he said that such a separate procurement office is necessary because of the importance of the purchasing area and the importance of military technical developments. For someone who hasn't done anything in these developments in the last five years, it's interesting that he wants to reorganize defence procurement organizations right now. Now we've seen what Csaba Hende didn't do; let's see what is the balance of his so far ministry. This is extremely depressing, as we can see that more than HUF 200 billion has been withdrawn from the Hungarian Defence Fund in recent years. The 2015 budget is also extremely depressing, despite the attempt by the minister to show some growth in numbers; it is a matter of fact that, when looking at the budget for defence in the planned GDP, it was 0.79 per cent of GDP in 2014, and only 0.75 per cent of GDP is planned by 2015. The amount of support, which shows an increase of just over HUF 5 billion, is that, by the way, the Hungarian Defence Office received extra tasks as a public event organisation, it received HUF 760 million, HUF 3 billion for war grave care, and, by the way, only HUF 1.5 billion for the basic tasks, although I think that precisely to preserve the operationality of the defence, the amount of basic task provision should be increased in order to develop it. The balance of his ministry, that the defence's assets are completely outdated, much of his abilities are at the end of the day. We see this with regard to helicopter capability, we see that it is still only a fantasy and it is still a fiction to put out helicopter tenders, while the Minister allowed Viktor Orbán to use the Hungarian Defence Force as a simple propaganda tool. Remember, when they paraded at the Fradi Stadium at Gripe when Viktor Orbán gave his party political speech on 23 October in front of soldiers. So I think this is untenable in the future. So, following the Minister's recent statements, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Once again, it has been proven that the defence political leadership is unable to ensure that the military is still operational. [[The president's ringing again.]] irresponsible and unfit to carry out his duties. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-18-162	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first meeting of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 20 February 2014. Thank you for your work. Good evening. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:29 p.m.]]
