u2015-05-27-0	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The 32nd day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that József Attila Móring and Ádám Mirkóczki will be attending the meeting to help me. I also welcome our guests and those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Mr László Szászfalvi, on behalf of the KDNP, he applied for a pre-meeting address entitled "Decent and humane implementation". You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Legal enforcement affects citizens' rights and interests, both debtors and enforcement seekers. The constitutional task of the State is to ensure the enforcement of claims, the enforcement of judicial decisions. To this end, it should operate an effective but humane enforcement system. In recent years, there have been a lot of complaints about enforcement cases: 10 percent of the recovery commission due to the executioner at that time is unrealisticly high, interest charges and other costs are unbearably high, executives abuse their powers and irregularities in proceedings. The KDNP fraction, taking up the case due to complaints concerning enforcement cases negotiated with a number of NGOs. In 2013, the government was able to amend the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement on its own motion by the representatives of KDNP. Law. At the same time, the Law No 14/1994 on judicial enforcement tariffs was amended. IM Regulation to reduce executive remuneration. The government's actions continued in 2014, and Minister of Justice László Trócsányi appointed a Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Chamber of Executives of the Hungarian Court of Justice in December 2014. Its task was to investigate complaints, the disciplinary system, the conduct of checks and the supervision of economic legality. Any financial commitment of the Chamber, the acceptance of the performance of the contracts and the approval of the payments were necessary. Acting under the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Justice, the Hungarian Chamber of Executives has ordered a full screening and audit of the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Justice, during which the Ministry of Justice has detected at several points and on several issues circumstances where there is suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed. On 27 March 2015, the Ministry of Justice filed a criminal complaint against an unidentified unsub in the Budapest Investigative Prosecutor's Office on the grounds of a serious suspicion of misappropriation. Dear Parliament, Last week, the government submitted the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. a proposal to amend certain laws, and in this context. The purpose of the amendment is to restore public trust in justice. The appointment of an executive shall be for seven years, which may be extended by tender. In order to become a legal profession of the executive profession, the executioner, the deputy executives, must have a legal degree by 2022. The Chamber will be terminated and will be transformed into the Faculty of Hungarian Court Executives by succession. In the future, public tasks relating to implementation would be carried out by the Office of the Faculty, the Office of the Faculty, the head of which will be appointed by the Minister for seven years. The administrative body shall provide for the use of the general implementation cost allowance and shall also have the Chamber's assets. The rules of disciplinary action will also be amended on the basis of the proposal. The law gives the prosecutor the opportunity to complete the disciplinary report on the basis of a report by the investigating officer, and within 30 days of the disciplinary report, the court will be obliged to initiate proceedings in order to enable the disciplinary procedure to actually fulfil its purpose. Dear Parliament, Over the past decades, there have been a lot of complaints about implementation in Hungary, and the Orbán government alone has heard these many complaints. Both the measures so far and the current ones have served and serve the purpose of ensuring fair and humane implementation, implementation and implementation in Hungary. KDNP will support the government's efforts in this direction, its intentions in this regard, and here in Parliament, outside Parliament, will support the government's efforts to establish a truly fair and truly humane enforcement system in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári and András Tállai applaud.]]
u2015-05-27-2	On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond.
u2015-05-27-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your speech, because this will allow me to discuss this very important issue, a very important bill here, in front of the Parliament's agenda. More than 20 years ago, in 1994, the Law on the Modernization of the Organisation of Judicial Enforcement, the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement, entered into force. Law. The implementing law established the independent judicial enforcement institution as the general organisational form of judicial enforcement. In the new organisational structure, the judicial enforcement body was separated from the judicial organisation and the supervisory authority over the executive body was given to the Minister of Justice. For the purpose of carrying out administrative tasks related to the organisation of implementation, the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court of Justice was established. The Chamber was responsible for representing and protecting the interests of its members, i.e. executives, deputy executives and executive candidates, and for carrying out the tasks related to implementation, defined by law, of a primarily administrative nature. Due to the well-founded criticisms of the organisation of judicial enforcement, the government has set the objective of reforming the organisation of judicial enforcement. The amendment of the implementing law at the end of 2014 created the opportunity for the Minister of Justice to appoint a ministerial commissioner for the Chamber's supervision and its appointment took place last December. It was appointed in order to obtain an accurate and credible picture of the operation of the organisation. Based on the results of the work of the Minister's Commissioner, the Ministry of Justice developed the concept of renewal of the organisation, and on 20 May presented the bill to Parliament to implement the concept. On the basis of the proposal, in the event of its parliamentary adoption, the statutory public tasks relating to implementation will continue to be performed by a legal person, the faculty, the executive faculty, but the organisational structure of this legal person will be substantially modified in comparison to the rules on the Chamber. The performance of public tasks related to implementation will be subject to direct public supervision on the basis of the proposal, in order to ensure that they are carried out by the department of the faculty whose head will be appointed by the Minister of Justice. We also want to ensure that the assets accumulated since the establishment of the Chamber are used to carry out the public tasks related to implementation, in line with the legislative objective, and therefore, on the basis of the proposal, the Chamber's assets will be transferred to the faculty and that the organisational unit, appointed by the Minister under the leadership of the law, will be entitled to dispose of the wealth in the future. Although the acquisition of university law since the amendment of the implementing law in 2012, is a condition of appointment, there is still a significant proportion within the executive faculty of those who do not have a legal degree. Due to the complexity and complexity of the rules on enforcement procedures, a wide range of legal knowledge is needed to conduct enforcement procedures. [[8.10]] Therefore, the proposal makes it compulsory for all executives to acquire a degree in law by 2022, and also to employ a staff member with legal qualifications during the transitional period until the legal degree is obtained. As the deputy executives themselves are entitled to carry out an enforcement action on behalf of the executing officer, they should also be subject to this higher requirement as a condition of appointment, so the proposal provides for a university degree as a condition for appointment instead of a secondary school degree for executives. The Member has presented the most important elements of the proposal and, of course, we will have the opportunity to discuss this bill in detail in the Parliament, but the most important thing is to restore public confidence in the enforcement of the court and thus the public confidence which has been shaken against the wider justice system. To this end, the bill before us, the bill on the table of Parliament, will strengthen the institutions with which we can strengthen public confidence. Please accept my reply. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-4	Dear Parliament, Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, spoke before the next agenda, on behalf of the MSZP: on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The topicality of my speech before today's agenda is that today the House will start negotiating the 2016 budget. Now I do not want to give a very long contribution to the fact that it is May 2015 and we are already discussing the 2016 budget without knowing how and how this year will end. But in fact, in order to talk about the proposal submitted and its social policy and the challenges facing distribution systems, the government has submitted a hit-and-run budget at the moment. This is not surprising, because over the past four years, it has systematically dismantled all social, municipal, health and educational institutions, which in our everyday life, through the media, clearly shows that deep transformations have not actually helped to reduce Hungary's fragmentation or reduce income differences. If I had to mention two topics in these five minutes, I'm sure the first one would be health care. In the last four years, you have withdrawn 300 billion forints from the healthcare system, and yet today, if you look at it on the institutional side, every government promise is actually just fire fighting because it is used to settle existing debts, to settle debts for the functioning of the institutions. We are now saying that they are unable to comply with their own legislation, as you have laid down by law that, in proportion to the increase in GDP, they will increase the resources allocated to the health sector in the budget. The draft budget submitted for 2016 clearly shows that they can no longer hold it. And if we're talking about how much money you're going to tell us in your answer today, how much money you're going to spend on health care, let's have a clear two pieces of news from the last few weeks: a nurse in black will accurately indicate the unsustainable conditions in health care, and in the last few days you've had to sign up for knee replacements with a waiting list dated to 2021. I wonder how you would like to explain today's May 2015 and what a patient who needs it for the next six years would like to do, whether in their capacity to work or simply in their daily lives, to offer them a solution. In the 2016 budget, nothing will be done in the current budget in relation to health cuts, basic benefits, strengthening the general medical system. They scrape the surface, but in fact they do not answer the substantial challenge of how the average age in Western Transdanubia is 63.5 years, while in Eastern Hungary it took 54.5 years, and what is the relation to the healthcare system. The other issue, which is closely linked to this, is the issue of the social security system. You have also withdrawn 300 billion from the social care system in recent years and are forecasting in your submitted convergence programme that in the coming years the expenditure of the social care system will be reduced by HUF 300 billion. And let's look at the municipal system. What is the close link between a municipal operation and the transformation of the social care system? What you've done is you've destroyed the social services system and you've deprived municipal mayors and bodies of their ability to handle the social crisis. Therefore, the source that you have withdrawn from the social care system must be returned to the people; because if you have not been able to recognise that a single-key tax system will preserve only injustice and so-called income differences in Hungary, then you must ensure that municipalities in small settlements are able to provide resources in addition to basic care in social, health and educational areas. Therefore, 10 percent of personal income tax should be returned to municipalities, the residual part of the vehicle tax should be increased and business tax cannot be included in the norm of their budgets. This will help to reduce territorial inequality [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and thus reduce the income gap in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-05-27-6	State Secretary András Tállai wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-27-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I think, contrary to your statement, that for 2016 there will be a calm, predictable budget. [[István Tukacs: You are calm, sure!]] The budget is calm because you do not have to worry about, as in your time, whether the revenue goal or the lack of budget can be achieved. During eight years of governance, you have failed to meet the 3 percent budget deficit compared to GDP in one year. So I understand that they are incomprehensible to the Fidesz government's fiscal policy, although we are not getting recognition from you, but the facts must also be noted to you: Fidesz was able to meet the expectation that the budget deficit would be below 3 per cent of GDP from 2011 after the 2010 takeover, and that is why Hungary has been out of the excessive deficit procedure since 2013. The budget can be calculated - and this is supported by the opinion of the State Audit Office - as revenue is realistic and there are clear social objectives and funding on the expenditure side. One of these is the tax reduction, which can only be done by a country whose economy works well, where there is continuous economic growth, where the people's community generates surplus, and there is a chance to give more back to people. [[8.20]] The government's objective is clear: support for families, thereby reducing personal income tax and increasing the system of family tax incentives. Therefore, the 2016 budget is the budget for the tax reduction. You raised two questions, on the one hand, about health care. I think that there is no shame in the draft budget for 2016 because of the support of hospitals [[István Tukacs: Less!]] Together with the HUF 60 billion debt settlement fund, it exceeds the 2015 level, so the operation of hospitals will also be ensured in 2016. GPs will also receive a significant discount; they will benefit from tax relief from 2016 in addition to the HUF 10 billion surplus this year. They will not pay local business tax, which will amount to a surplus of about 1.5 billion to the general medical system; this will make it easier for 6300 general practitioners. A HUF 15.3 billion income supplement will be added to the health sector in 2016; the support of young start-ups will also be shown here in particular. I think that the health crisis was just under your governance. The Fidesz government will do everything in its power to improve the health situation. It is incomprehensible what you are saying about the criticism of the funding of the municipal system, as at your time the entire Hungarian municipal system was indebted, essentially reaching its limit of inability to function, compared with the Fidesz government [[István Tukacs intervenes.]] consolidated the municipalities, took over more than HUF 1300 billion in debt, transformed the funding system, created a task financing system that tailors the funding to the tasks. The functioning of the municipalities is ensured, as is the case with the whole country. The 2016 budget, which begins today, will provide a predictable, secure security for the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-8	Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Should we move to the streets so that the government can hear the workers' voices? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-27-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It seems that social workers have also understood that the government will not deal with them until they are out on the street. What we've seen for weeks now is that the government understands one thing: if a whole sector moves and makes its voice heard. It's the only thing that crosses the government's stimuli. Previously, health professionals, now social workers, have to resort to this tool. This is sad, on the one hand, because this is all because of government indifference to workers, but on the other hand, it is positive that more and more groups of workers feel that if they organise themselves, if they make their demands clear and direct the public's attention to themselves, they can achieve results. In addition to the workers' stand for themselves and their sector, the government cannot leave without saying a word. The fact that the government is even aware of the situation in these sectors is a huge achievement. As State Secretary Gábor Zombor confessed, until now he had no idea that the unpaid overtime in healthcare was worth billions of forints. This is why the idea of social workers' campaign called "social selfies" was very appropriate, which was launched on Facebook, and the whole point of which was to show how much money can be made in the social sphere with how many years of work. The government seems to be unaware of the conditions in the public sector, the humiliatingly low wages the workers earn, the shortage of numbers, the working conditions. The pay conditions in the social sector are disastrous. Here, the average salary is less than half the average national wage of HUF 156 thousand net. Three-quarters of the employees make money under the minimum wage. With 30 years of work, their earnings are less than HUF 100,000 net. It is not possible to say enough how important work is done by nearly 100,000 people employed as social workers, daycare workers and child protection workers. The government knows that, at least that is what the 2010 government programme refers to. It says, and I quote: "Today, the reputation of workers in social and child protection, child welfare is the weakest. The sector's wages are below even those in the healthcare sector. The extent and quality of the social security of the future depends on them, and the honour of their work must be returned without delay. In comparison to this, the government has not made any of this promise come true in the last five years. He promised to settle social wages three elections ago: in 2010, in 2013 and at the end of 2014. After the elections, the issue was always off the agenda, and the delay came. From 2014 the workers were spotted with a few thousand forints of sectoral wage allowances. Last time, Károly Czibere promised that the salary increase would come from July and the social career from January onwards. Then the government put forward next year's budget without any collateral for wage setting. Confused justifications followed from Secretary of State Rétvári to Mr. Károly Czibere, that without real economic performance, wages could not be raised, and that the course of life was a much more complicated thing than to be introduced now. Social workers announced a protest on 29 May, and the government suddenly found HUF 7.5 billion in this year's budget and 15 in next year's budget. It's obviously just a mood-enhancing measure, not a real wage increase. It does not result in a 35 percent increase in wages, it does not include leasing, and 30 percent of employees are not included, not to mention that the introduction of a social career is being postponed again. This is simply unacceptable. We ask the government to implement the promises made to social workers, to extend the health pay table to social workers, both the workers and the auxiliary workers, to start negotiations with sectoral interest representatives on the social career. The LMP will propose a wage increase in budgetary amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-27-10	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2015-05-27-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I think everyone here in Parliament and in the whole country agrees that people who choose social careers as their own careers do it for society as a whole and help people who are no longer able to care for them or who, for some reason, need the care of the state. This work is both stressful physically and psychologically, because it is really very difficult to instill a soul every day, or it is necessary to help people in very bad condition to solve ordinary simple tasks, with a very deep sense of feeling and really to protect human dignity. These people, therefore, have a very high level of respect both morally and financially; I think we all agree on that. The government has also made it clear that from the moment the performance of the economy makes this possible, it is also trying financially to show this appreciation. Therefore, after the economic turnaround in 2013, when the economy finally started to grow again and should not have raised wages on credit, as they did in the previous period, but could be based on real economic performance, we introduced from 1 January 2014 a sectoral wage substitute that could help a number of families. For a total of HUF 12 billion, for 93,000 employees, this means an increase in earnings from HUF 6 000 to HUF 17 200 per month, so obviously for those with children, families, this is also fully reflected as a net benefit, not only as gross; for those without children, income tax and contributions should be deducted. [[8.30]] So this is a sectoral wage substitute that has been running for two years, and this has not been the case before, for example, to introduce a replacement wage in the sector. In addition, the increase in the minimum wage, in a quotation sign, I can say that, unfortunately, many people were affected, as many people fell into that category mainly without qualifications, the increase in income for those working in the social sphere and for them, as the minimum wage increased by much more than HUF 30,000, so it was able to push the wages of many people from the bottom in the social sphere. That is why there has been a wage tension within the social sphere, since many people have suffered the same amount of pay. And, as you said, there is a strong exhausting effect in the social sphere towards health care, towards other sectors: those with qualifications, experience, could easily pass through, since since we have introduced the pedagogical career, the choice of a teacher has become much more attractive, and incomes have increased by 40 percent there, and in the healthcare sector we can report a 23 percent increase in wages, so these careers have become more attractive to many of the graduates who work here, not to mention working abroad. That's why we thought the government had to act here. This was part of the introduction of a sectoral wage supplement, but I would also, as you have said, completely disprove the indifference against you. You know that two decades ago, the State Secretary for Social Affairs, Károly Czibere, led the second largest non-state institutional system at the head of the Hungarian Reformed Charity Service, had full practical experience of how everyday life works in the social sphere. So I think you, myself and almost all of the people here, understand what is going on in the social sphere and what exactly needs to be done to help the people here, decades of experience, both practical and leadership experience in this area. This is why sectoral negotiations have continued, in several working groups, including in the career working group, and there have been ongoing discussions with the government, and representatives of various trade unions are regular guests of our ministry, and there are ongoing negotiations with them, and even on two careers, as there is one trade union group and another trade union group, with whom these negotiations are ongoing in parallel. This is how we get to the government meeting on 20 May, where the government has actually decided on a very positive measure: from 1 July this year, the government has voted for HUF 7.6 billion in extra support to the social sphere for wage management, and, as I mentioned earlier, we want to settle this internal wage tension, so we want to increase its salary by an average of HUF 16 thousand - this will be about 65 thousand - for those who have worked in the sector for a long time, have more experience and have higher school education, thus increasing the professional retention of the social sphere. We hope that this sector's wage substitute will be an appreciation of knowledge and experience, just as, by the way, the extension of the pedagogical career will be a significant increase in earnings for the sector's adoption consultants or educator's degree, where appropriate, from 1 September this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-12	On behalf of Mr President Novak, on behalf of Jobbik, who is to speak before the next agenda: The title of the common denominator of the parties of the century. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fidesz, a broker scandal, has renounced the accountability of corrupt socialist politicians, including Gábor Simon, who, according to the information of the pro-government Day Economy, is expected to leave free, and more than 100 million forints of stolen money. Hand washes, corruption is the common denominator that connects XX. The two parties of the 20th century, as the MSZP has not only continued the political crime that we have seen here in the last eight years, because they carried the public money with Simicska's wheelbarrow and Nyerges tow, sometimes calling it the public procurement procedure. CHAPTER XXI However, as a party of the century, we want something else. In fact, let's be fair, LMP is also listed in Section XXI. He spoke to the parties of the century, all the more so, because it was a coincidence, but yesterday András Schiffer also held a speech entitled "A country without consequences" and, by analysing this scandalous investigative phase of the Simon case, he also listed the omissions that we could see and, by the way, read mainly, let's say, on the website of Private Kopó in recent times, but we couldn't see any action. However, while the LMP listed these crimes, allow me to continue to come up with proposals for solutions. Unfortunately, a large part of it will be repeated, which you voted against, but let me also make new proposals for the lessons learned from the Simon case. We want to resolve these by government, and we hope that we do not have to wait for Jobbik to come to the government, so we hope that we will finally consider the proposals that have been voted down unread from the experience of this case, even under the pressure of social outrage. For example, we would like to seize wealth in the event of such political crime. We don't think we should pay personal income tax on the money we found, hundreds of millions of forints stolen, and not health contributions, so that the rest of the money we stole will be free to go after tax, Gábor Simon, but we think that the confiscation of assets, what's more, would require a double penalty. Our old ground, programme - because we had one - is that we want a double penalty for politicians, twice the sentence in force if it is committed by a politician. It is also an old and unfortunately swept up point that, like the declaration of assets, the declaration of income and the education and language skills, Members have to declare their possible nationality. This has been swept off by you, and if we had known that Gábor Simon had acquired citizenship in such an African banana republic, it would have been obvious that he had something to hide, that he had built an escape route, and that would be why an investigation would have been ordered sooner. Unfortunately, you have also swept this down, and we do not know who else might have such escape routes and such other citizenships. Just as they swept away the declaration of the family's wealth, so they could hide up to a hundred million forks in the name of children - we have seen it leaked in the case of János Lázár. Only the representatives of Jobbik made it public, and we have just received a promise from the LMP that they will finally publish the property declaration of the relatives, but Antal Rogán's promise to settle this issue in the spring seems to have failed. It is also our old foundation, and unfortunately, you have repeatedly swept it down so that it is mandatory to order at the end of every mandate, especially at the end of the term of office of a State Secretary, such as Gábor Simon. But that didn't happen either. Like the regulation of immunity, the abolition of immunity awaits you, because, as we know from János Zuschlag, immunity protects not only from condemnation, but also from investigation, it is not possible to investigate a politician who is protected by immunity, in this sense, to investigate crimes in cases where the perpetrator is a Member of Parliament with immunity, let us say. It is amazing that the D.A.'s office has not been able to deliver any success so far, and that they are already trying to get it accepted by leaked news, to accept that it is free to leave with more than HUF 100 million. It is obvious who he was negotiating as State Secretary, whom he met, whom he was mailing, which should be revealed by secret service means in order to explore the path of the national property he has been abducted. Finally, allow me to offer you two new proposals. One of the things that we have already stated is that the facts of fiscal fraud, under her maiden name, must be removed from the facts of tax fraud, the unlimited extenuatable clause in the case of large sums of fraud, on which she can now escape and leave with HUF 100 million. I also think that we should think about, at least you should think about, who installed palm scanners in the stadiums, so that they could install them down there and into the banks, so that the particularly large payments of millions of HUF can be identified, even by biometric means, ex post, where the money came from. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-14	State Secretary Károly Kontrat wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-27-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Simon Gábor, former MSZP Member of Parliament, Deputy General President of the MSZP, President of the National Election, former Minister of State for Labour, continues the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office in the case of the crime of fiscal fraud, which causes a high financial disadvantage in criminal proceedings and other crimes. For this reason, it would be irresponsible at the moment to speculate on what judgment the independent Hungarian court will pass in the future, especially in view of the fact that the investigation was extended by the Investigator's Attorney General's Office until 14 June. In this regard, I would like to say that we hope that the truth will come out, and on this basis the court will determine the responsibility. Hungary is a rule of law, no one is above the law. Every man who broke the law must bear its consequences. The government has declared zero tolerance against corruption. [[8.40]] Our goal is to make Hungary one of the world's lowest countries infected with corruption. We know that there is a great deal to be done to achieve this goal. We are counting on the cooperation of the parliamentary parties in the Parliament. Organisational cooperation is essential in this fight. Corruption prevention is based on strengthening the integrity management system. To this end, the National Defence Service has signed a cooperation agreement with the National University of Public Service in order to further develop the integrity consultants as the main responsibility for the task. The aim of this cooperation is to develop jointly the mechanisms for the necessary cooperation between the National University of Public Service and the National Defence Service. As a result, 31 people started their studies at the National University of Public Service on 25 February 2015 in the framework of the integrity advisory training. In November 2014, the National Defence Service prepared a draft national anti-corruption programme for the years 2015-18. This includes both corruption prevention and integrity. It sets out the necessary lines of action and takes into account the findings, recommendations and good international and domestic practices on the implementation of international conventions on corruption, as well as on the protection and anti-corruption efforts of the European Union's financial interests, assessed risks, and anti-corruption and integrity enhancement. Unlike in the past, the scope of this programme goes beyond the public administration, as it also sets out measures, for example, to strengthen the cleanliness of business and to adopt new legal institutions. Dear Parliament, The objectives require a firm implementation because it is the only one that will bring the desired results. And the fact that there is a result of the work that has been done so far is no more proof than the European Union's anti-corruption report, from which allow me, Member and honourable Parliament, to quote that Hungary is among the countries where corruption within the national administrative institution is showing the greatest decline. However, we cannot rest from this finding alone, and we must go further on the way we started, in order to achieve the least corruptable country and public administration in line with the original objectives. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, If you listen to me, I'll thank you. I listened to it too. [[Foreman Novak: Answer me!]] without interrupting, and now I'm giving you the answer. Honourable Congressman, There is no tolerance for corruption under our government in Hungary. I ask you and your faction to help the Government to achieve its objectives, so that we can also contribute to achieving this goal through the legislative proposals presented here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-27-16	On the next agenda, Mr Bence Tuzson, on behalf of Fidesz, asked for a speech on the state of the Hungarian economy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The figures of the Hungarian economy are getting better. We see that the efforts that started in 2010 have come in and changed steadily since 2013 have improved the various economic indicators. If we look at last year alone, we can see that in addition to expectations, growth was 3.6 percent in Hungary and all economic indicators have improved. This year is also expected to improve, as this year we can expect an increase of 3.1 percent compared to the previous figure, and with a conservative estimate the next annual budget, 2016 is also forecasting a 2.5 percent increase. Of course, these numbers are very important, but behind these figures are always people, and it is a very important figure about what employment looks like in Hungary, so it is extremely important that today more than 4 million people have been working in Hungary for 14 months and 4 million 117 thousand people have been working. This is a very important number, and I think that when we start talking about it, we should look back and see where we started in 2010. What was the fundamental reason for the increase in employment in Hungary? A number of government measures could, of course, be listed in this regard, but I think that the most important principle was the one laid down in 2010. By 2010, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, had reached a state where it became an unfit machine and controlled the country without any principles. Ladies and gentlemen. It is not possible without principles; it can only be governed by principles, so it was very important in 2010 that we set the most important goals, that we should focus here on the work of honest people, that we should strive to have as many people work in Hungary as possible. A country can develop if employment levels continue to increase, and people do not live on aid, but on work. In addition, it is, of course, very important that families should be focused, families should be prioritised, and the tax system should be amended accordingly. On this path the government started, and on this path the Hungarian state started, the Parliament, too, and established rules by which it encouraged productive investments to arrive in Hungary, the number of jobs to increase in the productive sphere, because we can only achieve lasting growth if we produce, produce value, and increase jobs along the production of these values. We can't stop on this road. We must strive to move forward in the coming years. At the same time, the 2016 budget will also include elements on job creation that can continue with this fundamental policy. To mention just a few elements, for example, the job protection action will continue and will extend to the agricultural area. It is very important that tax incentives can be used throughout the year from this year onwards. The budget of the National Employment Fund will also increase. This will also contribute to the growth of employment in Hungary and to the employment of people who are otherwise adversely affected in the labour market. Therefore, employment and training subsidies will also increase by around HUF 2 billion, and women's employment should also be increased. This has, moreover, increased in a larger proportion than in men's employment recently, and therefore, we must also strive for extra ged, so that this should also be strengthened in the next period. It is important that the money that comes from the EU is concentrated primarily on economic enhancement, economic creation and strengthening of the economy to create jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. I have four children, and I would like the country in which these children grow up to be a country of successful, successful, successful people, a country that can build primarily on its families and create jobs. I don't believe in miracles, but I'm sure with honest work we can achieve that, especially if we really focus on job-creating investments, focus on our family, and focus on thinking about the future, our children inside. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-27-18	State Secretary András Tállai wishes to respond on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2015-05-27-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as Congressman Bence Tuzson said, the performance of the Hungarian economy is outstanding, remarkable, and now not only with domestic eyes, but also internationally, the country's performance is being recognised. It is a very important question, in addition to the fact that the Member has led to the government's decisions from 2010 onwards and the results we have been able to deliver for 2013-14. It is an important question whether, for example, this performance will continue in 2015. I would like to say a few words about this, first of all, by examining the results of industrial production and, therefore, specifically, the results so far in 2015. For example, in March 2015, industrial production exceeded the same period of the previous year by 11,6 percent. And compared to the previous month, there was a 2.6 percent increase, which is also outstanding. I stress that this is a year's achievement. Overall, industrial production increased by 8 percent in the first quarter. [[8.50]] In particular, the driving sector is the emissions of vehicle production, which increased by 19 percent compared to the previous year; otherwise, 11 out of the 13 sub-sectors of the manufacturing industry are growing, from one and a half percent to 25 percent. But the production of computers, electronics and optical products is also outstanding, as it has increased by 11 percent, while the production of food and tobacco products by 12. This indicates that the increase in consumption is also very significant in this respect. It is very important to examine the performance of exports, since Hungary's economy is determined by its ability to export, its ability to stand on the world market; the Hungarian economy is an open economy, and we also have significant results. For example, industrial exports increased by 14 percent in March, but domestic sales of industrial production also increased by 11 percent and more than 10 percent. And in view of the further expansion, we can be optimistic, as both domestic and German confidence indicators indicate that the performance of the Hungarian economy will continue to grow. The same is true if we look at the performance of foreign trade. For example, the value of exports in March 2015 in euro increased by 13 per cent and the value of imports increased by 9.8 per cent, thus exceeding the value of imports. The external trade surplus was also outstanding, for example EUR 929 million in March. But it is very important to look at it, and Mr President also pointed out that the performance of the Hungarian economy is on several feet, in addition to significant exports, including industrial production and the performance of vehicle production. Internal consumption is a major factor in growth, including the growth of domestic demand, which is also on several feet, in addition to the fact that the reduction of the rent has achieved its results in this sense, in addition to the increase in real incomes in the public sector and in the competition sector; or the expansion of occupations mentioned by you, as more than 440 thousand people work compared to 2010, and this also significantly increases domestic demand and consumption. I think that the Hungarian economy is moving forward on a healthy path, and we will see all the results of that. The impact of economic growth will also be reflected in the budget figures, revenue figures and thus in expenditure priorities when the 2016 budget is being negotiated. I believe that the Hungarian economy is on a healthy track, and that this performance that we have been able to demonstrate is in the interest of all of us, the whole country, that we can continue to carry on and further enhance the country's performance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-20	Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the amendment of the laws relating to advertising tax follows in an exceptional procedure. The submission is T/4900. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee has not submitted a summary amendment and its summary report is T/4900/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The debate will be the first to give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2015-05-27-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The advertising tax is part of the tax system as of 15 August 2011. With the introduction of this tax, as with a number of other traffic consumption taxes, the government was aiming to increase the share of the joint expenditure of society by businesses with greater capacity to bear a proportionate public burden. It was also important to minimise the administrative costs associated with taxation. To date, the government still has an unbroken intention for major advertising players to play a prominent role in the system of public burden-sharing. Therefore, the advertising tax will continue to exist in the future. However, since the introduction of the tax, the Commission has been examining the compatibility of certain provisions of the advertising tax and not the whole tax with Community law. The Government would like to close the debate as far as possible, because it is not in our interest to be uncertain about the content of certain rules affecting tax liability for many years. Therefore, the Government considers it appropriate to amend the Advertising Tax Act in order to spread the Commission's concerns without necessarily sharing the Commission's position. However, the amendment does not mean that the original objectives of the advertising tax may be damaged, i.e. we still expect substantial revenue from the tax, to be more precise: the payment of larger advertising companies. It is also stressed that the administrative burden on small businesses and the tax they pay must also be proportionate. Therefore, it continues to apply a zero-percent rate to the tax base not exceeding HUF 100 million. We also insist on this if the Commission considers that there is a greater interest in the additional administration of small businesses and in the payment of surplus taxes than in rational taxation. Under the proposal, taxable persons will have to pay advertising tax at a uniform rate of 5.3 per cent above the tax base of HUF 100 million, which is exempt from tax. This provision may be applied on the basis of the decision of the taxable person with retroactive effect to the entry into force of the law. In addition, as from the entry into force of the legislative amendment, the rate applied to the customer of advertising publication for the consideration of the order as a tax base will be reduced from 20 per cent to 5 per cent. As a result of the uniform rate, the risk of circumvention of the advertising tax obligation by various structural and organisational changes is significantly reduced, the current rule on the calculation of the tax base for related undertakings would be applicable only if the related business relationship was established after 15 August 2014 due to a division. This provision may also be applied retroactively. Finally, the proposal also includes an extension of the scope of the amendment of the corporate tax law in force from 2015 to 2014 in favour of taxpayers in the context of advertising taxation. As a result of this change, the tax costs of the corporate tax subjects in relation to advertising sales of less than HUF 30 million will reduce the corporate tax base retroactively in 2014, regardless of any other condition. Dear Parliament, We respectfully ask that the bill be discussed and adopted in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-22	Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I therefore give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. [[For signal:]] - if he were here. Excuse me, Mr. László Vécsey isn't here. I didn't realize that. However, the minority opinion can be expressed, so I will give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó in a maximum time frame of seven minutes.
u2015-05-27-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, At yesterday's legislative committee, it became clear that the justification for this amendment was completely false and misleading; both the State Secretary's statement and the State Secretary's statement were also included in this line. This advertising tax was absolutely clear and well-known to everyone, but it was a political punishment for television called RTL Klub that the Hungarian government imposed a penalty tax; and this intervention was not based on any market basis. The current proposal before us will try to correct this in front of Parliament, which will spread this revenue, this HUF 11 billion, across the entire advertising market. [[9.00]] According to background information, he would also try to target Lajos Simicska's former empire, and would not actually expect any consequences. At the committee meeting, the Secretary of State said that the government had admitted that this would be better, obviously there was no basis for it. Pointing to the European Commission, he said that this fund had to be changed because the European Commission wanted to lower its turnover. That's a simple lie, too. The thing is that, at a level of turnover, there was a tax rate of 50 per cent which would have been easier for the government to put in the name of the company against whom this penalty tax was intended for obvious political reasons. Yesterday, what was interesting was that, aside from the political issues, we wanted to learn from the present representative of the government what impact assessment was carried out in addition to the current regulation, what impact assessment was carried out on what this tax will cause in the Hungarian media market at the current level of turnover and the current tax rates, but I will go further, for example, what it will cause in the Hungarian food chain market, i.e. in respect of stores. We forget to mention, among other things, that this advertising tax continues to maintain its own concept of advertising. In Hungarian, the free newspaper of every supermarket chain, but let me say in Hungarian, you will also have to pay taxes on the billboards in the own-owned shops, which could cause a further increase in the price of 27 percent of the food VAT, as obviously these supermarket chains will not reduce their advertising costs in competition with each other, and it is obvious that these paid taxes will be levied in the prices; I will add, regardless of the ownership structure, that the foreign supermarket chains will be placed at a disadvantage just as much as the friendly companies you prefer in relation to this law. We also wanted to find out what this tax would do in terms of internet portals, smaller televisions, newspapers, whether companies would fall, whether companies would be destroyed, whether they would even have calculated anything to bear this type of tax on the market. At yesterday's committee meeting, Mr Secretary of State asked for the assumption - I cannot quote it literally, but I almost literally say - that the government would have done any impact assessment because it is not the government's job and it does not intend to know what this law will otherwise cause in the media market or in the market for retail stores. According to your declaration, the sole purpose of this law is to collect tax revenue of HUF 11 billion, and the Hungarian government no longer has anything to do with it, it has nothing to do with ruining honest Hungarian businesses, it has nothing to do with the cost of food in the trade chains; it has nothing to do with this, the Hungarian government has one thing to collect 11 billion forints from this tax. We think it's a confession. We would like to make a proposal to the Secretary of State, here is the budget: if that 11 billion HUF is missing so much, Mr. State Secretary, then take 11 of the 80 billion forints of public media, no one will notice, not even the ten viewers who watch this latest stream, if they watch it, and then this thing is settled. I think that this wonderful public media will go somewhere out of 69 billion forints, which refuses to mediate our parliamentary debate, which is not willing to mediate the budget debate from which, by the way, he will break ten billion thanks to Fidesz, and which, by the way, refused to publish his announcement yesterday, which will obviously have further legal consequences. So, we recommend that this 11 billion HUF be taken from them instead, and leave the Hungarian media freedom, the Hungarian media market alone, where, contrary to any other opinion, there is no extra profit in the vast majority of the market, find another solution. The MSZP cannot support the proposal, we have not tabled any amendments, because this proposal is not a helpful amendment. Although we voted in favour of the LMP proposal of this type of improver, I would also like to say to them, the LMP also has no idea what the HUF 500 million threshold will cause on the market or what it will not cause on the market. We are convinced that there is one thing to do with this law: abolish it, vote no for it as it is. We think that sooner or later the Parliament itself will realize that this was a failed decision and that it will withdraw the current regulation of the advertising tax. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-05-27-24	The committee rapporteur, Mr László Vécsey, is not in the room, so we will move on at this point. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent representative has a total of 8 minutes. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. In this sense, I give the floor to Gyula Vantara, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-27-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an amendment to a law that has led to a major debate before my fellow Members, a bill that has been debated in recent months, both in politics and in the public. We clearly believe that in Hungary, in the coming years, a tax system should be developed where traffic-type taxes have an increasing role to play, and that those who have significant revenue and profits have a greater role to play in bearing public burdens. In recent years, the role of labour income tax in public funding in the domestic tax system has been reduced, and the focus of the tax system has increasingly shifted towards turnover and consumption-type taxes. In the spirit of moving towards a fairer public burden, last year the Parliament adopted the provisions on advertising tax, which could result in an annual revenue of nearly HUF 10 billion for the budget. However, the 2014 XXII on advertising tax Since the entry into force of law, two EU procedures have been launched against Hungary. The Commission has indicated that it considers that the advertising tax constitutes a selective advantage and therefore State aid to taxable persons with lower advertising revenue. At the beginning of February, the Commission called on the Hungarian Government to amend the rules of the advertising tax, otherwise it would issue a decision to suspend the tax and ultimately propose to initiate infringement proceedings. Considering the consequences of the delay in a possible dispute, it is appropriate to amend the contested provisions of the advertising tax. To this end, the law adopted last year was amended in such a way that the tax payable would be zero per cent on sales from advertising not exceeding HUF 100 million, until 5.3 per cent over HUF 100 million. In this way, it is possible to ensure that, even after the amendment of the law, the amount of revenue available to the budget is the same as that which would have been ensured by the law adopted last year. It was important that the amendment does not jeopardise the achievement of the original objectives of the advertising tax and therefore the tax administration costs related to taxation should be as low as possible. Dear House, It has already been said in last year's debate, but I would also like to note that it was the first time in 2000 that a tax of this type was introduced, and in 2008 trade unions also proposed the introduction of a tax on advertising for the government, and in 2013 the National Council for Stakeholders recommended that the government introduce a tax on advertising. The level of culture mediated by commercial television and commercial television, the quality of the programmes, has caused a great deal of debate in recent years. I am of the opinion that, in commercial television, programming itself, the construction and compilation of programmes went primarily towards revenues, and that it takes less account of the demands that we could rightly raise from Hungarian society against quality programming. [[9.10]] I hope that together we can achieve an environment that promotes the creation of a commercial media that conveys real values. I believe that the legislation before us continues to point in this direction, and I therefore call for it to be supported in the debate and during the votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-26	I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-05-27-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, in terms of the economic content of the advertising tax, it is simply a special tax and, in terms of its political purpose, quite simply a penalty tax. When we argue about advertising tax, it is completely misleading to argue about the extent of it. When we argue about advertising tax, there is only one right attitude to say that this sector does not have to bear any special tax on turnover, no penalty tax. There's only one thing you can do with this bill: withdraw it. This penalty tax and this special tax on the domestic media market are completely flawed and unnecessary in terms of domestic media conditions. It is clear that its function is clear from the government's side, to bring even independent media to their knees, in some way to buy loyalty or to punish lack of it. Let's look at the media conditions in Hungary today! Torzak. Today, in Hungary, there are media conditions where independent press - whether electronic or printed media - fights to survive, struggles to survive, and the pro-government press thanks you very much and is fine. He's well-equipped, rich in budget resources, and loaded with state advertising orders. This media situation is tragic and sad. Public media does not perform at all the function a public media should perform in any country. There is only one sentence in the public media to quote an old alternative text: the messenger is coming and waving, because news is long gone. This is also true for today's sitting, for our entire week's session. The Hungarian public media does not consider it worthy of mediation from tens of billion forints of state support to convey Parliament's sittings and sittings when it comes to nothing less than the advertising tax on the media world or the next year's budget, but I could still bring some of the agendas of this week that are accompanied by public uprisings and lively debates, and it would be right to demand that the parliamentary debate on this matter, the debate of decision-makers, be watched live by those who are interested in the news in today's Hungarian public life. You are building a distorted media world in which the various vassals are rewarded with government orders, advertising orders, and reward the media segment that is willing and able to propagate your policy, and everyone else, as you can in a world where advertising revenues are increasingly the means of surviving a media. Looking at the distribution of public ads, it's quite clear that this distribution has long since been generated by the amount of reading or ratings. Under normal circumstances, a public ad should examine what the target audience reads, what they watch, what they listen to, and the best way to place the advertisement would be to advertise on the surfaces that a large number of target audiences visit. This is not the case, this aspect has disappeared from the side of government orders, there is only one aspect left: the purchase and reward of loyalty. And the ad tax is just punishing everyone else. Punishing everyone else, since media companies that are good with the government, which are the government's favourites, can expect the government to compensate them from the advertising revenue side in abundance for the loss of revenue, more precisely because of the revenue tax. All the rest, in essence, the independent domestic press, cannot count on this, and their punishment remains for them. Therefore, the MSZP considers that the media tax, the advertising tax, cannot be supported even in this modified form. This bill cannot be accepted in its entirety or in its details; the MSZP rejects this bill in its entirety and in its details. Our view is that there is no need to impose any special tax on this market, this is completely unjustified from the side of budgetary revenue, and we could find the source of a large amount of expenditure in the budgetary debate, which, unfortunately, cannot be followed by the public in a straight line, and we will give a number of examples of this ourselves. This advertising law simply has no use, no business in the media market, it must be withdrawn. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-27-28	I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik, Mr Elektek. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We find it unacceptable that, while Jobbik's criticism - as the criticism of the advertising tax originally and the first party to propose it - was not accepted, any of our amendments were not accepted, the law on advertising tax is again amended at the pressure of the EU as the European Union whistles, as we have seen that even the Fundamental Law which best embodies the sovereignty of our nation has been amended as the European Union expects. I think that this is unacceptable, and that if they are already talking about a system of national cooperation, they should not focus on international cooperation, but rather on hearing the proposals of the parties representing the people of Hungary. It is also unacceptable that this proposal will once again ease the situation of RTL Klubon and multinational companies in general, while imposing a much greater burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. Jobbik therefore does not support this proposal, as we first formulated the foundation in 2009, and in October 2010 we presented a proposal here in Parliament. At the time, it was still voted off, even though it was only a groundwork for the media law to introduce some kind of advertising tax, but even the groundwork itself was wiped out. The idea of advertising tax was used by the government to blackmail commercial media. He also drew and postponed the bill himself uploaded to the government's website for a long time, after having sent it to public opinion and then forgot to submit it, as blackmail and background negotiations continued, and when, in the absence of a better one, I myself submitted the proposal published by the government as an individual representative's motion, you once again voted against it. Mihály Varga himself, in response to my speech after the agenda, said that there was no need for any additional revenue from the budget, no need for a tax on advertising. Then a little time passed until the proposal was finally submitted, of course, not as Jobbik suggested, we expressed a number of professional criticisms or comments, as we would also look at the social usefulness or social harm of an advertisement, of course. On the basis of the polluter-pays principle, the costs of cultural pollution should be paid to commercial media primarily after advertising revenues. [[9.20]] Or, if you have, if you have a public-interest message, think of a yogurt advertisement, which not as a burden, as a nuisance, but as a positive, idyllic picture of a large family lifestyle, for example, you could force the advertisers to make advertisements that may, by the way, have a public-service message. However, in order to distinguish between advertising and advertising, you have wiped it out, you were only interested in revenue and the regulation of the RTL Club. However, it should not be used as such a regulatory instrument, it should not be blackmailed by government parties by such means, nor would it normally be possible to blackmail media to become even more government-friendly. We need predictable legislation, but this is not what the current economic environment shows. Rather, they are using this proposal for their internal warfare, their war with Lajos Simicska, and they are referring to the pressure of the European Union, and they are not ashamed of it, while our national self-determination is being trampled upon by interference with such internal affairs. This is long ago not about the common market, but about how our own internal affairs, media law or advertising law are intended to be imposed. That is why we would like our proposals to be taken up in this regard, not only ours, but also the professional organisations that have regularly formulated criticisms. For example, the Hungarian Marketing Association, to which I turned in a letter, and a number of criticisms have been formulated. Even though I have mentioned these earlier, unfortunately nothing in this bill is returning, so allow me to rephrase the few little signs that the Hungarian Marketing Association has made at my request. What amounts are affected and what rates are being applied in its current form is clearly not to be changed by professional criticism. It's a political issue. But the fact that the whole law, when it is brought in as suddenly as it is now, bypassing the normal procedure in Parliament, raises a problem that it is not a sufficiently professional proposal, is supported by the following criticisms of the Hungarian Marketing Association, for example. You can see that as many people as there are so many interpretations of the law. It raises a lot of questions, even among law-interpreters. They suspect that the NAV doesn't have advertising and marketing professionals, so there's still a very long way to go before proper practice is established. After all, the tax authority could not answer whether, for example, an Internet store that advertises on Facebook or Google pages is really obliged to pay a commercial tax. The advertising tax law imposes advertising taxes on advertisements in the Hungarian language and wants to establish Hungarian linguistics from the order, so the order as an accounting document can be requested and requested in the course of the review of the advertising tax. It also follows that if the advertisement contains only English words, it does not fall within the scope of the advertising tax. But what about banner ads that contain only images? So, say, on a porn site, it's free to advertise? Is that what you're encouraging me to do? The current legislation seems to be. In this connection, the expert informed the Hungarian Marketing Association that advertising which does not contain a text in Hungarian, only an acronym or a figure, cannot be subject to the advertising tax. True, questions of this kind or advertisements have a cultural tax, but the client does not have to pay for it. It is also interesting, on the basis of the text of the law, that a totem column is an outdoor advertising medium, which is a way of indicating the name of the company and promoting its activities. But what if the advertising medium doesn't have a text in Hungarian, just a picture and a logo? The NAV can't answer these questions either. After the media law consisting of rubber paragraphs, more and more of these laws are being passed, which clearly allows them to catch small and medium-sized enterprises through the authority that they are dealing with, say, a Cubatov list or who knows what support, based on political reasons. This is unacceptable! We want clear, transparent laws. There is a great deal of uncertainty about my self-reclamation, i.e. when, for example, a media company advertises one of its publications or programmes in another product. In these cases, the rule is that your ad is taxed in excess of the annual cost of HUF 500 million, under which there is no obligation to report or register. But it is not clear, for example, that in the case of Google and Facebook, after not making a statement, who is the subject of the advertising tax. Is it the agency that's connected to Facebook, or are you the advertiser? And there are many more such questions not only for the Hungarian Marketing Association, but also for the entire communication industry. In the end, it is very painful for us, too, what the revenue is being spent on. The introduction of this advertising tax, if not in the way Jobbik originally suggested, has been implemented, and at least the advertising tax itself has so far been charged mainly to multinational companies, and Jobbik believes that it would be the main burden, since it is clearly passed on by advertising service providers to advertisers, mainly multinational companies. However, if this proposal has been voted out earlier, it has finally been implemented, but it does not matter what these revenues are spent on. You seem to be infiltrating the budget, in fact indirectly ensuring that government propaganda can be conducted out of public money, out of ten billion in order. This is sometimes disguised as a national consultation for the greatest pleasure of Gábor Kubatov, since it has long been not only government propaganda in the context of the national consultation, but we can also see public advertisements which, disguised as information, actually constitute government propaganda. These, of course, have often been significantly overpriced. I also reported one of Lajos Simicska's giant posters companies, which campaigned for eight times the market price. Even though we have made this complaint, because the prosecution has swept it off by reference to the fact that, in itself, the fact that we are talking about a procurement procedure without publication of a notice is the fact that, according to the prosecutor's office, something is happening for an apparent multiple of the market price, it is not a sign of a crime, it is not even an investigation into such a case. As a result of your amendment of the law, we are no longer entitled to an appeal, appeal or complaint, and therefore the decision rejecting the complaint is final. In this sense, therefore, government propaganda can flow unscrupulously from ten billion to eight times the market price. I dare say this because we, like Jobbik, have, with our own money at market prices, not at friendly prices, you may imagine that we have been doing the same giant billboard campaign of a thousand pieces, and we have seen that it has cost eight times as much as they do government propaganda for; but if they are already doing so, it is not eight times the market price. Of course, while they had to hire Lajos Simicska, it was understandable why these were overpriced, wasn't it? But not only is it unacceptable that these are overpriced, but it is also the basis for funding government propaganda from the budget. If there is already such revenue, which, for example, comes from the advertising tax in the order of HUF 10 billion, it would be more important to think about the introduction of the free internet. This is Jobbik's old foundation, and at the time of the introduction of the advertising tax, in the debate on the bill, I also raised a number of arguments for it, to which the author replied, even L. Simon László. I'm sure you'll remember that the RTL Club made a fool of him, that he didn't even know his own proposal. Well, it didn't take much to change L. Simon László for the RTL Club to be able to set up for an idiot, because he really didn't know his own proposal. But: I rarely agree with L. Simon László, but in his closet he himself gave us the truth, and he replied to the better criticism by completing the general debate of the Advertising Tax Act:. The Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the Internet cheaper than we do here. This is what he said, among other things, when we put forward our proposal for the introduction of the free internet in relation to the advertising tax, to use the order of ten billion forints. I'll continue to quote L. Simon László. Mr President, don't be alarmed, there won't be any perverts in it this time, and it won't rhyme, because I'm quoting L. Simon László's authorship of advertising tax only. The Secretary of State said that he would cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we did not change in this area. He pointed to his colleague, Minister. Mihály Varga, who previously said that there was no need for revenue from such advertising tax, because the state budget does not need such revenue, has listened until now, while Jobbik's signature collection action is finally under pressure, not an Internet tax, but an Internet tax reduction. We are very happy about this, although there are few steps to take. Moreover, they will hit the EU again, as the VAT directives of the European Union do not allow for a reduction in the VAT on Internet services. For this reason, we are saying that, for example, advertising tax revenue should be used to introduce the free internet. I submitted this last time with an amendment, unfortunately it was swept off. Yet, they need to see that there is no other option if they want to face up to how justified the free internet is. [[9.30]] After all, the third lowest share of regular broadband mobile users in the European Union is in Hungary. It is also extremely misleading to announce that broadband will be everywhere by 2018, because it will only be where high charges can be paid in international comparison. Compared to gross average earnings, domestic mobile internet charges are more than three times higher than Slovenia and the Czech Republic, and the prices here are 23 times higher than Denmark. Do you understand that? ! So we can talk about a 2,200 percent increase in prices and a surplus in Hungary, compared to, say, Denmark, if we also take into account income relations. That is why we should change this, and the free internet proposed by Jobbik, if we say that from advertising tax, because we could have that kind of money, it could boost telework, televising, electronic administration. This could reduce car traffic and the unnecessary queue, of course. The free internet itself in some settlements, there are not only international examples of it, but also in Hungary, the better-run municipalities have already passed their exams. We've launched a movement of Internet-friendly settlements. Free WiFi has been successfully tested in many places in the main squares of the better settlements. On that basis, we dare suggest that not only L. Simon László agree with this, but also the entire government. And don't think about reducing some VAT as some sort of substitute action, and you should campaign with this, while it probably won't be anything, because the European Union is once again interfering in our internal affairs, which you will accept without a word, or you may protest with a loud voice, but you will ultimately acknowledge what you are doing in connection with the death penalty, when the Fundamental Law is amended, or now, when the advertising tax is amended. However, this is unacceptable to reduce the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises again by reducing the burden on multinational companies. Therefore, Jobbik does not support this proposal. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-30	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-05-27-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, A year ago, when we introduced the tax type called advertising tax, we said that it was not actually a advertising tax, it was a media tax. The law that Parliament passed last year was one of the opening stages of the Fidesz gang war. In practice, Viktor Orbán entered into the gang war that is currently under way and is in fact a substitute for government. We took the view last May that it was important to talk about advertising tax in itself, to think about advertising tax. However, this type of tax, which was introduced by the government and which Parliament adopted as advertising tax law last year, is exclusively about the acquisition of prey. It's not actually restricting advertising, media freedom, media movement. It's a media tax. Therefore, our fundamental position is that not only this amending proposal, but the so-called advertising tax law itself should be withdrawn in this form. It's nothing, but it doesn't make any sense. In advance, I would like to briefly explain why we do not consider it devilish for the Parliament to talk about advertising tax at all. We have already emphasised that the law governing commercial advertising would be eligible, since advertising, as a specific institution of consumer society, is a major contribution to the development of consumer behaviour which regards as its primary objective the greatest possible level of consumption. However, artificially aroused consumption, which is constantly increasing, is a source of significant social and environmental damage. In the midst of the disintegration of traditional communities, the depersonalisation of human relations, the growth of social inequalities, commercial advertising, almost without exception, unilaterally stimulates the consumption of material goods, creating a disadvantage for non-material services, education and culture intended to offset these negative processes. In contrast to these negative trends, we need to protect and support local communities, help, for example, the formation of direct producer-receiving networks, the strengthening of personal character in a settlement, the reduction of the number of commercial transfers. Advertising strengthens consumer attitudes, encourages increased consumption as much as possible, and directly or indirectly enhances the destruction of non-renewable resources, pollution of the environment, health harm. Advertising thus hastens the recovery of limited wealth, even though we still have billions of people living outside of us today, and generations are coming after us who want to meet their legitimate needs. In regulating such areas as advertising, we could take steps towards a regulated market economy, where profit aspects could not override social and environmental aspects, because one is better than profit. It's called an eco-social market economy. We could move towards the creation of a legal regulatory system where, in addition to a competitive market approach, by changing price and value conditions, we could create a new system of prices and costs in which resources classified or undervalued to date would be included, while limiting and eliminating in the long term economic activities the negative impact of which would lead to irreversible damage to the environment. A real advertising tax, not what is in this law, would charge the costs of social and environmental damage to those who caused it, this, the polluter-pays principle, could also provide a source for the relief of the damage caused and, in some cases, to eliminate it. Advertising tax could be a source of finance for socially useful advertising activities that would raise the level of cultural needs of the population, promote healthy lifestyles and sport, provide guidance on the quality of leisure time as well as address a number of social problems, and improve people's environmental awareness. This is not the case in this bill or in the original bill of advertising tax itself. This would not serve these purposes, which would otherwise be welcomed by the LMP; this is only another chapter in the gang war, and it is merely about the repression of the media. It's a media tax, not a commercial tax. And it is also important to mention the lies that we have heard here in the introduction from the government and from our fellow Member Vantara. Gyula Vantara, you were referring to budget revenue. Well, let's see what we're talking about. You're planning 10 billion, aren't you, Secretary of State? 10 billion of these tax types were planned, compared to this Andy Vajna received a 15 billion HUF gift after his casinos. Then what are we talking about, Secretary of State? Then why do you need a new tax? It would be enough to take the money from Andy Vajna, wouldn't it? This HUF 10 billion is at their only oligarch who has benefited from the legislation of recent years. So it's obvious here that the reference to budget revenue is quite simply a scrupulous lie. We should also mention that in this situation, the reduction of the tax-free limit from HUF 500 million to HUF 100 million again affects those who are suffering from the economic policy of the past t25 years. Thank you very much for instructing me highly professionally about why it is wrong to present an amendment. I understand you have enormous government experience behind your back, especially with government success, to lecture anyone. The fact is that there is a big difference between us, that we would like to point out with the amendment proposal that we continue to regard it as a priority, as opposed to MSZP and Fidesz, so that small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary are finally in a position. We will therefore draw up all proposals to remind the government that the economic policy that continues to favour multinationals vis-à-vis domestic medium-sized enterprises must be put to an end. The reduction in the threshold again leads to market distortions that are essentially neutral from the point of view of multinational companies on the media market, but, in particular, tragic for small and medium-sized enterprises present on the page market. I believe that it was not important for the socialists, it was not important for 4+8 years, it was more important to worry about multinationals. For us, however, the first aspect of amending a tax law is the impact it has on the domestic economic structure. President Novák has already quoted the opinion of one of the professional organizations, and we have received an analysis of the Association of Hungarian Publishers. It is very clear what negative effects the current amendment has on the labour market, i.e. the reduction of the tax-free limit, and it is also very clear that its primary victims are medium-sized enterprises on the paper market, whose profits are taken away by the current amendment. [[9.40]] So once again, we are faced with an amendment of the law - and I am not talking about the so-called advertising tax law on which it is based - which has roughly neutral effects for the various multinational companies that dominate the market, but has tragic consequences for domestic-owned small and medium-sized enterprises, primarily for the newspaper market. So once again in a sector, the government takes a step that further expands the gap between domestic oligarchs and multinational companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is very clear that they are creating a situation that has a disastrous impact on the labour market; once again, the government is taking a step in which to guide people, who have been trained with knowledge and experience, mostly younger people, to seek prosperity abroad if they do not want to get acquainted with the pleasures of public employment. In addition, we also said last summer that talking about advertising tax and, above all, media tax is impertinent until the promotion of state-owned, publicly owned, monopolistic companies is banned and government propaganda is stopped. As long as there is government propaganda, as long as it is possible to buy advertising platforms for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for nothing, each such intervention, regardless of its intentions, is in the process of seriously distorting the media market and thereby manipulating the public. After all, in principle, a new tax does not affect all operators, according to roughly normative rules. On the other hand, there are market players to whom you redistribute or redistribute the existence. Mr. Secretary. Answer that question openly, honestly, look me in the eye [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. András Tállai: You are not yet a judge, Schiffer!]] What is the need for monopoly companies, Mr. Secretary of State, to place advertisements on public television in any newspaper? We need to make Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. Or should any monopolistic company spend a penny on ads? [[András Tállai: Talk about advertising tax!]] But this is the agenda, Mr State Secretary, because we are talking about a tax law that you may not have noticed, a tax law that is otherwise affecting the media market has been brought here. When we talk about the usefulness of this law, we need to analyse the conditions in this market. Then, when you introduce a new type of tax, we cannot ignore how you manipulate this market in a sly way. Because a new tax will be introduced, which will not hurt, or a new tax would be introduced, which is obviously not going to hurt companies that lick advertising revenues from companies with various monopoly positions in public ownership. And, Mr. Secretary, listen, it's important that we have a monopoly company. [[András Tállai: Are we in kindergarten, kindergarten?]] Because the monopoly means that the company doesn't compete. If anyone has a competitor; you might find this funny, I would be less... [[András Tállai: I think it's funny that you're a kindergarten teacher! We're not in kindergarten!]] If anyone has a competitor, they need advertising. If someone doesn't have a competitor, why does he advertise? That's a question we've been waiting for years to answer. The second is that what I said in my introduction follows from the fact that, of course, we do not argue with the government to place advertisements on public-use matters, but we find it particularly useful if the government provides information to citizens in order to exercise their rights or to fulfil their obligations. But what kind of public benefit information, for example, is it when they advertise lies on billboards that Hungary is doing better and other blokes? When they dump millions of letters based on different lists in which their different sneaky questions are formulated and instigated? What kind of public information is that? Which Hungarian citizen is this essential for exercising his rights or fulfilling his obligations? One word, like a hundred: until government propaganda is banned, until the monopolistic, non-competitive, public-owned companies are free to spend public money, all of us money on non-good, lying advertisements, simply speaking intelligently not only about media tax, but also about advertising tax. Finally, I would also like to say that it is obvious that this game, now this amendment of the law, has hit walls, has been pressured by the government, and is once again performing the usual play, kicking down. They crashed into a European Union wall, I think some multinational media companies have also pressured the Orbán government through governments, and your response is this reduction of the tax-free border, which, I stress once again, has only one result: small and medium-sized media companies in Hungary are being destroyed. So while you are proclaiming in words that the national middle class must be strengthened and these deaf texts are pressed, the facts speak for themselves. Laws which have the same direction as the political direction of previous governments are constantly and for many of the time being introduced before the House, broadening the gap between small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and multinational companies as well as their suppliers in the court. And yet, of course, it would be possible to talk intelligently about advertising tax - a media tax - if otherwise there were a predictable economic environment. The idea of introducing taxes on the basis of a gang war continues to strengthen the policy of which the Prime Minister declared the opposite in the summer of 2010. Where's the beer salad, Mr. Secretary, which was promised in the summer of 2010? For the time being, we can see that, as an idea, as a result of momentary power interests, they make up sound taxes, they are introduced, and again I can only say that the inaccessible tax system, the unpredictable legal environment, is, in the first place, only the domestic small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because they are the ones who are unable to pay for such a large financial apparatus, a financial and legal apparatus that can manage the increasingly opaque tax administration system. Therefore, in addition to drawing attention to the fact that the amendment is disastrous in terms of expanding the gap between large multi-enterprises and domestic SMEs in another sector, and also the so-called advertising tax law itself, which is a media tax law [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You need to withdraw and end the gang war. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-32	There is now an opportunity for independent representatives to comment. I'll see if anyone wants to live with that. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Now it's time for two minutes. First, Congressman Tamás Bellozó pressed a button. You have the floor.
u2015-05-27-33	Thank you for the floor. With all due respect, my fellow Member Schiffer, I ask with great respect that you calm down. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I'm sure you didn't listen to what I said. We have said that we agree with the direction of the amendments. You know, yesterday at the TAB meeting, where you weren't present, we voted in favour of the LMP amendment proposal. I merely dared to remind you and everyone else that our three-hour amendment - and yours, I'm sorry - probably does not have an impact assessment just as the government does not have an impact assessment of what the HUF 100 million threshold will cause in this market. I don't think you have an accurate picture of 500 million forints. I don't think a opposition faction can have one in three hours. What I asked for, however, was only that I draw attention to Fidesz's large four-minute 14-second lead speech, in which the lead speaker even pointed out that the function of advertising tax here is that the damn media, as he said, should focus not on revenue growth, but on quality and quality programmes in the future. All I would ask of my fellow members of the Government with great respect is that before their eyes burst into tears on the basis of this thought, ask their fellow minister Péter Szijjártó what it felt like to be a member of the Government of Hungary with Tímea Vajna, Norbi Schobert, Alma Pirner, and Hal on the cake, and then say such things about such a bill. Finally, I would like to ask with great respect the members of the present KDNP fraction whether KDNP, as a party, has an opinion on advertising tax. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-34	Ladies and gentlemen, The further speeches will now take place within the given timeframe. Congressman Gergely Bárándy asked for a normal word on behalf of the MSZP. [[9.50]]
u2015-05-27-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think others have referred to this, but I am making it clear. If we look at the reasons for the submission of this law, we can certainly not avoid it in a general debate and, above all, we cannot avoid referring to the precedents. If we did not look at the social environment and the history of this law alone, then the point would actually be left out of the speeches. This was preceded by what my fellow Members have already referred to, and I will do a little bit more, by the fact that there was a television station that began to broadcast programmes, news that the government did not like. This television tax, which is the only one of government critical television stations, is watched by more than one million, up to two million viewers, and this has already been a problem for the government. He could not do to him what he would do to the public media, by the way, to distort the news; it seems that the MTI refused to publish certain opposition communications either by order or as a result of its own loyalty. This television tax broadcasts unpleasant news broadcasts to the government and broadcasts what the opposition has long complained about: how the government operates, what corruption acts it has, what deals it does, how the moon yard develops, and how only people close to the government win individual applications. These and other topics that were embarrassing to the government were the subject of these shows. After that, you came up with an ad tax, which was designed to affect a single television tax to a 40 percent degree, and that was exactly the RTL Club I was just talking about; obviously with the aim of being either relegated or driven out of the country. Then came the events, the government tried to fight. The government ordered the NAV to investigate a transaction in 2011. You know, when the government intervenes in such a sphere by means of power, it is not a characteristic of democratic countries, but I mention this in parentheses. In practice, RTL Klubra has instigated the tax authority as a threat to a case several years ago, i.e. a creative case. Then, when this didn't work, they raised the tax from 40 to 50 percent, which also affected the RTL Club. Then came the government's explanation of the failure of the opposition and everyone who says that the nature of the news broadcasts made the advertisement tax, at all, this institution and it was thrown out in this way, as I said before, because it was the idea of advertising, and then it was only that the RTL Club began to broadcast such programmes. By the time atlatszo.hu found the impact study ordered by the Prime Minister's Office - and János Lázár acknowledged it at the time - in which it was said that the media image of government news had developed negatively in the RTL Club programmes during the period under consideration, and that the RTL Club did not explain the reduction in rent to the government in a proper way and colour. Now, that's ahead of the idea of introducing a commercial tax. I think that's what made it clear that the government has no other purpose but to use the news channel with which it is critical and watched by many, either to make it impossible or to blackmail it or to drive it out of the country. Now, that's the history of this law. Then there were other events. The European Commission, as my fellow Member Schiffer pointed out, expressed serious concerns about advertising tax. Then we started an inquiry into the Venice Commission, just the other day we had a delegation from the Venice Commission, perhaps a few weeks ago, and the Hungarian media situation and the advertising tax in particular were the subject of the investigation. German Chancellor Merkel then visited Hungary as a closing chord, and the miracle of miracles, a few days after that, the government announced that it would significantly modify the advertising tax and abolish this 40 percent and 50 percent maximum tax rate. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, the hypocritical wording of the government's or government's proposal's justification that this is an amending proposal resulting from such an independent decision is simply not true, it is a lie, a simple lie. This, Mr. Secretary of State, has been forced upon you, this is the big deal. And I am not happy, Mr. Secretary of State - before you start using it - that we have managed to force the Hungarian government from abroad, but I am glad that we have finally managed to prevent a regulation that was one of the tools of the Hungarian government's vendetta. I am truly sorry that the Hungarian government even thought to submit such a proposal, this is a shame. The biggest problem is not that you had to come back from this because of external pressure, which is not the biggest problem. We all know that when we enter a community, of course, either a private individual or a state gives up certain elements of their sovereignty, it's natural, it's a voluntary story. And if that is the case, it also obliges the state to comply with the Community standards it has voluntarily undertaken. I want us to have a government that will do that. So I think that anyone who interprets this as an external compulsion that threatens Hungary's sovereignty is seriously mistaken. You're wrong. We have listened to the Committee on Legislative Affairs to explain this to my better fellow Member. I am only throwing this forward because there will obviously be such a reaction to my speech; that is not the case here. We would expect, for example, that if another state were to do the same to a Hungarian company, then the European community would act in the interests of that company, in the interest of protecting it, and that a European machine was set up as a result of violations of Community standards and an infinitely undemocratic government operation. You know, I'm not happy about this. I would like the government to operate itself in such a way that it is in the interest of the Hungarian people and the freedom of the press. But if the government doesn't work that way, it is better to have an external force that can force it to do so than to have a regulation in place that seriously violates anti-democratic freedom of the press and freedom of expression. That's the thing. I know this is a delicate subject, but I still think that there should be clear sentences in this. Well, that is the background of this tabled bill, that is, if we are discussing this law - and I do not wish to repeat what my fellow Member has said about it from a professional point of view and expressed his criticisms, because it is also correct and appropriate, of course - then it should be seen that this is already a consequence of the process that I have just outlined. It is a consequence of this process, and not the decision to present this bill here to the Parliament, resulting from a sovereign decision on its own. That is why we think - and perhaps there is a debate between my fellow Member Belling and my fellow Member Schiffer - that it may be easy to resolve this misunderstanding, let me call it that - that is why we are saying on a principle basis that we cannot support this law, this law is a waste. [[10.00]] It is a pity to propose amendments to this law, because, after such a history, it is apparent that this law is actually a way of leading and tying up this process, rather than the government seeing with decency that what it has done is untenable and unacceptable, and it would put me off this whole thing. What my fellow Member Schiffer submitted, as my fellow Member Bellozó said, we support because it makes it a little better, or let me put it this way that it makes the very bad one less bad. But it is still true that we cannot support all of this with or without an amendment, so I think that is the difference between the two opinions, the opinion of my fellow Member Schiffer and my fellow Member Bellozó. Based on all these backgrounds and, by the way, the criticisms that have been formulated, I myself say that it is impossible to support this law. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-36	I now give the floor to Mr President Novak in a normal time frame.
u2015-05-27-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. László Kövér talks a lot about the dignity of the Parliament, which I think is most offended by the fact that, not only did they make the substantive debate impossible, but now, not even to appear, a party with a parliamentary faction, as in principle, KDNP, does not even have a pro form for a separate bill. And they could have done so in the case of this proposal that Fidesz would hand over a printed paper to KDNP and his representative would read it [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] In fact, You know what? They could have said their own opinions without being prepared, they could have said it now, as they usually do: stand up, read the title of the proposal [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] the date and registration number of his submission, when discussed by which committee; perhaps if you want to say something of substance exceptionally, you should read his statement of reasons, right (Development in the ranks of the opposition). ) and they have already carried out representative work. But that, by interrupting this practice, they do not even appear to have such an opinion, which, I think, violates the dignity of the Parliament, as well as the fact that the government, I think, does not take part in the debate in a bit of a bad faith, but reacts, in a closed voice, when we no longer have the opportunity to live up to its opinion, because often we hear untruths. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Right now!]] Which would be nice to have in a meaningful debate. That is why I would like you to give an opinion on what we have said here, for example, in the context of the debate and not in the closing section, about what the revenue from the advertising tax should be spent on. We'd like to make it clear how we got here. We would like you to express your views on the free internet as to whether this is feasible from the advertising tax, or whether I would like to continue to use this money indirectly. We would like to hear objections to our arguments for the free internet, if any, or we can support it with new arguments. After all, I could also mention the requirement for balanced information required by the media constitution, which is being trampled on by commercial media, I would add, unfortunately, even the public service, and this will be without consequences. I mean, you're not interested in violating such legitimate laws, you're not being sanctioned, either through the Media Council, you're letting this go without consequences. The most discriminated party in Hungary is Jobbik, who is accused of discrimination; while His Majesty's opposition is in popularity far behind us, and despite its presence in parliamentary power with similar support, it can still have a much larger media presence in various media throughout the media, according to the statement of the Media Council of only fidesz members. Why do they leave these violations without consequences? These are the answers that we would like to hear and why this advertising tax is actually being used for a penalty that has been used to make media more government-friendly, and now it is for small and medium-sized enterprises. It should also be said that the RTL Club also lied when it frightened me, intimidated me when introducing the advertising tax, that it would eliminate its most popular, highest-rated shows. It did not eliminate them, as it could be covered by us, but many believed it. Let us say that the RTL Club has unfortunately lied again on this issue, as it regularly lies in its newscast, but these should not be left without consequences, with fair media council procedures, not with such background negotiations. After all, we do not see the real reason for this proposal, so let me quote it in chronological terms and try to sum it up together, Mr Secretary of State, how many turns have been made in the course of this proposal. Step 1: Parliament voted on Jobbik's proposal on 25 October 2010. This was, in fact, a one-word proposal proposing the introduction of the advertising tax. In the case of the bill on freedom of the press and fundamental rules for media content, we had a single amendment, and I quote:. The special tax system of media content providers on their income from advertising revenue is organised by the National Assembly by law. That's it, so it's a foundation. We would have laid down in law the need to levy the advertising tax, and the details of it could have been or could have been carried out in a separate debate a few years later, since, in the end, this improved 2010 amendment was met, which we would have wanted to put into law at the time, so it was achieved without ultimately voting in favour. But until then, it took a long time, causing a lot of revenue loss, while the small people were being bullied, and only as the elections were approaching were raised to deal with the advertising tax that mainly hit multinational companies. A few years passed, until it was uploaded to the government's website in May 2013, so to speak, to a social debate on the government's proposal for advertising tax. However, the months passed and nothing happened, so in July 2013, after a few months, I was here, perhaps as the last speaker of the last day before the summer, following the agenda. Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga stood up - this in itself does not usually respond to suspicious post-op speeches, not even at the level of State Secretary, let alone at ministerial level, but stood up - and said that they did not need them a few months ago - we knew then that, for blackmail only, as a threat to blackmail media in order to make it more government-friendly, he had put in place an ad tax, and said that I quote from the protocol: "The Hungarian Government has now considered whether or not the introduction of this tax is necessary. The budget does not require the introduction of such a tax. 'So, Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, which is amazing. It is amazing, because how many and how many questions we cannot afford, how many times we get the answer that it is very justified, let us say, if we look at the biggest problem of Hungarians, the catastrophic demographic processes, which now makes us not only the pension system, but the whole public finances will not be sustainable, and even the advisory board led by Márius Révész does not actually have money for its proposals for demographic change, and there is also a lack of paradigm measures, which they think we should be happy because there is no money, and while the Minister of National Economy says that this is not necessary. It's quite depraved. I therefore submitted a proposal for advertising tax published on the Government's website in May 2013 in autumn 2013, i.e. after a few months, that if the government does not submit it, I will submit it. You voted against that. So not only Mihály Varga, but also the mamelukes, lined up behind such a new turn of events, as it was voted out in 2010, it was submitted in 2013, it was put to debate, but not only on the government's website before the National Assembly, and then in 2013 it was swept down even in the autumn here in Parliament. But then it's been six months again, it's June 2014 when what do we see? L. Simon László, as an independent motion - by chance not as a government referral - presents the proposal when it is memorable how he made an idiot out of RTL Klub L. Simon László that he did not know his own proposal. We know that he did not write this proposal, but it was submitted, essentially with minor amendments to the previous proposal. I don't know now, Mr. Secretary. Did you count how many turns this took? We didn't see either one of them's reasons. So what I'm particularly interested in is what's behind all this, if not the fact that they're at war with Lajos Simicska; indeed, the LMP has rightly called it a kind of gang war. However, we do not support this, not only because we believe that this should normally be born on a principled basis: we said in the autumn of 2010 that advertising tax on multinational companies is needed instead of on small people. It's a principled position, not that we're having a little war with Lajos Simicska, we have to fight back, and so now we have to repel the smaller mediums. This is unacceptable, but our main criticism now is that small and medium-sized enterprises are now facing a greater burden on media operated by multinational companies, which is why we do not consider it eligible. We look forward to your professional arguments, since the justification is again a bit of a misconception. We look forward to the explanation of their series of turns and, of course, we must not accept the pressure of the RTL Club and the European Union, and we must not allow them to do so. After all, we could see how lying their arguments were and how deceitful the protest on advertising tax was, in fact, more comprehensively, from the larger media that we could not hear from them when the world's largest VAT rate was introduced in Hungary. When the small people, the Hungarian people, were repeatedly humiliated, we never heard the media protest, they didn't show up with a blank cover, but when they felt their own interests hurt, they did. [[10.10]] This showed their true identity, but the government showed its true self with this now n+1 turnaround in the advertising tax case. That is why we would like to see clearly what will happen next, when they plan or under what conditions they plan to make their next turn again. Answer this, please, Mr State Secretary, and if you could count the number of turnarounds in the advertising tax case, I would expect a number in the context of the debate, and preferably not as a closing point when we can no longer respond to it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-38	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2015-05-27-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, would like to ask the Secretary of State for some math homework. As a passive participant in the debate, I would now be more and more interested in having an opinion in the debate, which can be responded to, as I would basically like to know what the opposition stands for, because there is a good two-thirds majority of the opposition in Parliament - our pro-government fellow Members quite figuratively respect the debate - and I do not actually hear any arguments in this debate, which would be in addition. Obviously, we see a hypocrisy from the budgetary side, a lie taking place. Technically, the calculation that I want to ask Mr Secretary of State to do is to tell us what Mr. Group leader asked us about how much the advertising costs of state-owned companies actually amount to each year. How much money does Magyar Posta spend, and MVM spend a lot of other state monopolies to use advertising costs? How does this affect the survival of these media, and how does the state contribute to, let us say, media spaces that are at the disposal of the ruling parties as a political mouthpiece? Obviously, without any knowledge of the advertising industry, this is what bothers me particularly, because I see that Parliament has been exercising legislation as an instrument of power in the last year, since I have been here, and is trying to implement how legislation can be used for the political purposes of Fidesz. Now I would be happy to hear any rebuttal from the Secretary of State or any of the members of the Government that this legislation is not about that. There was a shameless, unworthy piece of legislation, and now they're forced to change it, and there should be a similar - by other means - blasphemous piece of legislation, which, on the other hand, doesn't have any purpose that the government talks about, can't serve. Obviously, I too, as an eco-partisan, have reservations about advertising and propaganda activities related to increasing consumption, but as a rural person, I see that a number of small and medium-sized enterprises or really small family businesses, which, as a forced self-employed person, are not yet included in the statistical number that was the highest figure in April, trying to survive, try to advertise their small activities at local level, through local broadcasters or through local newspapers, sooner or later, they get these extra burdens on their necks. In these small family businesses, which you are supposed to want to embrace, we have been hearing this for at least a year, but we do not see anything in action, the cost of these is coming down. There are obviously two things we are talking about here in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises. On the one hand, we are talking about what Mr Group Leader said, in part, the small advertising service providers who have been trying to make a living at local level so far, but also contributing to the destruction of the little ones who have been advertised, who have been advertised, and obviously this is not what seems to be a very, very wise economic step. It is therefore painful that, for their purely political purposes, in order to influence the media market, there is once again legislation that serves nothing but to use your power as a technical tool for Parliament to talk about it here as an opposition, while you do not commend our questions on any form of response or reaction to it. And that's what I feel is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-27-40	I now give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács in a normal time frame.
u2015-05-27-41	Dear House, I did not speak to someone from the government side, but rather rather to the media for a long and long time, I must say that I would like to give an opinion by a small farmer who has suffered about a decade and a half. I've done this before in this House, and I think I should confirm that. Media relations in Hungary are not about big media drawing on Fidesz or the opposition, or trying to provide them with better areas, but about simply trying to adapt to the current power. This was well seen in the current legislative process. It is not a story, this House, that the RTL Club is suddenly expressing a sharp anti-government opinion on its own, but it was simply about the enforcement of interests. I therefore believe that there is no particular debate between us that the programmes that appear in certain media certainly deserve to be given some kind of situation in which we have to pay, and here, that we have to pay, there are the boundaries on which we have to think deeply. For me and for us, for many of us, we have the experience that, within the Hungarian media context, one of the decisive factors for everyone - Fidesz, opposition, us, small farmers - is the rural media, the media that I believe this proposal is trying to spare. Then I expect the Secretary of State to answer whether this border, which is now established by the law, affects and affects the smaller media areas that operate in a county or in a major city, exists, often struggling only for existence. I am convinced that these media platforms are trying to fully serve the interests of the people who live there. They can't do anything else because they're in a direct relationship. They do not receive instructions from Luxembourg or elsewhere on how to behave when such and such a law comes before the House, but are specifically and directly receiving the impulses from the people there. Therefore, for us and for me, it is particularly important that they are not damaged. It is important that, through the media platforms that are able and able to get to local people, to rural people, to those that I think we are all trying to support, those people will continue to receive the information they deserve from their own surface, from the areas where they have been operating. These small businesses, as we have just said from Commission President Sallai R. Benedek, are indeed struggling for existence in the vast majority of cases, mostly family businesses. I could tell you a few things about the neighborhood of Pest, who, for a fair, long time, have always tried to make themselves independent of major politics across governments, but to serve local politics, to serve the people who live on the ground. In my reading so far, this bill does not harm their interests. I would like a reassuring answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-42	Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2015-05-27-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, I would just like to respond briefly to my fellow Member, Barándy. Of course, we are aware - and thank you for quoting - that this amendment is necessary here because the Hungarian government has hit an external wall. It's just that I'm not proud of it at all. I think - and this is a 25-year experience - that it is bad that when something has to be done by the Hungarian Parliament or the Hungarian government in accordance with external expectations, it is bad. I would like to ask the Government to understand, without a better result, Mr Tállai State Secretary, that this bill, which was last year's bill, is completely unfounded, is unsuitable for any stated purpose. Let us not do something good to strengthen the Hungarian economy, or let the Hungarian press be less manipulated, or let us hold back the consumption because some external power expects us to do so, but because it is good for Hungarian people. I would like to point out what my fellow Member Sallai said: Minister of State, for example, you have seen as an individual Member of Parliament that if someone, say, wants to start a local business in or around Mezőcsát, where can they advertise? [[10.20]] You may not be able to find an advertising platform even in Northern Hungary. But if you want to market your products, you want to advertise your services, you can only place ads in a media company in the area of Mezőkövesd, a publishing company. This bill, on the other hand, is killing these babies. This bill, which is now in front of us, which brings down the tax-free limit, is exactly another step towards strangling the local economy against the stated targets. If local producers, local entrepreneurs, family farms cannot reach the local community because you do not, because you are destroying small media businesses, publishing companies that would otherwise be mediators of the local economy, then there will be further atrophy in the local economy. Let's face it, and that's why I want you to forget about this whole bill. And the other one, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that you continue to be indebted to the question of what kind of budget needs will lead you to the advertising tax when it is enough to reach into Andy Vajna's pocket. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-44	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-05-27-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, we agree perfectly with each other. I, too, think that it is fortunate that the country has a government that respects freedom of the press, which respects the system of brakes and counterweights, which does not want to create a system of courts contrary to Hungarian and international standards and constitutional rules, which does not want to change the nomination of constitutional judges without complying with any democratic rules, and I can still give examples, examples that we have raised together with Mr Schiffer in the last five years. I'd like that, too. I'd like that, too. Obviously, all opposition parties, including, once again, all of them and all the opposition representatives, are fighting to be a government that behaves this way, if I think so. Another question is that even if there is a compulsion, it is better that the parties of government cannot complete such an infinitely undemocratic system, even if it comes from the outside. That's all I said, nothing more. That's all I said, and that's all I'm saying right now. I would welcome it if not the European Union, if it were not for the Council of Europe to force these steps, but for the Hungarian Government to think that it is natural for us to operate and enforce laws in accordance with the spirit of the rule of law, the idea of freedom of the press, but it is still better for someone to do so instead of the government, because then at least these rules will not apply. That's all I said, and that's what I'm saying right now. I do not think that I have a disagreement with my fellow Member Schiffer. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-46	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict for a normal speech.
u2015-05-27-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to say much more than two minutes. First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Barándy's wish for opposition, which he has said, and I will also consider it on a regular basis. The strange thing is that the government talks about fair insurance companies and fair banks, but the time for fair governments has not yet come in Hungary in the last 25 years. This is our greatest sadness, because then the sectors could be made fair and correct. If you allow me, my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, I would like to say that, unfortunately, we are still not getting answers from the government to the questions raised, but I myself, if there is such a small farmer who takes into account eco-social foundations, I will make my decision on the same points. The problem is that there is an answer to these concerns that my fellow Member has raised, because I do not know if you have been contacted, but we have been contacted by small advertising studios by e-mail. On behalf of the small Hungarian advertising agencies, we have been written by workers in the sector, who say that these small local advertising platforms will disappear most of the time, unfortunately it is where local services and small businesses may be able to gain some level of visibility, and it is not about creating harmful advertising platforms for society and selling a multitude of advertisements that are harmful to health and society. No! They want to present the services, they want to explain their activities, they want to start. In the same way, they may be victims of this advertising law. We have received clear answers to this, and my better fellow Member, Mr Group leader, has also pointed out that these requests are the basis for the concerns that we are unfortunately not getting from the government side. So I would like to point out to my fellow Member that, if the values that he has said in his speech are important, then unfortunately we must look critically at this legislation, because there is a strong chance that it will hit exactly the people that we have both come to represent in Parliament, and unfortunately it will not be a burden for those who can bear these taxes without further ado. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-48	I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the consolidated debate is closed, and I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, the rapporteur. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Let's hear it! Dr. András Schiffer: Let's hear it!]]
u2015-05-27-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've had an interesting debate. [[Rumble and clear in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Sallai R. Benedek: There was no debate, only we talked!]] It was a debate, because the ruling parties also gave their opinion, what's more, the government has also said [[The Foreman of Novak: Parties? KDNP, too?]] the opinion of the European The most important statement is that all five political groups and parties in Parliament support the advertising tax. [[Foreman Novák and Dr. András Schiffer: The KDNP?]] As it turned out, the Hungarian Socialist Party also wanted to introduce the advertising tax on the government, but the Hungarian Socialist Party was not as brave as it was in opposition. He's very brave against the government, but he seems to have been a coward. Of course, it does not support the current bill or amended bill, but it is only an acceptable position from an opposition party. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Do you support KDNP?]] That he doesn't support a tax law. Jobbik supports the introduction of advertising tax so much that it has even submitted a bill to Parliament. [[Dr. András Schiffer: And why did you reject that?]] Although that bill was a bill that does not take into account that Hungary is a member of the European Union. Jobbik always submits a bill to Parliament as if Hungary had already left the European Union. Now, that bill was like that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There's another one in common with Fides!]] It's also very interesting that András Schiffer at LMP also said that they have nothing against advertising tax [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is not it!]] In fact, they only have a problem with the government who introduces it. [[Rumors from the LMP line.]] I do not see much counter-reactions, so we can conclude that all the parties in the Hungarian Parliament have become friendly with the [[Dr. András Schiffer: What did KDNP say? What did the MSZP say?]] with the idea of advertising, with its plan, and they all support it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You didn't pay much attention to the debate!]] The fact that the debate takes place in an exceptional procedure is a bit interesting, because it can be seen that over a long period of time, in the 30-minute period, the parties could not really do anything. The intention was to talk about it, but to do so, we had to bring up other topics, such as the abuse of MSZP in relation to Magyar Television, the media. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That was his history! Dr. András Schiffer: You're not listening!]] Jobbik's questions about the Internet tax, or what convinced me completely that the ad tax was being supported by everyone. [[Foreman Novak: Free Internet!]] András Schiffer had read his speech on paper, and he wanted the Parliament and the public to believe that there was no need to amend the advertising tax law. [[Forebod Novak: That should be the biggest problem! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What are you reading about?]] Moreover, they are also familiar with the issue of advertising tax at international level. Mr. President, I'm asking you to tidy up the room. You wanna try? [[We're not criticizing the president.]]
u2015-05-27-50	I don't think it's that much noise yet, but I will definitely tell my fellow Members to listen to the closing.
u2015-05-27-51	Thank you. So there's international practice in advertising tax. I'm sure the congressmen know that. Perhaps the most well-known is the neighbouring Austria, which has applied the advertising tax since 2000, which represents 5 percent of the turnover, almost identical to the Hungarian advertising tax. There are so many differences that while this bill of advertising tax comes into force only above the sales limit of HUF 100 million, this is not the case in Austria, and this is what the European Commission is attacking. [[10.30]] Moreover, in Romania there is also turnover, in Greece it is quite high, it is 20-21 percent, it is also beyond Sweden and Europe. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's what we talked about.]] So it is clear that the practice of advertising tax is not a form of taxation invented in Hungary. And the debate on how this will affect smaller media platforms, I think that the 100 million border to which the government insists will protect these media service providers. After all, these small local televisions, radios or the sales limits of local advertising newspapers mentioned by Mr Schiffer unfortunately stop... - 100 million forints; therefore the fear that local service providers, the local economy, will be weakened by this new advertising tax law, I do not think it will hold up. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I would like to emphasise that all five parties agree with the idea of advertising tax. [[Dr. András Schiffer: KDNP? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He didn't say! Deterioration in opposition benches.]] And we're happy about that, because it's consistent with the government's position. The government also believes that advertising tax is needed in Hungary [[Dr. András Schiffer to Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Did you hear that? Dr. András Schiffer's name.]] and asks the Parliament to support the adoption of the bill following the proper debate that took place in the vote. Thank you very much. And I also thank the opposition parties, especially Andra Schiffer, for the yelling. [[No one was screaming!]] He's acting like he's in kindergarten, by the way. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds. The Fat László! Interview from the benches of MSZP: Iron Claps!]]
u2015-05-27-52	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on today's sitting, which will start at 11:15 p.m., so I'll take a break until then. [[Break: 10.32 11.17President: Dr. János Latorcai Recorders: József Attila Móring and Ádám Mirkóczki]]
u2015-05-27-53	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. I'll ask you to take your seats, make sure your voting cards are properly placed in the voting machine. We will continue our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Dear Parliament, There will be a final vote on three proposals for which no amendments have been tabled and no committee related to the debate, and therefore, in the absence of a statement on the conduct of a detailed debate, we will decide on the submitted text of the legislative proposals in the final vote. Dear Parliament, The Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change will follow on 8 December 2012 in Doha, the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The final vote on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the European Parliament and to the Council adopted at its Conference. The submission was made by T/4636. was available. The rapporteur is T/4636/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4636 accepts it. Act No.1, including the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the International Telecommunications Association on the publication of the Agreement on the organisation, organisation and financing of the ITU Telecom World 2015 conference follows. The submission was made by T/4645. was given to them. The rapporteur is T/4645/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4645 accepts it. Act No.1, including the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 134 votes in favour, 4 against and 27 abstentions. The final vote of the bill on the publication of the agreement on the Visegrád Patent Institute will follow. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4647 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the 1997 XXXI on Children's Protection and Child Welfare Administration. T/4448 amending Act T/4448 on the extension of free nursery and preschool children's meals. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must decide to maintain an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments T/4448/2, 3, 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. We are now deciding to maintain Amendment 2. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. I am now putting Amendment 3 to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. We are deciding on Amendment 4. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. Since the Parliament has not maintained a proposal for an amendment and there has not been a proposal for an amendment to the proposal, we are now deciding on the submitted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4448. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[11.20]] The 1995 LXIV on the Children's and Youth Fund, the National Foundation for Children and Youth and on the organisation of certain state tasks related to youth. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4450 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 111 votes in favour, 29 against and 28 abstentions. It follows a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015. The submission is T/4477. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4477/12 and T/4477/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments T/4477/3, 6 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. We are now deciding to maintain Amendment 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. I am now putting Amendment 6 to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. It is now up to the decision to make Amendment 8. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/4477/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is the T/4477/15 submitted by the national Parliament. It shall send to the President of the Fiscal Council a single draft budget bill. The Council shall inform the President of the Parliament within three days of the adoption of Article 25 of the Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote is expected to take place at our next meeting. Next up is the 2011 CXC on national public education. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/4476. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4476/12 and T/4476/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4476/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 111 votes in favour, 35 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4476/14. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It follows that CLXXXIV of 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/4449. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4449/6 and T/4449/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4449/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. [[11.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4449/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 168 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. The 2011 CLVI amending certain tax laws and related other laws follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending the Act and a final vote. The submission was made in T/4452. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/4452/11 and T/4452/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/4452/5. and the MSZP Group on T/4452/3. Amendment Nos 4 and 4 were proposed to continue. That's what we're gonna decide first. The maintenance decision of Amendment 5 follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 110 against and 29 abstentions. I am now putting Amendment 3 to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 115 against and 24 abstentions. The decision of Amendment 4 follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 110 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4452/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4452/15. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes to four, with 27 abstentions. Next up is the 2011 CLXXXVII on Vocational Training. Act LXXVII of 2013 on Adult Education a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and related laws and a final vote. The submission is T/4475. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/4475/44 of the Legislative Committee's proposal and its summary report T/4475/45. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/4475/12. and 13, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments T/4475/18, 19 and 22 and the Jobbik Group of amendments T/4475/5, 6 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. It follows a decision on Amendment 12. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 110 against and without abstentions. We are voting on Amendment 13. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. I am now putting Amendment 18 to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. We will now decide on Amendment 19. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. We are voting on the motion for Amendment 22. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 108 against and without abstention. We are deciding on an amendment to Amendment 5. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 112 against and 2 abstentions. We will decide on the proposal for Amendment 6. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 133 against and 3 abstentions. I am now putting Amendment 8 to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 137 against and 2 abstentions. Since Parliament, my fellow Members, has not maintained an amending proposal, we are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4475/44. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes to 31, with 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4475/49. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. The 1998 XXVII on genetic engineering follows a series of steps. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill is being discussed by Parliament by way of house rules. The submission is T/4818. The IT network is available to all of us. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/4818/6, and its summary report T/4818/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.40]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4818/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 164 votes, 1 votes against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4818. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 161 votes in favour, without voting against, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, A final vote on the bill amending the laws relating to advertising tax will follow. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. The submission is T/4900. It was available to all of them on the IT network. The Legislative Committee has not submitted a summary amendment and its summary report is T/4900/3. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is now the final vote. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4900 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill 114 yes, with 50 votes not, without abstention. We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to inform you that the debate has already been held at yesterday's meeting. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on certain measures necessary for the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2016 by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély MSZP colleagues, H/4216. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution 61 yes, 110 not voting, without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Nándor Gúr and its fellow Members. The increase in the minimum wage, submitted at H/4375, to establish the central budget for 2016 and to eliminate the poverty of workers. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 60 yes, 109 no votes and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by our fellow Members, Mr László György Lukács, Gábor Vona and Mr Lajos Rig, on the restoration of the true respect of nurses, H/4685. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 59 yes, 105 no votes, with three abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Mr András Schiffer on the exclusion of offshore businesses from public funds and on the removal of the public administration from the offshore sector. T/4198. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's bill [[Dr. András Schiffer: Long live the offshores!]] 61 yes, 106 votes to none, with 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles on the T/4291 amendment by András Schiffer and his fellow Members to combat workers' poverty. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill in a series of 60 yeses, 109 votes and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break so that all our fellow Members who leave the Chamber for the performance of their official duties can do so without disturbing the others. Thank you for your understanding. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. I would ask all those who do not wish to participate in the debate over the coming minutes to go to the corridors next to the Chamber. [[11.50]] My fellow Members, who wish to take part in the debate, take their seats. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and the submission of the State Audit Office's opinion will be launched. The bill is T/4730. T/4730/5. He may have been recognized. I very much welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budgets will act as a legislative committee in the course of the hearing of the bill. I would also like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today and the main rules of the debate. Here you go, notary.
u2015-05-27-54	Dear Parliament, Today's six-hour timeframe is divided into 124 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 56 minutes for the KDNP Group, 68 minutes for the MSZP Group, 62 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 37 minutes for the LMP Group and 13 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day.
u2015-05-27-55	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. With all due respect, I would like to draw the attention of all of you to this last notary sentence. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Members of the European Parliament with a political background may speak against the time frame of the factions if they have indicated their intention to speak to the faction. Members of the European Parliament who do not have a political background and who sign up directly may use a speaking time equal to the speaking time for an independent Member. Dear Parliament, Today, in the general debate, the opening speech of the authors will take place in a total of 40 minutes, the speech of the President of the State Audit Office in a 30-minute time frame, the speaking time of the President of the Board of Budgets will also be 30 minutes, the main speeches of the political groups will also take place in 30-30 minutes, the speech of the minority spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary will be held in 20 minutes, and the further speeches will be made to the extent of the time frame of the political groups in accordance with the standard terms of the speeches. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment to the budget law is subject to the House Rule 29. A proposal may be made on Friday at 16 a.m. using a form ordered pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Article. This is, of course, available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame, who tells the expo from this platform. Here you go, Minister. We'll wait for him to get up on the platform. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-05-27-56	Thank you. Mr. President. Dear House, Tax reduction, planning and development. These are the three words that best summarize the essence of the 2016 central budget. This is what the government's economic policy provides for employees, Hungarian families, municipalities and businesses. The budget for the tax reduction is much more than just a financial planning document, the most important pillar of the creation of civil Hungary. The 2016 budget is a budget for a new era. It focuses on development, the exploitation of opportunities, and support for the progress of people and families. Five years ago, we know our economy was about to collapse. In 2009, we were already down by 6.8 percent, and between 2002 and 2010, the number of people without work doubled, from 240 thousand to 480 thousand. The solution to these problems could only have been a complete turnaround in economic policy, and if we look at the results from here, it has not been that long. Since 2013, we can see that our economy is developing, and its structure is increasingly balanced, and in 2014 the rate of growth has reached 3.6 percent. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that Hungary is doing well above the EU average. In 23 years, the number of workers has not been as high as in recent months, i.e. in five years the number of jobs has increased by more than 440 thousand. According to recent data, 4 million 117 thousand people have jobs in Hungary. Accordingly, real earnings are rising and consumption is also increasing well. Five years ago, the general government deficit was almost completely out of control, but today we have not only controlled its development, but we have achieved a decrease. Hungary's gross domestic production-related government debt has fallen to 76,9 per cent at the end of 2014 after a total reduction of 4 percentage points since 2010. This has led to one of the largest debt reductions in Europe. Hungary has therefore entered among the fastest developing states in the Union, our gross domestic product and performance has reached the pre-crisis level, and has even exceeded it since then. So I have every reason to say that the government's economic policy has proven its strength. Two years ago, I started my exposé by giving Hungarian people the confidence to look forward to the future. It is therefore reassuring that, based on our results, we have already been able to prepare a budget for tax reduction and development and development by 2016. Thanks to favourable real economic developments, we will have a conservative estimate of 2.5 percent economic growth by 2016, with a disciplined fiscal policy with a deficit of 2 percent and an increase in consumption at 1.6 percent inflation. Dear House, We had more reasons to prepare the budget much earlier than usual this year. In addition to the previous date, it was easier for municipalities and economic operators to plan their next year in the light of next year's budget. There is longer and more time to prepare their 2016 economic plans, knowing what tax policy changes and what fiscal planning parameters will be. In addition, we had to submit Hungary's convergence programme to the European Commission in April, so we had to do the planning work. Thus, the spring drafting of the draft budget law ensured full consistency between the two documents. Dear Parliament, Crisis management has closed, stabilisation has been achieved, and growth has started. [[12.00]] In practice, this means that the 2.5 percent increase planned for 2016 will result in a budget surplus of around HUF 330 billion. In addition, the reduction in public debt from 2015 to 2016 is expected to save HUF 75 billion in interest expenditure. The additional revenue from the growth surplus and savings give us greater leeway to achieve our economic policy goals, including tax reduction and support for economic growth. The government is committed to ensuring that everyone in Hungary who can and wants to work can work, so we aim to achieve full employment and increase the average income of Hungarian families. Dear House, The budget for 2016 is primarily the budget for tax reductions, whose biggest winners will be families. Tax measures leave a total of HUF 170 billion in Hungarian families, including personal income tax falling from 16 percent to 15 percent, which will leave HUF 120 billion in the family. The reduction of the VAT on pig meat amounts to HUF 25 billion, the increase in the tax relief of two children is HUF 1 billion, and the reduction of the public service fee and the levy is HUF 10 billion for families. At the same time, we will spend more on the preservation of the value of pensions, on wage increases linked to career models, on the expansion of the Start Work Programme, on children's meals, health and social goals, and on sport, education and cultural expenditure. I would also like to say that the National Defence Fund for the avoidance of unforeseen risks contains HUF 100 billion, which is HUF 70 billion higher than this year. So we are not only launching tax reductions and improvements, but we are planning a larger amount as a reserve for 2016 in view of the risks. There is also a legal guarantee that this fund can only be used without compromising the deficit target. In addition, the bill includes a further HUF 135 billion reserve, together with a chapter stability reserve and extraordinary government measures. From next year, every wallet, i.e. every chapter, will be allocated a chapter reserve, which will be released by October if farming has been disciplined and available as a chapter reserve for use in the months of November and December. From all this, it is clear that the disciplined and responsible management that has been in place since the change of government continues. Dear House, Allow me to refer to the macroeconomic picture underlying the preparation of the budget. As I have already said, Hungary has achieved outstanding economic performance in 2014, and the rate of growth has increased to 3.6 percent. The figures of the first quarter of this year are also very positive: the figures published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, which are the same as the government's expectations, show that the performance of the Hungarian economy increased by 3.4 percent in the first quarter of 2015. So our economy has been on a rising track for eight quarters, or two years. It is also clear that we are not experiencing temporary improvements from credit, as has been so often the case in the last 25 years, but that the country is on a long-term and sustainable path to economic growth, because the improved performance has been achieved while maintaining an external and internal balance. The balance of payments also achieves a massive and expanding surplus. The expansion of the production sectors shows that 80,000 more people are working in the competition sector in the first quarter of this year than a year ago. Among the driving sectors, I can highlight the performance of industry at 8 per cent and construction at 9.2 per cent in the first quarter, and more than 10 per cent of market services at tourism and 6.7 per cent of retail. In view of this, the government expects a conservative estimate of an economic expansion of 2.5 per cent by 2016. Thanks to the continuing economic recovery, the positive processes observed in the labour market will also be maintained. Next year, the number of people economically active and those working is rising and the unemployment rate may decrease to around 6 per cent. In the coming period, the structure of the Hungarian economy will also be increasingly balanced, and in addition to exports demand will continue to grow. Growth in household consumption could continue to accelerate both this year and next year. In addition to settling foreign currency loans, it is supported by rising real incomes, record employment and government measures to support families. After strong growth last year, further expansion in investment is also expected. In addition to the increased drawdown of EU funds, credit programmes to support small and medium-sized enterprises and a favourable return environment contribute to this. Economic growth is also supported by a low inflation environment, with a moderate rate of 1.6 percent in 2016. In conclusion, in our macroeconomic projections on which the 2016 budget is based, we plan to increase the Hungarian economy in a sustainable and stable way. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our aim is to enable all Hungarians to experience the positive effects of financial stability, predictable budgets and economic growth, so the family is the most important in 2016. The government's goal is to keep as much money as possible with families, to continue to support childbearing and to help raise children. The family tax system, based on the appreciation of work and child rearing, will continue next year, which has fulfilled the expectations it has had in recent years. One of Europe's lowest personal income tax rates and an increase in family tax relief also contribute to its effectiveness. From 2016 onwards, the family tax relief for families with two children will gradually double in four years, from the current HUF 10 000 per month to HUF 12 500 next year and HUF 20,000 in 2019. This represents a significant step forward in the lives of 350 thousand families, 1 million 400 thousand parents and children. The Gyed extra is maintained in 2016 because it has been proven to encourage the employment of mothers with small children and children. The marriage-related tax relief will continue in 2016. In the next year, there is sufficient resources to expand the family's home-building benefits, which will help families who have or have children to access housing. The government's decision to reduce the cost of living also reduces the VAT rate for pig meat from 27 percent to 5 percent from 1 January 2016. By the way, this step is integral to the decisions taken earlier, when, in the first step, we reduced the VAT of the live pig, the half-carcase, to the same extent. We also support families when paying particular attention to children's meals and the provision of free textbooks. In 2014 we will spend HUF 52.6 billion on children's meals compared to HUF 28.7 billion in 2010 and HUF 61 billion this year, while in 2016 we will spend more than HUF 71.7 billion. Thanks to the extension of the free nursery and kindergarten meals, as early as autumn 2015, up to 230 thousand children can eat free of charge. This will further reduce the cost of raising children for families. The government also supports families in need by extending the free textbook supply system: from 2016 onwards, the textbook supply will be free of charge in the entire lower school, and we provide it in the upper classes, taking into account the need. [[12.10]] In 2016, pensions and certain benefits will also maintain their real value, which will increase at the rate of inflation. Dear House, In addition to a number of other measures for the elderly, we will continue the 40" programme for women, which will allow women with 40 years of work to retire. The burden on older people and families is also reduced by the reduction of the rent, the results of which are to be kept by the government with the national utility system. Dear House, Instead of aid, according to the principle, the government wants everyone in Hungary to have a job and no one needs income support. To this end, we have introduced a fairer and more transparent social support system, in which no one can remain without benefits. We want to achieve full employment in cooperation with the competition sector, and therefore the programmes to stimulate employment will continue and expand. The job protection action, which helps to preserve the jobs of 900,000 people, is also extended to those working in the agricultural sector. In 2016, the government will leave a total of HUF 131 billion in enterprises employing disadvantaged workers. Tax relief for part-time employment of parents with small children will continue to be enforceable. I would remind this House, my fellow Members, that in recent years, as of 1 January 2013, we have gradually introduced the job protection action for several social groups: long-term unemployed, children, children, returnees, under 25, over 55, and beginners.In 2016, public employment will be available for even more people. With this, we want to increase the number of public workers by another 40,000, and there is also a source of strengthening social cooperatives. In the course of next year, 240 thousand people will have the opportunity to participate in the public employment programme, to which HUF 340 billion will be spent next year against HUF 270 billion. Measures to estimate public service workers will continue in 2016. In the framework of the Armed and Police Lifestyle Model, from July this year, the salary of soldiers and law enforcement workers will increase by an average of 30 percent and then by an additional 5-5 percent per year until 2019. In 2016, the budget will provide HUF 121.7 billion to cover a total increase of 35 percent. In the case of civil servants working in armed and law enforcement areas, a further 5% increase will follow this year's increase. As set out in the career model, the wage increase of teachers will continue, so I would like to reassure everyone: every year the wages of employees in the sector will increase until 2017, and in 2016 the progress of the qualification of teachers will contribute to the increase in wages, with a total of HUF 41.1 billion in additional resources available. In the health sector, health professionals and doctors can make progress mainly in the area of mobile wages, while young specialists can improve their income situation. A surplus of HUF 15.3 billion will be available for this. In addition, the social sector wage replacement will be maintained in the following year, with a total annual payment of HUF 12 billion. The introduction of a government civil servant career model will also start in July 2016, for which adequate collateral is available in the provision. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2014-2020 development cycle, Hungarian businesses will be multiplied by their tender opportunities. In Hungary, per capita support has never been as high as in the new EU financial period, reaching the second place in Europe in terms of per capita EU funds and EU grants. Thanks to the new application cycle, which started last year, some HUF 1000 billion of EU funds will be available to the beneficiaries next year, of which some HUF 500 billion could serve the development that directly supports economic growth. These include investments by businesses, infocommunications and energy improvements, R &amp; D, agricultural and food investment and employment support measures. This resource is complemented by the economic development programmes of counties and cities with county rights in the order of HUF 100 billion. Together with the last payments related to the closure of the 2007-2013 programmes, the total amount amounts to some HUF 1400 billion. In addition to the funds in the central budget, nearly HUF 483 billion of agricultural subsidies will continue to arrive in Hungary. However, their accounting and use is not included in the budget as these grants are generally not subject to national co-financing obligations. Dear Parliament, My fellow Members know that in 2013 the government decided to reform the local government system. We have also substantially modified the scope of public and municipal tasks and the funding system for public services to be provided in the municipality. These steps were needed to create a stable and well-functioning municipal system. Since good functioning also needs to create the conditions for farming, the State has fully assumed the debt accumulated by local authorities over the past decades. With three years of experience, I can say behind us that this funding for the tasks to be performed has fulfilled its expectations. In the case of new funding benefits, the proportion of public funding is now around 90 per cent. However, the balance of the local self-government sub-scheme has not been negative in recent years, but has had a fundamentally positive impact on the balance of public finances as a whole, i.e. on the common register of all of us. I would also like to mention here that in the four-year programme for local governments, development aid for non-debt-consolation settlements will continue - this will also happen this year - and HUF 12.5 billion will be available for this purpose. These are the municipalities which have not accumulated any debt and which have thus not been taken over in the last three years. Let me also mention a few specific points regarding the support of local authorities. From 2016 onwards, there will be more resources for childcare facilities and tasks than this year. Particular attention will be paid in particular to the creation of equal opportunities for children. With regard to compulsory kindergarten care from the age of three, we provide a source for the development and long-term maintenance of municipal kindergartens. We continue to support investments in the creation of pre-school seats by tender. We are also committed to keeping no children hungry in Hungary, so from 2016 the support of children's meals will increase by HUF 10 billion, and the number of people receiving free meals will increase significantly. It is an important change that children most in need can now receive adequate food during all holidays. The provision of modern day care for children is also closely linked to the proper recognition of educators and those assisting them in their work. For this reason, the bill already states that the state will contribute to the wages of young children in kindergarten with a higher education degree. In total, municipalities can manage nearly HUF 2500 billion in the following year without a loan source, to which the central budget will provide more than HUF 660 billion in funding. [[12.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The management of the Pension and Health Insurance Fund is also an integral part of the 2016 budget. The balance of the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund will continue to be ensured in 2016. Revenue shall fully cover the expenditure envisaged. The Fund's revenues are mainly derived from two sources: the part of the social contribution tax per fund and the contribution of the insured. As I have already said, we will ensure that the real value of benefits is maintained next year. Thus, they will increase in January 2016 to the same extent as the increase in consumer prices projected in the budget, i.e. inflation. As with the Health Insurance Fund, we have calculated a balance between revenue and expenditure, as in previous years. Most of the Fund's revenue, more than 72%, is provided by contributions and contributions, with an increasing share by budget contributions. The Fund has two key expenditures, financing financial and health insurance benefits in kind. The maximum amount of cash benefits shall be the expenditure on invalidity and rehabilitation benefits. In addition, baby care and childcare fees represent a significant scale. The most important issue of benefits in kind is curative and preventive care. The amount that can be used for this purpose will increase by HUF 33.7 billion in 2016 compared to the previous year. This amount is intended primarily to renew, improve basic supply, cover wage measures proposals and absorb overcapacity. In addition, the health sector will have an additional HUF 11 billion in 2016 to cover the extension, conversion, purchase of rescue cars and operation of the rescue management system, as well as other measures to improve the quality of life. Dear House, A very close and mutual working relationship between the Ministry of Economy, the Budget Council and the State Audit Office was established during the development of the 2016 Budget Bill. The Council did not find any objections to the credibility and enforceability of the draft bill that raised the issue of disagreement with the proposal. At the same time, the Budgetary Council drew attention to the risks to each revenue and expenditure item and proposed an increase in the available reserve amounts. The government, accepting the opinion of the Council, increased the estimate of the National Defence Fund, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. In addition to the Fiscal Council, the State Audit Office assessed the bill submitted by the Government, in line with previous years' practice. The Court has made a number of positive statements on the draft and has made comments on only a few points. Please allow me to express my thanks to the Budget Council and the State Court of Auditors for the significant work that our staff have done during the audit and opinion of the 2016 Budget Bill. Dear Parliament, With the budget submitted to Parliament, we will continue the responsible management so far and we will take due account of possible risks. The adoption of the bill therefore means the security that Hungary needs. I therefore ask you to discuss and accept the bill on the 2016 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-57	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, I would like to welcome Vice-President Tihamér Warvasovszky and his colleagues present at the SAO, who are following our meeting here, on the spot, and hopefully also the meetings on the next budget. I would like to ask President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, to present the State Audit Office's report on the budget in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-05-27-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Dr. István Józsa: Didn't you bring the barrister?]] Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The statutory obligation of the State Court of Auditors to give Parliament an opinion on the merits of the draft law on the central budget, on the fulfilment of revenue appropriations. In order to fulfil this obligation, the State Audit Office has carried out an audit of the bodies carrying out the planning of the central budget appropriations, in particular the Ministry of National Economy and the managing bodies of the budget headings, on the basis of which it has drawn up its opinion on the bill for the 2016 budget. During our audit, we examined, first of all, whether the draft central budget bill complied with the legal requirements. It was found that the Ministry of National Economy published its prospectus on its website on 20 March 2015 for the planning of the 2016 budget, as set out in the Public Finance Act. The requirements of the planning prospectus were met during the budgetary planning work. On 30 April 2015, the Government published on its website the Convergence Programme, which in its content complied with the statutory requirement that the Government prepare and publish the macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts for the current and next three years. In accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, the relationship between the budget balance of the public finances sub-schemes in the payment perspective and its relationship with the balance reflecting the outcome approach according to the EU methodology was presented in the draft budget law. The difference between the two - according to the so-called ESA Bridge - is HUF 82.1 billion. As a result, the general government deficit of 2.2 per cent of GDP planned for 2016 corresponds to a deficit of 2 per cent of GDP calculated according to the EU methodology. As a consequence, the deficit planned for 2016 amounts to less than 3 per cent of the reference rate set out in the Union Regulation. This also meets the requirement of the General Government Act to limit the level of the general government deficit. The rate of 73.3 per cent of the government debt ratio planned for 31 December 2016 shows a decrease in 2015 compared to 74,3 per cent in accordance with the provisions of Article 36 (4) and (5) of the Fundamental Law. According to the bill, the growth rate of the public debt will be 3.3 percent, which exceeds 0.35% on the basis of the debt formula in force since 1 January 2015 of the Act on Economic Stability in Hungary. In order to put an end to the situation contrary to the law, the Government is T/4884 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2016. Bill No. 1 It initiates further conditions for the application of the debt formula. These conditions, both inflation and economic growth, exceed 3 per cent, are not expected to be met in 2016. Thus, following the entry into force of the legislative amendment under the Government's proposal, the debt formula limit will not prevent the adoption by Parliament of the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2016 in addition to the planned increase in public debt. Dear Parliament, One of the main issues for the legitimacy of the bill is whether the revenue and expenditure envisaged are in line with the expected development of economic conditions. Two questions arise in this respect. The first is how realistic the economic prognosis, as set out in the annex to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, can be considered. [[12.30]] The opinion of the State Audit Office does not answer this question, as since the establishment of the Fiscal Council, the credibility of the government macroeconomic projections has been assessed by the Council. In accordance with the relevant laws, the SAO supports the preparation of the opinion of the Board by preparing the SAO's analysis. This is also the case this year: our analysis is public, i.e. it can also be seen on the website of the Court of Auditors and the Fiscal Council. Honourable Members, I also recommend this analysis to you because it illustrates well that, contrary to the opinion of the European Commission, the State Audit Office, but also the Hungarian National Bank, there is considerable capacity to evaluate the draft budget law and its macroeconomic merits, i.e. to support the decision-making of the Fiscal Council. The second question is whether the budget's revenue and expenditure, depending on economic indicators, such as the appropriations for pension increases, were determined in line with the government's economic projections. In order to answer this question, we have put a great deal of weight into the audit on which the opinion is based, since the opinion on the feasibility of the revenue is specifically referred to in the Act on the State Audit Office. Of course, we have also analysed widely the merits of spending appropriations. The written opinion of the State Audit Office therefore does not cover the assessment of the macroeconomic path projected for 2016. However, in my expo, I would like to highlight some of the economic context of the draft budget bill. The first four months of data in 2014 and 2015 clearly show that the Hungarian economy has overcome the crisis and is on a growth path characterised by both a dynamic economic growth and an improvement in economic balance. This result was based on a number of domestic measures. As an example, I can highlight the restructuring of the tax system, the stabilisation of social security, the reduction of the burden on foreign exchange creditors, and the forinting of foreign currency loans related to the housing, as well as disciplined budget planning. At the same time, positive developments in external factors such as large use of EU aid or lower prices for oil and gas have contributed to the results. The macroeconomic environment of the 2016 budget will be specific because the one-off drivers of growth will cease to exist in 2016 and, for example, the cyclicality of EU development funding will result in a very significant reduction of the EU funds that can be used in that year. The government projections estimate a fall in investment and consumption in the Community due to a significant decrease in the use of EU funds. Therefore, caution is warranted. At the same time, I consider the approach which removes the impact of the reduction of EU funds from the scale of economic growth to be unduly pessimistic. The one-off effects are like an unstartable car, which is pushed: if the ignition goes off, the car is running by itself, and its own engine is driven from here. This means that next year's growth depends primarily on how much domestic resources can be mobilised. The budget bill contains such elements. Dear Parliament, The budget bill is made up of thousands of appropriations. Thus, in our monitoring, we strive for materiality, especially after we have to give an opinion with a short deadline, i.e. we primarily check the so-called decisive appropriations which, by the scale of their compliance, have a substantial impact on the ability to meet the deficit target. We also monitor the so-called new appropriations in particular. These are not yet supported by experience, and therefore, without thorough background calculations and impact assessments, their achievement is seriously uncertain. Finally, we aim to ensure that the amount of revenue and expenditure appropriations audited covers at least 80% of the total revenue and expenditure of the budget bill. This condition is also fulfilled this year. Our audit covered 89.7 percent of the total revenue and 83.6 percent of the total expenditure. The State Audit Office classified the appropriations entered in the audit according to the methodology published on its website by sub-heading or by address. On the basis of available documents and information, analytical methods have been assessed on the basis of the merits of revenue and expenditure appropriations and the feasibility of revenue trends. Based on our rating, 96.6 percent of the audited expenditure appropriations of the central budget and 89.55 percent of the audited revenue appropriations are well-founded. In addition to EU appropriations, the opinion of the chapter design work of the budget bill covered HUF 3489.4 billion in expenditure and HUF 894.9 billion in revenue estimates. Overall, the revenue and expenditure appropriations of the audited chapters are supported by calculations. In this case, 96.1 percent of the definitive and new expenditure appropriations and 85.6 percent of the revenue appropriations audited are well-founded. The appropriations for which the data provided to us did not provide full support or the experiential data did not support the planned amount were partially justified. The appropriations for which we have not been able to verify support until the on-the-spot verification has been completed have not been declared justified. Unsubstantiated appropriations represent only a very small proportion, 0.1 per cent, of the total expenditure audited. Apart from the classified cases, the expenditure and revenue planned for 2016 shall ensure the performance of the tasks and the implementation of the required basic requirements. Despite the previous submission of the draft budget law, its overall justification has improved compared to the 2015 budget bill. The increase in merits is mainly due to the stabilisation of the tax system. No new taxes will be introduced in 2016; the measures planned to whiteen the economy have also brought the planned revenues at the end of 2014 and in the first four months of the year 15 respectively. This is of great importance, since the Parliament had to amend the budget law during the year, among other things, because the revenue expected from the new taxes or tax discipline measures was significantly lower than the interim draft. The State Audit Office considered that 84,4 percent of tax revenues were justified, compared to the tax revenue appropriations of the 2015 Budget Bill, where this figure was still 51,3 per cent. The achievement of budget revenue will be improved by making budgetary processes more predictable for economic operators by adopting earlier amendments to the Budget Act and related tax laws. It also reduces the risk of tax collection by reducing the proportion of tax revenues to GDP in 2016 according to the Convergence Programme to 21,1 per cent, compared to 24,2 to 25,7 per cent in previous years. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, After giving a general picture of tax revenues, I will also address some specifics. For the 2016 tax revenue appropriations set out in the draft budget law, it is expected that lower or higher performances will be taken into account than in 2015 appropriations. [[12.40]] In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Tax revenue appropriations were designed on a realistic basis. The introduction of online cash registers and, from March 2015, the introduction of an electronic road traffic control system will serve to whiten the economy and their impact on tax revenues will continue for several years, so we do not see any risk of this increase in VAT revenues. Revenues are expected to increase further the planned extension of the use of the online cash register. In the case of personal income tax revenues, the bill adequately expects a reduction of the tax rate by 1 percentage point and that the tax relief rate for families with two children will increase from 10 thousand HUF per month in 2016. The amount of personal income tax revenue planned for 2016 can be achieved in the event of an increase of 5.2 per cent in wage weight projected in the justification of the budget bill. The further impact of wage arrangements introduced in 2016 on the side of budget expenditure and on career models that have already been introduced over several years will contribute to wage growth. Of the tax revenue appropriations, part of the appropriations for the simplified business tax, the specific tax of the taxpayers and the excise duty, which together account for 15.4 percent of the tax revenue. However, this does not mean that the receipt of this amount of tax revenue is risky. A partially justified rating means that only a small part of the tax revenue also includes a risk for a given tax revenue allocation. In fact, on this occasion, there was an example that a tax forecast, namely the allocation of excise duty, was only partially justified because it was designed to provide a lower revenue than would have been justified on the basis of the factors considered. In our view, it is likely that the excise duty will be exceeded. We only considered the tax revenue of the small company tax to be unsubstantiated. The sum of the risks that we estimate for each tax revenue is set out in Annex 1 to our opinion, taking into account current forecasts and macro-track parameters in the planning of revenue appropriations. Consequently, the SAO's view is that, if the government's macroeconomic forecasts are met, the planned amounts for tax revenues could be included in the budget. Here I would like to mention the so-called social contribution tax, which forms the revenue of social security funds, which has become one of the most stable revenue in the budget in recent years. As a result, it can play a greater role in the financing of the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. the social contribution tax revenue for the Health Insurance Fund will increase from 14.54 per cent in 2015 to 20.57 per cent. At the same time, the budget contribution to cover disability rehabilitation benefits will cease. Before 2011, social security was one of the most risky areas of public finances, leading to a significant overshoot of the planned deficit over several years. Due to the measures taken in the area of pension systems and pharmaceutical subsidies, this situation has changed radically. Our audit found that the audited revenue and expenditure appropriations of social security funds are almost entirely justified. This is where I draw attention to our report, which is about the impact and impact of the balance-repair measures on the coming years, which has already been the basis for a prognosis for the stabilisation of social security funds. On the revenue side, we see a significant risk for revenues from the exploitation of state assets. Of this, out of the government's revenue appropriations for 2016, we checked the appropriations planned from dividend revenue and other sales and exploitation revenue, the sum of which was HUF 146.1 billion. These revenue appropriations are not adequately documented methodology, calculation, impact assessment, and are therefore partially justified and pose a risk of underachievement. We therefore consider it important that the future sale and exploitation of the assets to be sold should be prepared by the relevant government bodies in such a way that the planned revenue actually flows into the budget. Dear Parliament, After the proceeds, let's move on to spending. The direct expenditure of the 2016 central budget was mainly developed with calculations, prognosis and appropriate planning methodology. Ninety-five per cent of the appropriations audited out of the direct expenditure appropriations of the central budget have been considered to be sound, thus being justified in their entirety. On the expenditure side, the main risk - and we are talking about it year after year - is that the combined amount of expenditure appropriations so-called 'top-up', i.e. which can be exceeded during the year, amounts to 53,3% of the total expenditure. In particular, the amount of appropriations that may be exceeded without specific regulation amounts to 38,1 per cent of the total expenditure. For this reason, the calculations and prognosiss underlying the planning of these appropriations have been examined in particular in the course of the planning opinion. In addition to the above, the audit assessed the planning of expenditure on the basis of performance data for previous years and monitoring data for 2015. I have to point out here that there is, of course, a risk, but it has not been realised in previous years, because the government has directly managed these top-up spending amounts, but this risk exists in terms of planning as long as it uses this practice, this method of treatment. There are no automatic balancing mechanisms on the expenditure side, but this will also be another broader issue on my part. It is a risk that the planned expenditure of the medical and preventive care institutions and the Klebelsberg Institution Support Centre will only ensure the smooth performance of the tasks when appropriate structural measures are taken. However, these measures have not yet been completed. In our view, there should not be any tension points in the budget of the country that has gone beyond the financial crisis, which also envisages significant improvements, leading to the persistent, recurrent and illegal failure of individual budgetary institutions to meet the recognised claims of their suppliers by the deadline. In order to carry out the tasks of local authorities, the 2016 central budget bill together provides funding of HUF 661.7 billion, which exceeds the initial appropriations of the previous year by 1.9 percent and HUF 12.5 billion. The total amount of the audited appropriations is HUF 630.7 billion, of which 99.7 percent is well-founded. The specific feature of budgetary planning for 2016 is the need to provide at the same time cover for the completion of ongoing programmes financed by EU funds in the 2007-2013 budget cycle of the European Union and for co-financing of developments in the 2014-2020 budget cycle. In order to make full use of EU funds, the chapters planned the share of EU and domestic resources that could be used for the 2014-2020 budget cycle for 2016 taking into account the cyclicality of most EU Member States within the EU programme period. [[12.50]] Not only Hungary, but the experience of all cohesion countries, is that in the first three years of the cycle performance does not reach 10 percent of the total available framework, from the fourth year the performance will be enhanced significantly, which is significant even in the two years following the cycle, as we can now see in 2015 the positive drawing data of the impact of the 2007-2013 programme. During the preparation of the bill, the expenditure and revenue appropriations for 2016 were also planned to complete the programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period. About a quarter of the EU spending appropriations planned in the draft budget bill, amounting to HUF 1432 billion, are covered by the 2007-2013 cycle, and nearly 100% of it can and must be financed only from domestic budgetary resources. Therefore, in view of the budgetary risk for 2016, it is of great importance that the 2015 performance will be as planned. A number of government decisions were adopted to implement the implementation of the National Strategic Reference Framework in 2015 and a rigorous monitoring system is in place in 2014 to monitor compliance with the annual commitment plan of the National Strategic Reference Framework. In view of this, the expenditure appropriations for 2016 needed to complete the programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period were considered to be sound. The implementation of appropriations under the national strategic reference framework poses a risk to the consequences of the European Commission's suspensions not yet known at the time of planning, as well as to future sanctions due to the possible adverse outcome of audits. Dear Parliament, The development of public debt is of particular importance for the admissibility of the bill. According to the trends presented in the justification of the draft budget law, by the end of 2016, the central budget debt reaches HUF 25 253 billion, which exceeds the debt forecasted by the end of 2015. The foreign exchange debt will decrease from HUF 7987 bn in 2015 to HUF 6684 bn in 2016 taking into account the 2016 issues and maturity. This is 26,5 per cent of the gross debt planned for the end of 2016 of the central budget. This ratio corresponds, on the one hand, to the maximum rate of 45% of the sovereign debt management strategy on the foreign exchange share ratio, on the other hand, and this, more importantly, significantly reduces the risk of an increase in government debt resulting from a possible depreciation of the forint, i.e. the vulnerability of the country's financing. In 2016, the deficit financing and debt-renewing debt will increase by more than HUF 2000 billion and will therefore be refinanced. Compared to the expected stock at the end of 2015 forint debt, the planned stock at the end of 2016 will increase to HUF 17 774 billion, corresponding to an increase of 13.4 per cent. The planned government debt for 31 December 2016 consists of a debt of HUF 25 528 billion in the central government subsystem, a debt of HUF 205 billion in the municipal subsystem and a debt of HUF 166 billion in other entities classified in the government sector. In determining the consolidated government debt, the items to be consolidated were taken into account for HUF 94.6 billion. Debt of the central and local government sub-scheme of general government and other entities classified in the government sector, transactions generating debt, broken down as required by law, were available for the basis of planning. The consolidation was fully implemented and the data needed to calculate the sovereign debt ratio were therefore available under the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, Based on the foundation of the vast majority of revenue and expenditure appropriations audited by the State Audit Office and the further development of the maintenance system, which represents a new element in addition to the 100 plus 100 billion forints mentioned above, i.e. the adjustment of the so-called chapter stability reserve of HUF 35 billion, I can say that the overall budget bill can be considered as sound and that the shortcomings identified by us can be replaced by the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches and in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. István Józsa applauds for a long time.]]
u2015-05-27-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to President Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe, who will present the opinion of the Fiscal Council. I would also ask my fellow Members to listen to Mr President together. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2015-05-27-60	Dear Parliament, Mr President, On the basis of the mandate given in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Fiscal Council, as a body supporting the activities of the Parliament, examines the merits of the draft law on the central budget. This bill will be returned to the Council before the final vote, in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, and we must guard against compliance with the sovereign debt rule. The Fundamental Law states that, as long as the public debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may only adopt a law on a central budget containing a reduction in the ratio of the public debt to the total domestic total product. The Council will draw up its opinion on the fulfilment of this in its preliminary contribution to the final vote, while, of course, it has already addressed this in the context of the draft legislative document. Dear House, It is therefore my duty today to give oral reasons for the Council's opinion on the draft budget proposal and to address the government's response to it. I would like to ask you to understand that I am also expressing some of the brief ideas that are closely linked to the opinion on the application and amendment of the sovereign debt formula. The Board built its opinion on the aspects and findings specifically formulated for the Council by the State Court of Auditors and the Hungarian National Bank, while taking into account the forecasts of the various analytical institutes, as well as the forecasts of independent experts and relevant international organisations - 11 in total. The Council established its opinion on the draft law for the Government at its meeting on 8 May 2015 and forwarded it to the national Ministry of National Economy and made it public. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Now, when, on the basis of the mandate of the Council, at the beginning of the general debate, I share the essence of the opinion with the House, focusing on the fulfilment of the deficit target and the public debt rule, above all on the basis of the experience of the relatively short period of the year, I would like to mention some ideas about the expected implementation of this year's budget as the basis for next year's planning. In the first quarter of 2015, international and domestic analysts continuously improved the growth expectations for 2015, and the government raised its previous 2.5 percent prognosis above 3 percent. According to the Council, the growth in the economy started in 2013 and increased by 3.6 percent in 2014, well above the EU average in 2015, albeit slightly reduced, could continue. The Council considered the external conditions for sustainable growth to be fundamentally favourable, taking into account the fact that although oil prices are volatile but low, the financial market has liquidity in abundance, economic and confidence indices are improving, the economic performance of the Union is moderately increased, inflation is expected to remain low and the European Central Bank's asset purchase programme is expected to be effective. [[13.00]] The Council also considered the internal conditions to be appropriate. While the economy was driven by exports and investments as a whole in 2014, consumption became the driving force for the last quarter of the year. The increase in household consumption in 2015 could be further strengthened by the decreasing debt burden through bank settlement, the one-off credit and the loss of exchange rate exposure as a result of the forinting of foreign currency loans, and the increase in wages over the period of the year. Labour market developments are also improving, employment is now persistently over 4 million people, growth is largely in the competitive sphere. Government measures have led to an increase in activity rate of 59 per cent and unemployment rate has fallen to 7.8 per cent. Given the good performance of the economy so far, and otherwise the return of the central measures to whiten the economy, and assuming that there is no substantial break in performance over the remainder of the year, tax and contribution revenues are expected to be higher than planned this year. As a result of the government's structural restructuring efforts, expenditure, in particular social and social benefits, will grow slightly below GDP, taking into account the support of wider public work. Interest expenditure may be reduced by improving the country's risk assessment. Based on their combined analysis, the Fiscal Council considered that the deficit target of 2.4 percent in 2015 could be met. On the basis of the 2016 budget bill, allow me to deal with the credibility of the draft slightly in detail. Under the Stability Act, the Council may comment on the draft or, if it has a fundamental objection to its authenticity or enforceability, indicate its disagreement with the draft. In our view, the draft legislation did not contain any objectionable provisions or trends which would have justified the indication of a general disagreement of the Council with regard to the document submitted to the opinion. However, the Council also stated in its decision that the draft did not comply with the requirement of the debt formula set out in the Stability Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2015 and should first have been taken into account more precisely than the draft budget bill for 2016. The debt formula, unlike the start of the relevant so-called one-story regulation of the Fundamental Law and the European Union, does not require a reduction in the ratio of government debt expressed in GDP, but regulates the extent of its quantitative change. On the basis of the debt formula, inflation planned for 2016, at 1.6 percent, and the economic growth rate, at 2.5 percent, could increase by only 0.35%, taking into account the difference in half of the debt. By contrast, the nominal increase in the draft is 3.3 per cent. The difference is over 700 billion forints. In other words, this should reduce spending and increase revenue. This would have negative consequences for public finances and thus for economic growth. On this basis, we have already proposed a thorough review of the debt formula, and we now considered it necessary to delete or amend it by stressing its counter-effect with the aim of possible application. The government's proposal to change the formula is before you. It is not my duty to touch on the content of the proposal to amend the formula in this area, but please allow me a more general idea here. In the event of a crisis, the public sector absorbs most of the shock and at the rising stage reduces the emergence of new stability risks to the crisis. Today's processes show that we have reached a stage of recovery from the crisis that has emerged decades ago, like most of Europe, in which there is no doubt that budget and procedural rules have a role to play, together with the control of their compliance. The rules are designed to deal with crises, but they must also promote recovery, or at least not prevent it. It is therefore appropriate that flexibility, adaptation to changing conditions be applied to the rules and their compliance and, if necessary, the necessary adaptation should be made without delay. In addition, in the light of the draft budget bill, the Council had to focus attention on one more legislative issue. In its opinion, it also referred to the failure to comply with the paragraph of the Stability Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, according to which the entity's payment obligation on the basis of its results should be determined in a uniform manner, irrespective of the amount of the tax base. The Fiscal Council also considered it necessary to establish consistency between the two laws. Dear Parliament, Turning to the main figures of the budget, I note that there are only a few differences, mainly in revenue, between the draft opinion of the Council and the bill before you. On this basis, the majority of the Council's findings on the draft are justified and correct in view of the bill. The Council examined the macroeconomic path on which the draft budget proposal for 2016 was based, taking into account the convergence programme for 2015-2018 and the available and competent technical analyses and projections. As a result, we have come to the conclusion that the main macroeconomic assumptions are realistic. Economic growth is 2.5 percent lower than expected in 2015 based on conservative forecasts, as well as a 3.6 percent increase in household consumption. The expected slowdown in growth is mainly due to a reduction in EU development aid and temporary investment and a reduction in Community consumption. Its impact can be offset by the expansion of the growth credit programme in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and the infrastructure development financed by domestic public finances. The Council had to note that the economic growth envisaged also requires a favourable development of external conditions: further strengthening of the European Union's economy, the deepening of geopolitical conflicts, the financial market impact of the Greek debt crisis and the continuation of money market resources and the stabilisation of oil prices at relatively low levels. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Council concluded that the deficit target of 2% of public finances calculated according to the European Union methodology in 2016 was in line with the draft budget bill, as set out in the 2015-2018 convergence programme of Hungary, as well as the economic processes presented in the draft, and the revenue and expenditure appropriations based on it. [[13.10]] The target set is 1 percentage point lower than the criteria set by the General Government Law and by Maastricht. This means that the deficit requirement can be met even if GDP or deficit is less favourable than planned. The Council appreciates that, as the process continues, under the Convergence Programme, the reduction of the deficit to 1.6 per cent of GDP will be achieved by 2018, and that a reserve will be created for the coming years. The low deficit helps to meet the reduction requirement of the sovereign debt ratio laid down in the Fundamental Law. The Council considered that the tax and contribution revenues of the 2016 budget reflect the relative stability of the tax system and were planned on a realistic basis. The latter is underpinned by economic growth, otherwise the expected growth in population consumption. In addition, government measures to increase employment and consumption, whiten the economy, improve the efficiency of tax controls will continue to have a positive impact in 2016. They provide an opportunity to reduce tax rates, such as personal income tax, VAT, levies and special tax on financial institutions. Between revenues, the Fiscal Council considered it necessary to raise awareness, as did the State Audit Office of the State, about the risks surrounding the allocation of other sales and exploitation revenues. Although much less than this year, due to performance uncertainty, careful preparation of exploitation and careful planning and implementation of related investments remains justified. It is necessary to agree with the intention that the government steps to use it will be accompanied by brakes. In some incomes, the Council saw negative risks in the face of an increase in gross wages and earnings in the personal income tax forecast, while in the corporate income tax forecast, because of the uncertainty in the data relating to the specified returns and foreign exchange settlements. It also stated that the tax and contribution revenue appropriations could be met depending on the effectiveness of the economic performance and the steps taken to reduce tax avoidance, and that the risk associated with them could be covered by the Country Protection Fund. The Council considered the planning of expenditure to be in line with the need to improve the balance of public finances. The expansion of social aid remains below economic growth, partly offset by the expansion of government expenditure on public work. We believe that spending is cost-effective, that interest expenditure can be further reduced as a result of lower returns, and that less co-financing will be needed in parallel with smaller EU funds. We believe that there is caution in extending the central public service career model, as, in addition to continuing to increase the wages of teachers and the staff of armed and police agencies, only government officials are newly included in the beneficiaries' list, and they are also included in the second half of 2016. The Council considered it appropriate, essentially due to the economic context in Europe and the economic and political crisis areas in Europe, that the draft budget bill for 2016 included a significantly larger appropriation of HUF 70 billion of the National Defence Fund compared to the previous year. But he also considered it possible to raise it further. In addition, it saw a broader security of achieving the balance objectives by providing around 35 billion in central chapters and allocated state funds with a so-called stability reserve. Depending on the state of public finances, the use of this reserve can only be opened in October, while the KT has proposed, not for the first time, to assess the adequacy of the reserves, to demonstrate what risks they are used to manage. Dear Parliament, According to the Stability Act in the draft budget bill for 2016, i.e. the government debt ratio is reduced from 74,3 per cent to 73,3 per cent by the end of 2016. Thus, the requirement of the Fundamental Law is met. Based on the assumed exchange rates under the Convergence Programme, a 1 percent reduction in the Maastricht debt ratio is also expected. The Fiscal Council sees a firm commitment in the Convergence Programme to lower the government debt ratio to below 70 per cent by 2018. In the opinion of the Council, therefore, the overall objective of both the general government deficit and the reduction of government debt in the 2016 budget bill and the macroeconomic path providing the fund can be achieved. Dear Parliament, Again, the opinion of the Council received a detailed government response, which can be learned by everyone at the end of the main volume of the bill, so I will return only briefly. First of all, we were reassured to note in the reply that the government will initiate the amendment of the Stability Act on the debt formula in order to achieve a fiscal policy that supports economic growth more strongly while reducing public debt. This will ensure consistency, which the Council considers necessary, even before the final vote on the draft budget bill. Thus, the Fiscal Council hopes that, before the final vote, it can take a decision in the light of the amended rules when approving the budget vote. However, there was no reference in the answer to the alignment with the provision in the Stability Act on the uniform rate of corporation tax. However, this issue will later be dealt with legally by the underlying bill, pushing the entry into force until 2020. Although the government still failed to explain the risks it was expected to face, the National Defence Fund increased its budget by 30 billion to 100 billion. The reply contains a partial justification for the implementation of some revenue considered risky by the Budgetary Council. In doing so, the revenue from the sale of property and the allocation of each type of tax were increased among the items concerned. In the latter, the re-evaluation of the impact of the whitening of the economy prior to the submission of the bill provided the opportunity to increase the VAT allocation through the allocation of personal income tax, social contribution tax and contributions and the extension of the online cash register connection. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Please allow me a few thank-you closing sentences. I would like to thank the Minister of National Economy and his colleagues for their far-reaching support for our work, and they also allowed the Council to prepare its opinion by carrying out meaningful analyses, in the context of preparatory work carried out at an unusual time and in the context of burdensome planning conditions. [[13.20]] I also thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank and the Secretariat of the Fiscal Council, invited analytical institutes and the staff of individual economic institutions for supporting the broad technical basis of the Council's opinion through independent, alternative macroeconomic model calculations and sensitivity studies. Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your attention, I would like to finally wish you a good job, a budget for the country's development, a bill that is in line with this, and the amendments and the related steps are all in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-27-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Hungary2016. The Vice-Presidents of Parliament are expected to take part in the debate, i.e. to speak, during the negotiation of the bill on its 2008 central budget. As the House Rules provide that they can only carry out their duties in relation to the management of the sitting in such a case if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore respectfully initiate the Parliament to give this contribution to Mr Sándor Lezsák, István Jakab, István Hiller, Vice-President Tamás Sneider and to myself. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. We now have the keynote speeches in a 30-30-minute time frame. During these two-minute speeches are not possible in accordance with house rules. First, I give the floor to Mr Antal Rogán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will speak here on the stand. I'll wait for Mr. Group Leader to wake up. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-05-27-62	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the message of the 2016 budget can be summarised very simply: more jobs, less taxes. In 2016, we will spend more on employment in the framework of Hungary's budget, with continued growth, the number of jobs will continue to increase and unemployment will continue to decline. In 2016, everyone in Hungary will pay less taxes. Every Hungarian family, every Hungarian working person can take a step forward because the rate of tax he pays is reduced. More than 4 million people work in Hungary, all of them will pay less taxes on their income, and let us not forget that 4 million people together still support quite a lot of people and their children, so we can say that the vast majority of Hungary's citizens can take a step forward in 2016 thanks to the new budget and related tax laws. In order to assess how we have managed to reach the 2016 budget period, I propose to my fellow Members that we look back for a moment. Let us not forget that we are going through a five-year economic policy process where the government that took office in 2010 had to deal with an acute economic and budgetary crisis and, moreover, bankruptcy. In 2010, the budget adopted by the Hungarian Parliament at the time, first of all, did not reflect the real situation, since by the end of the year it was clear that the budget deficit would have been much higher without an intervention. Hungary was then held on a ventilator, since Hungary would not have been able to pay wages in the public sector without the support of the IMF and the European Union, or at least would have been in serious problems. For the period of 2010, if we look back, honourable Members, we can conclude that, for the first time in five years since then, a crisis management has taken place. In 2010 and 11 Hungary's Government had to pull the country and the budget out of bankruptcy with the help of a crisis management, and consolidation took place in 2010-11. The period 2012 is primarily economic stabilisation and the period 2013-14 is believed to be the period of the start of the growth turn, which we now felt in 2015 and which seems to be quite stable, so that economic growth in the context of macroeconomic processes can also be calculated for 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, This is where it is worth comparing government performances, because I think that it is always an obligation, and in some sense an important task, for the parties in the Parliament to hold the debate on the budget. If we look back now at the period 2002-2010 and the period 2010-2015, let me make a comparison with some simple figures, honourable Members. Let us start by saying that in 2002, when the then socialist-free Democratic government took over the government bar, the gross government debt in Hungary was 55.9 percent in proportion to GDP. In 2010, when the helm was handed over, this was 81 percent in proportion to GDP. If we want to translate this into HUF, ladies and gentlemen, the gross government debt in 2002 was HUF 9574 billion, and in 2010 the gross government debt was HUF 21 799 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these figures clearly indicate that between 2002 and 2010 there has been an immensely serious debt to the country. And if we add to all of this how the country's economic performance has been linked to this, then maybe it's just worth looking at, now even for a shorter period of time from this point of view, it's worth looking at the growth data. We can see that, in particular, in the period 2006-2010, Hungary's economic performance is virtually below the EU average at all times. Economic consolidation will begin in 2010, and from 2012, when we reach the end of stabilising the economic situation, we can say that the performance of the Hungarian economy in 2013 and 2014 is now stable, well above the economic performance of the European Union, which is a condition for catching up in one country every time. We cannot join the European Union's standard of living or the European Union's economic performance if Hungary's economic performance and growth potential are no greater than the growth performance of the average of the European Union's countries. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps also some macroeconomic data are worth looking at, how the number of jobs in Hungary changed from 2002 to 2010, how the number of unemployed people changed. The number of unemployed people, if we look at it, was 238 800 unemployed in Hungary in 2002, with an unemployment rate of 5.8 percent. That's how socialist governments took over the country. In 2010, when the country was handed over, the number of unemployed was 474 800, and the unemployment rate was 11.2 percent, i.e. unemployment almost doubled from 2002 to 2010. Compared to this, if we look at the economic results of the last five years, ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to reduce the number of unemployed from 474 800 in 2010 to 343,000 in 2014, and the unemployment rate has been reduced from 11.2 per cent to 7.7 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this in itself shows very well that the economic policy that has taken place in the last five years has been significantly more successful in terms of Hungary's economic performance and catching up and reducing unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is also worth looking back at the fact that, in 2010, when we decided on the practice of crisis management here in this House, we did not make the decision by accident that a crisis management in Hungary cannot be imagined, which, like the practices of the socialists, was dictated by the IMF, but perhaps even overdone by the IMF, will be the drawbacks of the Hungarian families on each occasion, and they will be the ones who suffer the damage on each occasion. [[13.30]] Between 2008 and 2010 we saw this in the context of the crisis attempts at the time, which only exacerbated the crisis. Between 2008 and 2010, let us recall that this Parliament made decisions on one side, i.e. the Socialist-Free Democratic Government within it, which radically reduced the wages of Hungarian families and Hungarian people in Hungary: Between 2008 and 2010, decisions were made that resulted in a monthly wage being taken in Hungary from each family working in the public sector and from each employee, and decisions were taken between 2008 and 2010 that eventually took a month's pension from pensioners. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, after 2010, a tax reduction policy was launched and we said that after 2010 the burden of crisis management would have to be borne by those who were, by the way, the main beneficiaries of the 2002-2010 period. Accordingly, consolidation was carried out by bringing together consolidation and stabilisation in order to gradually reduce the tax burden on labour, to reduce the tax burden on small businesses and families and, instead, to ensure a fair public burden on consumption and the taxation of banks and multinational companies. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that 2010 was the time when we made the decision that in the case of small businesses in Hungary, small businesses with a turnover of HUF 500 million, the corporate tax burden was significantly reduced and we brought it down to nearly half, and we introduced the 10 per cent corporate tax rate. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in 2010, of course, partly under international pressure, Parliament has decided that we intend to transform this into a single-key tax system, i.e. to reduce the tax burden on large companies. Now the Fidesz parliamentary group has asked the government - and I am pleased that the government has made this decision together with the budget submitted and the related laws - that we do not consider it justified to reduce the tax burden on large companies and, under any circumstances, we do not agree to increase the tax burden on small companies, so we do not consider the reduction of the two tax rates to be timely. The tax burden for small businesses should remain the 10 per cent key, the low tax burden should remain with them, and we think that there is no need to adjust the tax burden for large companies, and that they should continue to bear a greater share of the public burdens facing the country in the sense of fair public burden. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention here - because I think this is an important thing - that in 2010 we made a very important decision regarding the tax system in Hungary in respect of the year 2011, and we made a decision that significantly reduced the personal income tax burden: instead of the highest tax rate of 32 per cent, which was introduced by the Socialists, we finally developed a single-key tax system in Hungary with a 16 per cent key, and we gradually abolished the particular achievement of Gordon Bajnai and introduced by the socialists, as a result of which people paid taxes even after they had not received it. Because let's not forget, here in this House, every time it is worth noting that the institution called semi-superbrutto was invented by the Bajnai government, the socialist representatives voted together with the free democrats, and the point of this was that private people still paid personal income tax, which could be done by companies, so their employer paid. I think, fellow Members, this clearly meant that, for the first time in Hungary, even after taxes that had not been earned or received, one had to pay. The tax burden has been significantly reduced, while we have also led the semi-superbrutto institution, and we have also been able to introduce family tax incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, At the time, there was a lot of debate between the socialists in the benches, so that the lowest earners might get worse. I think, after five years, we can look back on what this looks like for really the lowest earners. I have in my hand the comparison that shows how the real value of the net minimum wage in Hungary changed between 2002 and 2010: the real value of the net minimum wage increased by 1 percent between 2002 and 2010 at the time of your governance; the net minimum wage increases from 2010 to 2016 - if the new budget is still the same minimum wage - but it shows a 5.5 percent increase. I think that this is quite clear about the question, honourable Members, which is ultimately the wage and tax system that is more favourable to all Hungarian families and, by the way, to all Hungarian workers. I also ask those who follow this parliamentary debate not to sit down for those who promise more money in the budget in Hungary in such a way that they want to impose substantially more taxes on everyone at the same time, because it is important to see that the often irresponsible promises made by opposition parties - of which the socialists, of course, did not implement anything at the time of their governance - are usually due to the need to increase the tax burden. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have a philosophy that is based on the philosophy that the only way to achieve a successful economy in Hungary is to make Hungary a successful country if the state follows the principle of leaving as much of the money that people earn with them as possible. Therefore, we are constantly, every year, always in favour of reducing taxes on work, especially personal income tax, because we think that the money that people are looking for should remain with them. We believe that the whole point of a fair tax system is to tax consumption and, by the way, to leave as much of the money that is earned to the people as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, all budgets, the tax system, must also show a sense of solidarity and social responsibility. We believe that the tax system expresses this in the form of family tax relief. And here it is worth mentioning, ladies and gentlemen, what Minister Varga also mentioned in his expozee is that, in the period from 2011 to the end of 2016, the new tax system, together with family tax incentives, leaves a surplus income of HUF 3600 billion for families, and of which, in the form of family tax relief, we are helping to raise and educate children living in families in Hungary by HUF 1300 billion between 2011 and 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this may, in particular, change significantly in the coming year. Let us recall the various phases of this. In 2010, the Parliament decided again to bring back the tax relief for children. I would also like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a family tax reduction in Hungary, a tax allowance for children: in 2002, when the socialists took over the government, it was only abolished in 2003. So much for the fact that when they promise something, what kind of decisions will happen. Between 2003 and 2010, tax incentives for children were practically introduced in Hungary. In 2010 we brought it back in 2011 and in 2013 the Parliament decided that, from 2014 onwards, low incomes could use not only the taxes they paid, but also the other public burdens they paid, which left a significant surplus income for the families with the lowest income, raising children. This amount exceeded 55 billion forints. These results will not only be preserved by the 2016 budget, my fellow Members, but will also move on: in 2016, the tax relief for children will begin to increase for families with two children. Of course, this has a family policy goal at the same time, and I think that we are supporting the most important number of Hungarian families. 350 thousand are in two families with children in Hungary today. This means that, as the tax relief for two children increases, 1 million 400 thousand parents and children will have additional income in the life of the 2016 budget and the tax laws to be adopted at that time. But we can translate this, ladies and gentlemen, very simply for families as well. Let's see. In the case of a earner with two families who have children, where the wage corresponds to the minimum wage, there will be 72 600 HUF more from 2015 to 2016. So for a monthly income, if a minimum wage earner raises two children, it can amount to a surplus of 72 600 HUF. Where the average wage is this one earner for Hungarian families - this is also a significant number of Hungarian families - it reaches HUF 88 200. [[13.40]] If there are two earners in the family with two children, the annual savings are already around 85 thousand forints for minimum wage earners, in two families with two children for two earners, if the earners are otherwise on average, this could reach 116 thousand forints. Ladies and gentlemen, The increase in tax relief for two children is a significant step forward in the lives of 1 million 400 000 parents and children. Overall, we can say that, thanks to the 2016 budget, precisely because there is no tax increase, only tax reduction, and we leave the surplus income generated by economic growth there, and the income generated by the budget through debt reduction, reduction of interest expenditure for people, everyone can really move forward in Hungary thanks to the 2016 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that, along with the accompanying laws, there is also a budgetary law before you that everyone here in Parliament can boldly support. I would also like to ask the opposition groups to do this, and I would also like to ask them that, if they present their other proposals relating to this, they should also talk about what, fellow Members, they should also talk about what kind of tax system they would otherwise associate with, whose taxes they would increase. Because our philosophy is absolutely clear: we want to leave significantly more money than people, and every year we think that the extra income should be left in the form of tax reductions. On the other hand, there is another philosophy that says that the budget should take the money and redistribute it, just, fellow Members, we think that if the budget redistributes the money, it may be that a few hundred thousand people in the public employment community are better off in Hungary, but when the budget opts for tax cuts, less tax means extra income for all earners, more than 4 million Hungarians and children dependent on it. Therefore, our philosophy is that it is possible to achieve a strong and stable economy, more jobs in Hungary if, by the way, people have to pay less taxes every year. Ladies and gentlemen, Here it is worth noting that, in addition to all this, we are reducing taxes and leaving more money than people, this budget, together with the budgets of the previous year, represents a significant step forward in several areas and sectors where, by the way, there are people employed or paid by the budget. Let us not forget that we have already introduced the teacher's career programme, which meant nearly 30 percent wage increase for teachers when it was introduced, and since then this has included a wage increase of around 5 percent each year, including from 2015 to 2016. In 2015 we introduced and introduced a career programme with armed forces from 1 July, i.e. primarily in law enforcement and defence, which again results in a 30 percent wage increase and a further 5 percent wage increase from 2015 to 2016. These wage increases are also included in the 2016 budget. So there are hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary who are employed by the budget and whose wages have increased and will even increase from 2015 to 2016 according to the new budget. There will also be a change in some of the people working in the social sphere, and my fellow Members, of course, the government is working - and this is supported by the faction - on the civil servants' career programme. However, I think that it is only a step-by-step approach to these areas and that credibility is certainly demonstrated by the fact that, contrary to previous irresponsible decisions, which, for example, have to be withdrawn by socialist governments without exception, we are able to keep career plans and wage increases stable in areas that have already begun within the limits of the budget. I think this shows, in any case, that Hungary can progress step by step every year by step with responsible farming, maintaining macroeconomic stability and continuing growth. The guarantee of this is the 2016 budget, and I can, of course, assure the Government that the largest party in Parliament, the Fidesz parliamentary group, will, of course, support this budget and its adoption with its votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has indicated that two speakers will present their group's position within the 30-minute time frame available to them. First, I give the floor to Mr József Tobias, who will give his speech from here on the platform. We'll wait for Mr. Group Leader to wake up. [[Take a few seconds.]] He's here. Thank you very much. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2015-05-27-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to Mr. Antal Rogán, I couldn't decide whether my calendar had stopped or if there was a new timing. It's 2015, and you've been ruling for five years, and here in May, any miracle, we should be talking about the 2016 budget. What you have presented to us - all our references, despite all our requests, without social dialogue and coordination - is a hit-and-run budget in 2016. However, if you would have been curious, my fellow Members, on the opinion of the electorate, you might have been able to put less inhumane, answer to the problems of reality and put the tax on the table of the House, but you are not aware of the problems of the Hungarians, nor of the good practices of the world, of this government assassination disguised as a budget, and of the numbers that plunder society and preserve poverty. Just a few examples. The other day, we learned from research that the vast majority of Hungarian voters are more interested in emigration than immigration. This is deeply understandable, as tens of thousands of families are torn apart by mass migration from existential coercion or intolerable social climate. You are not looking for a solution to this, you are not trying to create a more livable country for growth for all, but you are throwing a billion dollars into a campaign of hatred disguised as a consultation to get the word off our existing problems, even though this is a national issue affecting our young people and our pensioners alike. A decent retirement pension is a basic requirement. Many of today's pensions are inadequately few, and the situation can only deteriorate if the income-producing layer escapes Hungary, instead of finding its prosperity and chances at home. Let me continue the line. Before voting in favour of the budget for looting and inequality, it would also have been good to pay attention to the fact that the experts of the Academy in Hungary, based on their research, have determined that there are 30 to 50 thousand starving children in Hungary today. These children go to school hungry or to sleep every day. In addition, the number of minors who are temporarily unable to obtain enough food, i.e. crisis hungry, is estimated to be nearly 200,000, said Csilla Marozsán, one of the authors of the study. What do you do in this situation? They spend 600 million forints on a cook's tournament with public money. Well, I wish you good appetites. But let's keep going. We have been saying for years that there is nothing more unfair than a single-key tax system. The world's leading economists - you know exactly - think alike. Of course, you will find deaf ears, although it might not be useless that if you no longer believe domestic professionals, Hungarian opposition politicians, then at least in the international space you would understand Emmanuel Saez, who said specifically about Hungary: Hungary would need the opposite of what you are doing with your tax system: according to historical experience, the single-key tax results in much greater inequality and much greater concentration of wealth. If we look at the budget for research and development, catching-up education, face toastingly low resources, then it will be revealed that you do not really understand or do not want to understand XXI. Company. Saez, quoted earlier, continues in his interview with the Index the other day: technological progress will increase and technological progress will require an increasingly skilled workforce. The only way to achieve sustainable growth is if the country emits more and more skilled people. Education is also one of the pillars of the welfare state through which the government invests in the future. If the government starts to withdraw from higher education and the cost of completing higher education increases, fewer people will have degrees and inequality will also increase. [[13.50]] Graduates everywhere in the world earn more than others, and people who earn more will pay more. The cost-benefit ratio of resources put into education will be very positive in the long term. This is solidarity, a thought born in the spirit of reason, the opposite of which is drawn from your budget. The same harmful thinking, which casts away the good practices of the world, also manifests itself with the artificially low minimum wage, when they know precisely that it is impossible to make a living. If they were to follow the proposals of economists, they would also know that many of the world's leading economists, Nobel laureates, have made a clear belief in raising the minimum wage. Because everyone wins if the curve of ascension is guaranteed, the foundation of growth is guaranteed. I ask you not to talk about employers in this debate, because no one has done as much damage to Hungarian capital as you have done to the rule of law, the predictable economic environment. Fidesz's economic policy has also reduced the efficiency of market players, weakened its vitality, impaired its chances of development. Dear House, There's no record in the budget of solving the crisis that the government has left itself a part of the country. You must know that four Hungarian regions have been included in the list of twenty of the poorest regions of the European Union: North Hungary, North Great Plain, South Transdanubia, South Great Plain. This is a real crisis in Hungary, and it is not matters created by the government, such as tasteless texts about refugees or even the death penalty. Substantial issues should therefore also be addressed in the context of the negotiation of the budget. The government refuses and does not want to give us a prescription, although dealing with this issue in next year's budget would be a fundamental responsibility for all of us. The well-being, security and existential chances of Hungarian society depend on how we will deal with these issues. Urban development, strong social reform, modern education and social solidarity are the solutions. You have taken all these, not only from your dictionaries, but also from your practice. Powerful interests and the interests of growth are intended to be used for their own sake. The result of squandered years, lack of government compassion and incompetence. They know exactly, because the data of the KSH paint the saddest picture of Hungary today. While the West Transdanubian region has 63 years of disease-free people living in the North Great Plain for only 54 and a half years. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there is no campaign of hatred that conceals this tragedy. However, we have before us the early budget, in which the government does not attempt to address the problems outlined above. The budget behind us has followed the same trend and practice over the past four years. Whatever you call it, you have withdrawn funds from the fields of education, health care, local government and social care. Meanwhile, they spent a hundred billion dollars on stadiums in recent years, [[György Balla: That's not true! Márta Demeter: Yes, you can. György Balla: The opposite is true! Márta Demeter: It's not true!]] As planned next year, various taxes have been applied, because you wanted to be the governments of the tax reduction. Let me just give you a few. Tax on solar cells, soap taxes [[György Balla laughs. Márta Demeter: Funny, Congressman?]] , and the price of food has been increased by the absurd increase in the food chain inspection fee. Obviously, this year's draft budget does not promise much good in Hungary either. To see so much of it today, it's a budget for increasing inequalities. Therefore, perhaps the Prime Minister thinks that the most embarrassing, harmful cases for the whole country should be dealt with first. In so many ways, they may be right that the adoption of this budget will be unsustainable. Surely, as they have tried to adopt a two-year budget in previous government cycles, it was also due to the need to adjust and make unpredictable both the social and economic environment during the year, and thus to this fiscal law in 2016. I mentioned at the outset that it would have been good to discuss this proposal with stakeholders, social partners, interest representatives, even in order not only to be politically confronted by opposition parties, what budget they wish to adopt, at least they could have had a chance in principle to make corrective proposals. While I must add that it is of moderate importance what this House accepts, because your government's action plans are changing with such dynamics, their actions are so unpredictable, chaotic, unthinkable, and they are likely to separate so many spare funds for citizens from the costs that cannot be recognised at the time of adoption of the budget, that this makes the reception and hope of substantive critical proposals very problematic. Well, we don't even know when the money's going to be poured into some cheating financial venture around Fidesz, and then it's going to slip away. Don't you think that's justified after the Quaestor scandal? We don't even know when they suddenly realize that they have to buy a miracle piano with a tax return of HUF 750 million after they've also been designed with massive public money. When is the last time we talk about reality in this circle? Do you really think this is where citizens' money belongs? Do you intend to continue this practice next year? A budget with a broad social, professional and economic consensus could be expected to be adopted. It's still not too late. It would be worth discussing. Of course, you have the power to bypass all of this. Today, however, this power is only about power politics, less about society. Although they were concerned that before they turned all social classes against each other and distracted them from their opportunities, their chances, they were engaged in internal power struggles, or they were competing with Jobbik to see which program to implement, to turn east or south. How do we disguise the inhumane programme that inhabits the country, how do we take the opportunity from the local authorities to deal with local social crises, and they do not want to respond to them at all. In the meantime, in reality, this social crisis is growing in the settlements. What is known about the budget is merely that they would reduce personal income tax by 1 percent. That's what the Fidesz faction leader was talking about. In other words, the one with a salary of HUF 100,000, the one with a salary of HUF 1 million, will have a surplus of HUF 10,000. It is a highly nuanced solution, I can say, especially in the light of the civil servant principle cited above. Instead, if taxes on abnormally high consumption were to reduce at least the VAT burden on basic foods, which is a similar item, we could reduce the financial problems of our poverty and poverty-living compatriots, as we know that the lower the income of a household, the greater the share of its expenditure will be used to meet its basic needs for subsistence. Moreover, the economic whitening due to the VAT reduction in these sectors would generate significant revenue for the budget. Your proposal, on the other hand, will lead to even more difficult everyday life for two thirds of society by further reducing the tax rate and further increasing consumption taxes in the unfair tax system. It would be time to build a solidarity society policy, even through a budget, which takes it seriously that if we want to avoid further polarisation of incomes, we need to introduce progressive income tax to a state, diverting a larger proportion of the top income bands and taxing on major assets - I quote Thomas Piketty. Europe, the world is moving in this direction. Hungary is closing down in this regard. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] On the other hand, I would add that this resource would be available to balance the odds and reduce the social divides and, perhaps most importantly, to the national wage increase programme. Coverage is available because the money earned is not enough to carry out the basic tasks, because workers' poverty is extremely high. [[14.00]] I was shocked to read on another subject: Minister Mihály Varga said that he insisted on maintaining the special tax in the telecommunications sector. What I would like to say about the special tax itself is that I am not reading an analysis in which even the former Minister of the current government does not ask for the introduction of special taxes for the recovery of the economy. The elimination and discharge of tax burdens in this respect is not primarily in the interests of companies, but of Hungarian citizens as soon as possible. The tax threatens the development programme I was just talking about, which is the outbreak of the 21st century. In the 20th century, adaptation for all Hungarian citizens to be able to participate in this digital, networked economy. At the moment, Hungary is at a competitive disadvantage in this regard, but so much so that not only Europe but also the Visegrád Four have been cut off in this respect. In view of the fact that, due to your irresponsible nature, the Hungarian state has withdrawn itself from its basic task by withdrawing from the social care system, it would now be left to the municipalities to provide substantial assistance. However, they will only be able to perform this task if they get their resources taken back by Fidesz. The settlement of this is inevitable in next year's budget. We Socialists are working on a proposal to ensure a permanent part of personal income tax for local governments, business tax and vehicle tax. The greatest social inequality reduction in Hungary can now be approached from the side of municipal funding. Resources should be given priority and priority. Health, social sector, education and local government systems in a dramatic situation have a first chance of making a meaningful change in this area, if you vote in favour of our amendments. If not, the re-production and enhancement of inequality is not part of XXI. It leads back to a feudal policy with the 2016 budget. Finally, we are at the very last moment to consider: the 2016 budget wants to address real social problems and challenges. In other words, do they want to say yes to themselves in terms of power, or do they want to answer people's needs? That will be the decision with the vote. Thank you.
u2015-05-27-65	I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, who will also continue the speech of the lead speaker on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-27-66	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is a need for a turnaround in economic policy and a turnaround in social policy. [[Sándor Font: Are we sure we're going back to 2009?]] The current budget contains a great deal of political ideas that the current government considers important. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the budget presented is the budget of the hit-and-run. It is not a budget for tax cuts, but a budget for hit-and-runs. The budget of the hit-and-run is because this budget does not provide a future or perspective for the majority of Hungary. This budget continues to do what the previous budgets, Fidesz's government over the last five years, have done to the benefit of the few to the detriment of the majority. You could have been braver. They could have been braver, even their own earlier sentences could have been put into law. For example, sentences about whether personal income tax should now be slowly considered as a single-digit key to income tax. Mihály Varga, for example, wrote this, but as Minister, he forgot about it in the budget submitted. A number of other legislative proposals are also attached to the budget submitted. The debate on these will also start this week. As previous speakers viewed these in complex unity, I will do the same. We all know how you, within the personal income tax system, have substantially reduced the tax on the highest incomes - the taxes on the highest incomes have been substantially reduced - while the lowest incomes have substantially increased their taxes. That's the sad fact. When you started governing five years ago, you didn't have to pay personal income tax after the minimum wage. During socialist governance, this income band did not bear any personal income tax. When you introduced a single-key personal income tax, you cheated these people because your former tax-free income was charged with a 16-percent key. This is quite simply unacceptable. Now they're releasing one of these, but I would like to point out that the Socialists are of the opinion that the minimum wage should not bear a tax of 16% or 15%. This income tax system, in addition to being unfair, as it is a burden on the lowest earners, is also harmful from an economic policy point of view. We all know the sad fact that the less spendingable income a family has, the less it can consider what it spends on. A low income family spends its income basically every last penny. In view of the tax increase you have made in this round, the poverty of your employees has increased dramatically in Hungary. This simply means that families in which earners seek the statutory minimum wage are indeed living below the social minimum level, according to what is known today. In other words, the minimum wage provided in official laws and regulations is not enough to make a living. These families can't think about how much to spend on shoes, how much to spend on food, and how much to save, let's say. These families can't afford to have any savings. The sociological surveys sadally show the fact that a significant, very significant part of these families and the Hungarian families are in this circle. They simply do not have a savings equivalent to a month's wage. If an unexpected expense falls into these families, there is simply nowhere to go. In view of the fact that these people and families of modest income spend their salaries every last penny, it is a simple economic fact that if the income of these families increases, consumption will also increase in Hungary. Therefore, social justice and the need for economic policy in the proposal of the socialists to contribute substantially to economic growth are linked to the expansion of domestic consumption. Let us not forget that consumption has only been rising again in Hungary for a few months. Because of your tax policy, it has been stagnating and declining for years. We need the reverse of this. Our proposal is clear and clear. Definite steps must be taken to ensure that the minimum wage is as low as possible. The MSZP will therefore propose a multi-key personal income tax system: we will present our related proposal this week. In this proposed tax rate system, the less a worker or a small entrepreneur earns, this applies to them, as appropriate, the more in his pocket, the less tax he has to pay. [[14.10]] In other words, Fidesz's promise a few years ago is not only to be taken into account by the government but also to be submitted in the form of a proposal, but in the form that we will propose a one-digit personal income tax for low-income earners this week. This is what corresponds to social justice. So, unlike what Antal Rogán said, in the last five years the net minimum wage has lost its purchasing value, precisely because of the tax increases. Today, there is less to buy from the current value of the net minimum wage than at the beginning of the Fidesz administration. That's the sad fact. The fact that the net minimum wage would have increased only modestly in the previous cycle is quite simply a lie, since it was already the case that, after the first Orbán government, the Socialists abolished the minimum wage tax, the net minimum wage increased by several percentage points in that year alone, let alone for the entire cycle. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words about public debt. At an exciting point in Fidesz's speech, the head of the Fidesz faction and his lead speaker simply interrupted a series of figures when he explained the development of the government debt and quoted the related data. For some weird reason, he stopped at 2010. Maybe it's not a coincidence. [[Antal Rogán: Since then the government debt-to-GDP ratio has decreased!]] Because, Mr Group Leader, in contrast to your words, gross and net public debt has increased significantly during your governance. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: 5000 billion.]] In fact, it has grown so that you have wasted 3000 billion forints of pension savings quite simply; while you wanted to use it for debt reduction, the gross and net debt of the Hungarian State is higher today than it was at the beginning of your governance. And if you are already referring to the sovereign debt indicator here, Mr. Group leader, I would just like to remind you that there is another bill on the House's table, which is aimed at changing the so-called debt formula, you are unable to maintain the debt formula you have introduced. This shows that your knife has broken into a substantial reduction in the public debt, and it has indeed managed to work out 1-2 percentage points lower, but once again, you have wasted 3,000 billion pensions. But it also required you to introduce various tricks on the last working day of the year when, according to the processing of official laws and data, sovereign debt indicators are measured at all. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the fact that the Socialists' proposal will result in a fairer tax system, if you accept it, we will, of course, propose to support the areas that are the losers of your governance. One of the great losers of your governance is health; one of the great losers of your governance is education policy; one of the great losers of your governance is the social sphere; one of the great losers of your governance is the local government. Dear House, With a fairer tax system, a more growth-friendly economic policy and additional support to the most important areas, we would only accept this budget. If you accept our proposals, that may be the case, if you reject them, then this budget is unacceptable to us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-27-67	I now give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-05-27-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I am still chasing the illusion that in a budgetary debate as a pro-government representative, if I listened to the opposition, I would expect substantive sentences from the socialists. I'm basing this on the fact that they've been steering for a long time. I've never judged a socialist government to be governed, let's say, by some kind of social vision, because you've never seen such a vision. [[Dr. László Varga: Haven't you been listening?]] But for a while, you thought they were good technocrats, so they're kind of good at steering. And in a budget debate, this should be reflected. Now, when you say such powerful words that this budget is a budget for hit-and-running, it brings or preserves feudal relations, so if you say such powerful sentences, the only thing you will reveal is that you have no meaningful thoughts. [[Dr. László Varga: You weren't listening!]] Because obviously, there is no sane person who would obviously sit up for these passwords that you're saying in a budget debate. What they say is incomprehensible. [[Dr. László Varga: He understood all the existing parties!]] In order to be able to judge the 2016 budget and assess what is in this budget at the level of numbers, however unpleasant it may be for you, we need to reach back at least 2008 when you were ruling, and when you got to the state of getting this country close to the state bankrupt. So if there was ever a need for a budgetary paradigm change, then this happened when you stood up to the problems and, once again, you put this country on the brink of bankruptcy. Obviously, the path you have taken in budgetary policy has been untenable, and the characteristic of which is that you take loans without necks and spend money. I would remind you that the Orbán government has reduced the country's public debt before your administration, and you have raised it insanely. [[Anita Herring: 3,000 billion missing!]] That's what we're suffering from today. Yes, Congresswoman says that we have been governing for five years or more. [[Anita Herring: I didn't say that! 3,000 billion!]] If we have to judge the issue of sovereign debt, we do not have to throw anyone into the misconception that we have the opportunity to actually reduce public debt at the level of numbers; we only have the opportunity to reduce this debt in proportion to GDP. If we can do this, we've done everything we can. If we had other aspirations, this would be a very big growth sacrifice. So in Hungarian society, we must be aware that only this crazy sovereign debt that you have left behind, what you have accumulated, is possible to wear it out, depending on our economic growth. Mr Sándor Burány also acknowledged that, in such a comparison, public debt was reduced by several percentage points, i.e. in proportion to GDP. Of course, we have to touch the debt formula, because under the circumstances today, I'll say it again, if we didn't do that, it would be a growth sacrifice. The Head of the State Audit Office, or the Head of the Fiscal Council, has endorsed these efforts. But back to 2008, on the basis of your governance, we can now say for sure - and the competent economists may already write this, I know such literature - that the state that is hardly involved in the regulation of the economy is sure to fail today in the world, and in Europe and in crisis periods, there is certainly a need for a strong state intervention in the management of the state and in the management of the country. Hungary has done this since 2010, because the people have given us a very powerful mandate to do so. Greece is the best example where the government is unable to do so or has no such strong mandate. We started from about the same situation, together with the Greeks, we were in the most sick budgetary situation at the time; the Greeks are still on the brink of bankruptcy today, and all the former critics of Hungary acknowledge that we have overcome this situation, and this country can now talk about lasting growth. So, as long as the socialist government was drifting around at that time, and even if it reacted to the economic challenge, it also did so late and made a lot of wrong decisions, which resulted in bankruptcy, the Orbán government did take on the role of reaching into the positions of the revenue holders of the budget strongly through state regulation, and this thinking, the rapid response, the rapid response, the rapid response given by the strong mandate for now, I can say that thanks to God, it has proved to be effective. [[14.20]] Important measures have also been taken in the budgets so far. We must mention this in order to demonstrate to you that we are talking about the continuation of budgetary policy so far. Obviously, we immediately intervened in the tax policy of the Socialists, which we have already criticised, and we undertake that our policy is to reduce taxes on personal income tax and wages, and we do this consistently in 2016 and we have increased taxes on consumption. I note that we are also proposing substantial reductions in 2016, but I will discuss this. We had to do something about that huge debt mountain we inherited from you. [[Sándor Burány: You've increased it!]] The revenue holders in the budget are indebted to the neck. The state was indebted, the number of settlements was indebted as part of the state, the companies were indebted, and the population itself was indebted. In the absence of time for each area, I do not mention what measures we have taken, which has led to a reduction in our foreign exchange exposure, and this is also seen in the positive processes of the budget. Or what you can see most is the financing of public debt. Today, thanks to God, the much smaller deficit with which we take the budget - and in 2016 we calculate a two-percent deficit - is better to pay as a result of the fiscal policy recognised by the financial markets. From 2012 to our days, only interest expenditure on the budget will be reduced by 200 billion a year. This is a huge achievement, and we are still carving in this year; the Minister said a lot of 70 billion, and I saw and remember in the general statement of the budget about 60 billion. As long as we had to create stability in 2010 and consolidate the budget, in 2012 we had the opportunity to launch action plans to protect jobs, and we carried them on every year and carried on in 2012. 2014 is the time when I can already tell you that the growth of the Hungarian economy is noticeable and tangible. These positive processes were already visible in 2013, with an increase of 3.6 percent in 2014. This also meant a beating situation for the Hungarian economy, which was close to bankruptcy a few years ago. This increase will continue in 2015, according to our calculations, at a rate of 3 per cent, and we calculate that the growth in 2016 will also be above 2 per cent. Today we have come to the point that this secure growth, which we can now build on, and the surplus created by certain growth - in terms of figures - if the country produces 3 percent, this means an extra HUF 400-500 billion in the country's budget, with which the government can manage. And the lower public debt and the better financing of public debt I mentioned a figure that we have eased 200 billion in the budget in one year - an additional 60 or 70 billion positions. If we count EU funds for these figures, budget surpluses, which the Hungarian economy now creates for God, I must also say that the Orbán government is consciously using these resources for the use of EU funds. The previous Orbán government has not yet had the opportunity to transform the internal system of funding in substance, since we inherited from you the position that you have discussed with the European Union, then you have decided that many of the European Union's resources are important, but perhaps they will not be booked in the most important areas. As local government leaders, of course, we were all happy to have resources. We are also breaking up with this practice because we have now been able to break up, and we have said that most of the resources, at least 60 percent, must go to the economy, and that the additional resources generated by the growth of the economy can then be used for welfare. So if we make good use of the surplus income generated by the economy and the EU funds, and I believe that we will continue to do so, then this is the key to our catching up. We have the right to set out in the budget for 2016 the objective of moving towards full employment. Full employment is considered to be a state where unemployment is up to 4%. Perhaps this is the state in which we can say that everyone who wants to work and can work gets a job income. We are not here yet, but I also modestly note to my socialist fellow Members that we are calculating, in terms of unemployment indicators and in terms of European comparison, let us say, with nice indicators. I know you're about to add that the main part of this is public work, and I know that the main part of this is public work, but the Hungarian economy has also produced surplus jobs. And we are temporarily building on public work, because we think that it is not through aid that we need to support people, but in some way that the state should provide families in difficulty with value-creating work and work incomes during a crisis. And this 2016 budget - unlike your password - also aims to increase the average income of families, and we are also able to give decisive and appropriate figures. In 2016, again, I raise and quote the general justification of the law - the surplus remaining with the families: I saw 145 billion in the general statement of reasons, and the Minister said even more in his exposé, because the VAT reduction, which applies to pigmeat, obviously in some way also affects the income positions of families who consume pigmeat. 145 billion is a very strong number, if that's all that's left in addition to the families, and 170 billion is even more joyful. If I go back a few years, I will read in the bill until 2011-2016 that the personal income tax - which we have reduced and will reduce now - was 3600 billion extra income for families. So that over-criticized one-key personal income tax had this effect. If I also mention how much family discount we have given to families in that time, this means HUF 1300 billion. After that, I think we have a right to say that we look to the future with confidence. If I can list for you - I still have time for this - what are the main points that appear in the budget, then I am obviously saying first of all the improvement in the income position of families. Here's another number. A family with two children with an average income will earn more income by HUF 116 thousand in next year's budget positions, mainly by reducing personal income tax by 1 percent and by increasing family tax benefits for such families. From 10,000 forints per child in a few years, we will reach a family tax relief of 20,000 forints. We continue to maintain the ged extra, start the new home-building support, encourage the desire to marry with discounts, and reduce the VAT on already mentioned pork from 20 to 5 percent. Perhaps this is the circle that needs to be mentioned in order to justify public opinion that the income positions of families are increasing by budgetary means. The other area, which is obviously worth mentioning, and in this respect again, the Orbán government is consistent, is measures affecting children. [[14.30]] The largest area of demagoguery, which is always the case in politics when we talk about child hunger or child hunger. This is also common in the Committee on Budgets. If I have to say a number that the budget spends a year on this area, it's 70 billion forints. We have created the conditions for small nebulos to be compulsory in kindergartens from the age of three, so that they can be institutionalised, and institutional care provides them with a free meal. And this free meal, of course, is true not only in kindergarten, but also in the higher classes of primary school. The other package of measures involving children, which brings a significant surplus to families, is practically implemented through textbook provision. We strive to get to the point where all children get their textbooks for free. We are doing this in an up-and-coming system: in 2016, as we are talking about this budget year, the entry fourth graders will receive their textbooks free of charge. Another important group of pensioners is society and, in this respect, the thinking of the current budget. For pensioners, as always, we were able to tell them to maintain the income position they have. Their pensions will also increase with inflation rates, with inflation of 1.6 percent in 2016. It is always in question whether we are able to continue or want to continue the great achievement of the Orbán government's pension policy, which concerns women, whether they can retire after 40 years of employment. This draft budget preserves this thinking. I also think it is important to mention that we are trying to preserve the measures we have taken in recent years to reduce the costs. We do not want these to be one-off reductions and the prices are getting out of hand again. We believe unbrokenly that by creating the National Public Service Provider, we can keep the prices down in these conditions or keep them under control. Obviously, the overhead expenditure in the family budget represents a significant item. The next focus area, which I think is very important, can be described by a slogan instead of a work. I have already mentioned this in part, and I will mention it precisely here on the basis of the budget figures, to calculate in 2016 that 240,000 people will get community service. So that's how many people we've got, because the budget is covering this. Compared to the situation a year ago, this means that from 270 billion to 340 billion forints the resources that give the condition that this required number of public employees can be financed by the budget up to 240 000. I mentioned the job protection action plans that we started them in 2012, and they have been going on ever since. This affects 900,000 people, and it affects the preservation of 900,000 people's jobs. The innovation of 2016 is that, thank God, as a rural representative, I can say that agriculture is already covered by this action plan. It is also important that parents with small children who can only work part-time - and should also be encouraged to work part-time - can benefit from tax relief through the budget. Then, a few years ago, this is a novelty of the Orbán government's thinking, and I think this is very important, and here I refer again to the fact that we have finally been there since 2014 that there is an extra income generated in the budget through growth. We had to think about the fact that social groups that rightly expect their income situation to increase through their wages, since they have not received a wage increase for years, should start this process. This means thinking in the career program. The 2016 budget also expects that the teachers' career model will continue as planned, as is true for armed and police workers, this is true for the social and child protection sector, and so long-awaited career models of government officials will be launched in mid-2016. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] I think that the measure and success of our governance, also in view of 2018 is in these programmes, how we can bring the surplus of income generated by the economy to different social groups without endangering the balance achieved, or endangering growth. We are living in a period of time and in the last hundred years of Hungarian economic history there are very few such periods that we are able to produce growth with budgetary balance. Such a period was very few. The first Orbán government was considered like this four years ago. But obviously, by analysing economic policy cycles, we do not have to think in four years. We think that we should preserve this thinking, because Hungary has never been successful in Eastern Central Europe in this respect. If there was growth, there was no balance, if there was balance, there was no growth. Now we can secure both at the same time. I think it's important to mention another area, and that's practically the last thing I'm going to say here, which the budget brings to the public with the slogan that it's a good state. What's that supposed to mean? We have also transformed the structure of the state, created task groupings between the local government and the state sphere, and created government offices at territorial level. As the second stage of state reform, the government is now seeking to remove unreasonable rules from the system, thereby reducing bureaucracy. In fact, the 2016 budget takes on more than that because it says that certain fees and contributions, which may have a higher cost of collecting than their benefits, will be taken out of the system. That's what we call a reduction in the government's budget. According to the budget figures, this leaves 10 billion for families that have so far had to pay in the state register if they came into contact with the state. We can tell businesses that 2016 calculates that exports will continue to increase, that small and medium-sized enterprises will operate under larger and better lending conditions, which are able to do so. I mention the reduction in banking tax, as a condition for banks to be more involved in lending the economy than before. In the case of banks, this means savings of HUF 60 billion, which is now no longer coming into the state's budget. I also think this is a healthy and normal process. But the most important thing we can say to businesses is to monitor the permanent emergence of operational programmes, apply for, apply for and obtain 60 percent of the EU funds offered to them in the budget, because it is in our interest to make good use of these funds. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I can tell you that I am sure that I will not reveal a secret if I say that we will not follow the amendments tabled by the Socialists. That would be a big mistake on our part. We are moving on the path that Hungarian voters have authorised us to take and which has undisputed results in budgetary policy. Our task is to manage the positive effects of successful fiscal policy in our social policy, if you will, because this is the key to our new election success. The smaller party will also feel good about supporting this budget. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-69	I now give the floor to Gábor Vona, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-05-27-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Budget debate is the festive moment of parliamentary work. The question is, is there a festive atmosphere, is there any reason to celebrate, is there anyone here who wants to celebrate? But perhaps even more important question is whether people will have reason to celebrate when they will suffer the effects of this budget. [[14.40]] In the main speaker part of the debate, I think that it is absolutely necessary - and this has been done by the speakers before me - to think more about the budget. We must not only debate the figures, the figures and the facts in the budget here, but also the underlying government economic philosophy and economic strategy. This must also be discussed, since the budgetary debate that is taking place year after year can easily make a person short-sighted, forgetting that not only year after year we need to define the main directions of economic policy, the numbers that are most important in people's lives, but also have a longer-term responsibility for each budget, so we must be able to think further. Of course, the opposite can also be a risk, it can also be a risk, when you project your desires, your visions, your perspectives into the numbers, and in this effort you lose your connection with reality, you don't read out the numbers that are in it. Perhaps this was the case when Minister Mihály Varga presented the budget here in Parliament on 13 May, and his press conference, if I remember correctly, was his last sentence, which I would quote: This is what Mihály Varga said on May 13th, which is an ambitious idea that this budget bill before us would be a document for the creation of civil Hungary, the problem is that there is nothing to support it. So neither the political environment, nor the economic environment, nor the budget itself, support the creation of civil Hungary here. It's a citizen who's not afraid. I, when I look around Hungary, see that everyone is afraid. The hardworking little people are afraid of the danger of going down, afraid of unemployment, the continuing presence of emigration, the emigration of family members. But the entrepreneur is also afraid that he will constantly be forced into the political feudal system, that if he does not join the ranks, he may not have a job, he is afraid of the unpredictable economic environment. But the municipality is also afraid of whether it is lying well at the government or not, half the old man, half the young, half the Middle Ages, so everyone is afraid. This is not civil Hungary at the moment, and the biggest problem is that this budget does not make it so, but I will go on, not even taking a step in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget is essentially the art of coordinating four items or four operations: revenue increases, revenue cuts, expenditure increases, expenditure cuts. All four of them have their place and their role, all four of them can be good if they're used at the right time and in the right place, and all four of them can be bad if they're used at the wrong time and in the wrong place. Two effective, although contradictory, models of budget redistribution have been implemented in the world, one being the Scandinavian model and the other being the Anglo-Saxon model. The essence of the Scandinavian model is that it enforces a greater withdrawal, but it then provides a much wider service and a much more meaningful service to its society. The Anglo-Saxon model is the opposite, it achieves a very narrow withdrawal, and the service it provides to citizens is also limited, thus encouraging them to take care of themselves. Both of them are useful and effective for themselves and for your local value, and I think we can agree that each country's task is to find its own model, try to find the best opportunity for you to redistribute through the budget. The problem is that Hungary has created the Hungarian model over the last 25 years - this has been quite distorted - and we have taken over the big withdrawal from the Scandinavian model and the small service from the Anglo-Saxon model. So we draw a lot and then provide little of that money; this is the zanza of the past 25 years of the Hungarian budget history. So let us not sleep with what the pro-government speakers have said here, that we are talking about the budget for tax cuts, and that it will now be only 15 percent by means of the next year's budget, because the reality is that the tax burden on Hungarian labour is one of the most serious in Europe. The Hungarian tax burden is therefore not small at all, and it is natural that it is in the best interests of the budget, and it would be in our interest to have more revenue in the budget and to be able to finance as much expenditure as possible and reasonable expenditure. The question is, how do we do that? That would be good for me and for us, and I hope that, in your opinion, if the increase in revenue were not to be achieved by increasing the tax squeeze per capita, we would be able to spread the burden on the public as widely as possible. Well, this is what has not been achieved at the moment, and it seems that it will not be achieved through the budget, because according to the OECD's latest survey, we are the fourth after Belgians, Germans and Austrians in terms of the tax burden on wages, and next year's amendment will not change that, so this fourth place, which we cannot be proud of in this case, will not change after the changes in next year's budget. With regard to spending, how to make as much meaningful expenditure as possible, I think the task would be very simple: I should not steal the money to translate it very simply and in the language of the street for all of us, corruption should somehow be eliminated. In fact, if we are already making spending and spending, then perhaps we should also take care to ensure that the expenditure that the budget is carrying out actually reaches the target and that it is truly an effective target for Hungarian society. The basic sentence and the slogan of the Jobbik budget related to economic policy and economic philosophy in general - this was also the key phrase of our election programme in 2014 - a very simple sentence: if there is work, then there is everything, if there is no work, then there is nothing. So on this basis, we are both measuring the government's economic policy as a opposition party and the current budget ahead of us, because if there is a job - and I am talking about a decent job and I am going to go further on this - then it is natural that families have a livelihood. They can finance their expenses, their livelihoods, their children's education, where appropriate, they can also get money for holidays, other expenses, if there is work, and if there is work, not only families have money, but also the budget has tax revenue, it is important to underline this, because this is how the budget can make enough money to manage the right money. After these introductory thoughts, allow me to turn to the budget on which I have to go before going to the specific analysis, so I have to go to the problem of timing for a moment, since Minister Mihály Varga submitted the bill five months before the expected or normal period. The budget is a financial plan, and a financial plan is based on a base, as far as I know, and the base can be provided in the case of the budget by the facts of the previous year, which are missing now, so there is a lack of both the closure of 2014 and an adequate estimate of the 2015 annual performance. This kind of timing, with which we are now forced to discuss the budget, which we are forced to suffer as opposition parties because of you, is an inexplicable step forward in the budgetary debate from a professional point of view. The closure report on the implementation of the 2014 budget is not yet ready, the government's financial report containing it is not and has not been submitted, which is not audited as a matter of fact, and since this will take place at the earliest in July under the current law, but probably only at the end of August, and the closing act will only be drawn up after, at the end of October, at the moment, the government requests Parliament's authority to manage the state's finances for the next year without having previously obtained the discharge from the implementation of the budget for last year. So one leg is definitely missing, but the other leg is missing, as I said, because at the beginning and mid of May, when the Minister presented this bill, the draft budget bill, the budget was not yet estimated with reasonable accuracy, so the figures for the implementation of the budget for 2015 were not yet estimated. In fact, not only could they not be estimated with reasonable accuracy, but even the first quarter facts were not available. By the way, it is not by accident that the date for the submission of the draft budget bill usually falls by September, its debate by October to November and its adoption by December, which is when appropriate estimates can be made, and the annual expected performance can be estimated. The 2016 budget base therefore lacks both legs, on the one hand, the 2014 accounts and, on the other hand, an estimate of the 2015 performance, and therefore such early creation of the law cannot be justified by professional arguments. I would look at the budget itself on the basis of four aspects: one is the question of economic growth, the other is the question of balance, the third is the question of employment, and the fourth is the question of living standards, because perhaps we talk less about this, or if we talk about it, we do this at the level of political debates, and we do not necessarily do this at the level of numbers. Let's look at economic growth. We all know that the economy of a nation state in the global economy is highly dependent on external conditions. [[14.50]] It was read in the Budget Council, and I can only agree with that, that at the moment the external circumstances are relatively good for the Hungarian economy. There is a fluctuating, but low oil prices, liquidity in the money market, confidence indices are improving, there is a moderately expanding European Union, especially the German economy that is important to us, the European Central Bank's asset purchase programme. So there are external conditions that are good for the Hungarian economy, creating good conditions and a good environment. Although there are also risks, let us also consider the situation in Ukraine, the geopolitical conflict that is taking place in Ukraine, or the increasingly threatening presence of the Islamic State in Europe, or the development of the Greek debt crisis, or the possible escalation that could also upset this still positive external context at the moment. Before the Hungarian economy, external conditions and external conditions are good, the question is how optimistic we can be with regard to internal conditions. According to the budget bill, the government is optimistic. In any case, in terms of economic growth. After an increase of 3.6 per cent in 2014, the government calculates 3.1 per cent in 2015 and 2.5 per cent in 2016 the government's projections for economic growth. I must definitely note as a problem that we regret that the Minister or the Government itself does not look forward to the next years, even though it would have had an obligation to refer to this under the Public Finance Act, as it states that, together with a justification, it will present the framework figures for the planned appropriations for the three years following the budget year. This was presented by the government before last year, not last year, although it's a legal duty, and it won't do it this year. The problem is not only the legal obligation in this regard, but also the fact that the introduction of these framework figures would have given the government the opportunity to prove that its optimism about economic growth is not just for the next year, but it sees a longer-term growth path for Hungary. In terms of economic growth and in line with the budget law, it can be said that the government also trusts in the growth of domestic consumption and the strengthening of investment. However, it is feared that both of his expectations are illusions. Indeed, low inflation can help internal consumption, but there are no guarantees of sustained growth. The resolution of the crisis of foreign exchange credentials, the relief of the burden on foreign exchange credentials, has been mentioned several times. I would like my fellow Members to see more of the victims, and not just of each other's appearances, to learn about reality. This process is now characterised by sobering up, bitter encounters with reality and realization. I am not sure at all that, after those affected by foreign exchange can see what debts they still have in the future, their potential additional resources will now be spent to boost domestic consumption and will fuel Hungarian domestic demand. Just in parentheses, let me note that the proposal for the forinting of Jobbik at the entry rate as early as 2009-2010 would have been much fairer, much more efficient and much cheaper for Hungary. We are very sorry that the government didn't want to hear this, and eventually it got stuck, in his own promises he made market-priced forints. So I wouldn't be so sure about the durability of internal consumption if I were you. As far as investments are concerned, we also have concerns here. Our GDP-to-GDP investment rate has been below the regional average for a decade and has moved away from the bottom of 16-17 per cent only using a large amount of EU funds. In the current budget law, we read that this can reach a peak of 21.5 percent, but then it is on a declining path. Once again, we don't know what's expected after that. Mihály Varga and the government will leave it to our imagination again to write down the appropriate frame numbers without drawing them. For the sake of interest: in order to break out of the region, the investment rate should be increased to approximately 25 per cent of GDP. Perhaps this could be used to produce substantial economic growth. But we know very well that, within the framework of the current budget and the current economic policy, the possibility of achieving this is very low. So much for economic growth, and let us turn to the issue of balance, which is the basis for the government's communication of success. Let me be fair, there's even some basis for that. Especially if we look at the balance situation relatively and compare it, let us say, with the policy of the irresponsiblely economic, irresponsible socialist governments that add to the budget. In this respect, it can certainly be said that there is a difference between Fidesz and the government of the MSZP in terms of balance. There are two main reference bases for government representatives and for the budget. One is keeping the general government deficit below 3 per cent, perhaps the most commonly referred to moment, in which the Fidesz government has indeed succeeded in recent years. However, it is not usually added to the social cost of this. The second is the reduction in interest expenditure, which will be achieved through the next budget. This is where we got to the point in which several people have already been in a debate on the issue of public debt, and I saw that the dialogue of the deaf was conducted, parallel monologues were heard. Fidesz argues that public debt to GDP has decreased, which is true. The opposition argues that the nominal value of the public debt has increased, which is also true. I think we don't have to play this tickle-tickle game anymore, let's just say it depends on how we look at it, depending on how we look at the sovereign debt situation. I think 25,000 billion is over 20,000 billion. I think even Antal Rogán has to accept that. Moreover, in 2010 the Széll Kálmán plan promised a ratio of 65 to 70 per cent of GDP in relation to public debt. The nominal debt of the central budget can now be 72.8 percent at the end of 2015. The fact that the budget has increased in nominally, absolute numbers in the last cycle cannot be denied. The Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. According to its March 2015 data, Hungary held or held 24 370 billion. I am quoting from the budget bill:. The nominal debt of the central budget will increase by HUF 759.9 billion by the end of 2016 and reach HUF 25 252.8 billion. This is a quote from your budget law. In other words, the government debt in the Orbán era has not decreased either, but has increased steadily. If we average the value of this increase for years, we will find that the government debt increased by HUF 800 billion per year over the six years. In terms of balance, therefore, the prospects, macro indicators, and in particular in comparison with the previous socialist governments, are good, to sum up this issue. We also say that the sword of Damokles is still hanging over Hungary's neck on the issue of public debt, and that maintaining balance in the medium to long term does appear uncertain. Turning to employment after the issue of balance and economic growth, I can say that we are also seeing a prognosis of success similar to balance here. I'm sure you'll remember that a few minutes ago I admitted that in terms of balance, you have some right to bang the government's breasts. He's banging her on the issue of employment, but she has no right here. This is simply a hoax on the issue of employment, which is taking place at the level of communication on the part of the government. I also understand why this is necessary, because the promises were very high. It was therefore necessary for the government to show something in accordance with its own promises. We all remember the promise of one million jobs in ten years, which was also clarified in the Széll Kálmán plan, and said that domestic businesses will create this one million jobs. It is now clear that this was a false promise, not only the million-dollar number, but also the fact that domestic businesses, i.e. the competitive sphere, will create this one million jobs. When Viktor Orbán came to power in the spring of 2010, the number of people employed was 3.8 million in the population aged 15 and 74, which increased to 4.1 million in four years, with some 300 thousand people. During the same period, the number of unemployed and active job seekers fell from nearly 500,000 to 350 thousand, with 150,000 people. These are the figures that are facts, only the increase that is behind these figures, due to public employment and foreign employment, only very, very minimal and small part of the competition sector. [[15.00]] And if I have already mentioned public employment and public work, then I must say, for a few sentences, that when the opposition, and in this case Jobbik, makes the issue of public work a subject of debate, it is not because of what the government puts in our mouth, what the public work programme is as it is, we reject it in the first place, but the way it is implemented on the one hand, but in this case precisely that you want a social policy measure to be accounted for as an employment policy. The public works programme and public work itself, at least in our reading, are social policy measures. It would be good for the government to state what it means in the workplace and what it means in public work, because as long as we do not work with the same concepts, it seems that we will not be able to have a meaningful debate on the same subject. We think it's the workplace where you can maintain yourself and your family fairly. This isn't community service. Public work is a social policy measure where people who are trapped in the labour market, either without their own faults or without their own faults, and we give them social benefits, so in exchange for social benefits, we expect them to do something of public benefit. This is public work in our reading, but this is not an employment policy. This does not mean saying that we underestimate community service - because it is also used in our mouths, although we have never said so, because in our program there was public service - it is only about not mixing apples with pears. During the current period, around 200,000 public workers are accounted for. The government intends to increase it to 250 thousand from the second half of 2015 and allocated HUF 270 billion from the budget this year, and next year the National Employment Fund's Start Work Programme already includes HUF 340 million in appropriations. Neither is the problem that the government is sacrificing to the public work programme, and I think it is important that it devotes itself to the public work programme, and that it also pays attention to its effectiveness and return; the problem is more because it can be seen from this that, in the medium term and long term, the government itself does not hope for any meaningful economic change. He himself accepted that his promises of job creation were merely false promises and that the government wanted to achieve the economic policy of public workers. If you look at the figures: we have recently calculated that if you are based on the increase of around 300,000 people in total employment over four years, and we deduct the number of people employed in the public sector from this, then we will get what you should actually refer to in the last five years. That's 50 to 100 thousand people, that's the number of people who could take the jobs of the competition sector. I think that, compared to the $1 million promise, 50 to 100 thousand people in five years are very moderate, and there is absolutely no reason to be happy or boob-banging. What has to do with the illusion of another employment has to do with emigration. When working abroad, we can only rely on estimates. Usually, the majority puts the specific amount and number of this around half a million. Jobbik has said many times that this is one of Hungary's most serious problems. It is completely incomprehensible to us that the government is also describing this as some kind of success, an adventure or a process of other terms, which is natural, and which we should be happy about. I think that this does not give rise to joy at all, and even this is the government's negative certificate, and the creation of civil Hungary, which is supposed to be a document of this budget, is precisely the living rebuttal of this. I understand that you would certainly like to create a civil Hungary in this document, but, as I have already said, this budget does not support this, and on the other hand I also feel that you are a little overcompensating for the political debate that has started a few months ago around civil Hungary and the term "citizen". According to one of Fidesz's close politicians, this is merely a product for the ruling party, not some kind of economic or social strategy. You have had a very unpleasant debate on this matter, and I see now that you are trying to prove it with your budget - a little sweaty. After employment, I would like to turn to the standard of living, that is to say, the question of what macro indicators are worth if people do not feel the improvement of their lives. Then either these numbers are deceptive, or even if there are real numbers behind the macro indicators, real growth, real growth, as the lead speaker of KDNP was talking about, it may not get to the people involved. To put it graphically, it may be worth the fruit on the tree, only someone will take it off, they will eat the fruit from the tree before it reaches the people; I mean, of course, corruption. I have already said that Hungary is in the fourth worst place in the tax burden on labour wages. We have one of the worst fourth places in the world, this is consumption at purchasing power parities. This is where we are in Europe, the fourth worst in the European Union, only Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia are prevented. We appreciate and support the reduction of sija, career models, the extension of family preferences for families with two children, but we can also say that the government will not be able to stop poverty with the 2016 budget. Another interesting figure, which I would no longer be able to analyse because of the progress of time: according to the UN happiness report, we are ranked 104th from 158 countries, considering how the Hungarian people feel. But I'm gonna do it for a second. The Czechs, Slovaks and Slovenians are in the first 50, and we have not even managed to get into the first 100. If we look at these four areas, economic growth, balance, employment and living standards, then we can see that we may have a reason for some optimism in terms of balance, and that, in the context of economic growth, man's stomach is shrinking and the situation is tragic in terms of employment and standard of living. And on the basis of which I was unable to examine this budget bill, because it simply does not contain such references and is not in the government's economic philosophy, that is the question of the ecosocial economy. Through such glasses, this budget cannot be assessed because it is a XX. The budget of the 20th century, the concept of an ecosocial economy, and its economic philosophy is a XXI. 20th century economic strategy, vision. A XX. 21st century budget is very difficult. I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it. I couldn't do it. By the way, since I have brought up the eco-social aspect, there will be 87 billion less in the next year's budget. But what is also an important element of the ecosocial national economy, in our view, is, for example, the VAT reduction that we consider necessary not only in the case of pigmeat, but also in the case of basic food and child-rearing products; not now, not in this budget debate, but almost since our presence in Parliament, we have been asking for this amendment, this proposal. I will also not talk about the elimination of corruption, and my fellow Members will talk about this much in the course of the debate. What I would like to mention, however, is the tax system that supports production, which is also an important element of Jobbik's tax policy. Let me be very constructive: for example, I would recommend to ourselves and everyone else the proposal of the LMP to reduce the VAT on locally produced food. I consider this to be a proposal worthy of consideration and debate, just because yesterday I tried to debate with Prime Minister on whether or not the Treaty of Accession could be amended, because under the current Treaty of Accession, I do not consider it possible to restore the food industry and the manufacturing industry in Hungary. Of course, the Prime Minister has told us what we think - it seems he is accustomed to say what others think at Fidesz; only this Jobbik, let me tell you what I think here. We are talking about amending the Treaty of Accession, not leaving the European Union. However, we believe that the amendment to the Accession Treaty is very, very important for the food industry to recover. The fact that this is not possible within this is also proof that there is no reference in this budget, and there is no sign of life from which I would like to read that the Hungarian food industry and the Hungarian manufacturing industry will be on their feet; but we do not have such high expectations, because this cannot be resolved in a year, of course, but at least in this direction the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, will move in this direction. You seem to have given up on this possibility, but I do not know how you want to create decent jobs in Hungary. It would be great to finally have a budget debate that isn't about surviving another year. That's why I said that it was XXI. We need centuries of thought; this is a XX. 100th century budget. So the government has one option: to withdraw this budget bill and try to come up with something new by October 15. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-71	I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-05-27-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The budget in black shows how the government feels about the situation in Hungary, about people's problems. It also tells us what direction the government chooses, whether it is capable of progress, or whether it chooses to walk locally. In view of the draft budget for 2016, I would like to ask my pro-government colleagues to stop talking about a stronger and better performing Hungary, improving the situation of hardworking people. [[15.10]] This budget is the budget of further demise, poverty, and desperation. Starting from a little further away, it would also be worth paying attention to the processes that are taking place in the world, the trends and processes that determine the next decade. The current world economy system is in crisis and has never, to be exact, been released from the decay of seven years ago. Looking for a way out, more and more economists point out that the barrier to development, especially in peripheral and semi-peripheral countries, is clearly an increase in wealth, income and social differences. As the new Neumann Prize-winning economist Emmanuel Saez puts it - based on Thomas Piketty's research, and they have already been referred to today - everything has turned towards the rich, despite economic growth, if most of the people and businesses have no use for it, the top 1-5 percent will take out their profits. This is why the reduction of differences is the most important today, and its number one tool is progressive income tax and higher taxation of capital income. Reinforcing the transfer of income from the rich to the poorer. This goes completely against the neoliberal economic policy of Fidesz, which is represented by a single-key tax, and is based on the support of the rich and multinational companies from many sources. On this basis, Hungary's biggest task is to catch up on wages, to eradicate workers' poverty. The Hungarian wage level is so low that 4 million citizens live on income below the minimum living level, and this is due to the conscious policy of Fidesz. For millions more, living means living from month to month. Four-fifths of society have no financial resources, i.e. they are incapable of increasing their individual abilities and human and social capital on their own. In addition, low minimum wages have an adverse impact on the productivity of the SME sector. In principle, therefore, the budget should go in the opposite direction. It should not include cementing the constraints of recent years, which shifts hundreds of billions a year from the poorer to the richer, without any profit from the national economy, sending education, health care, social care and the protection of our natural resources to a downward level. On the contrary, the task should be to catch up on wages and tidy up public services. We can't see any of this. Dear House, Two things about the specific budget bill immediately turn a blind eye. One is that it doesn't contain a meaningful change in terms of the budget in 2015 and the other is its timing. It's May, and the government is already trying to engrave 2016 figures in stone. Why? They may think that this is what the players in the global money market expect them to do. Perhaps this is their way of saying, in addition to the roughly unchanged numbers and items, that they do not deviate from what they once decided to do. But it would be a grave mistake to confuse stability and inactivity, predictability and ingenuity. The government's budget for next year is not responding to the livelihood crisis that is affecting people as much as it is this year. He doesn't interfere in the deterioration of health care, education, just as he hasn't. As early as May, knowing how the economy of the country and the world stands at the end of the year is a serious hubris. We can remember the basic law of granite strength: it has been amended six times in the last four years, not to mention the continuous correction of so-called fundamental laws. It is enough to tilt the rate of HUF, euro or dollar, and to start over with budget planning. This proposal can therefore be considered as a declaration of intent with the best of intentions. The budget of the 2017 World Water Championship has doubled in one month from 25 billion to 49 billion forints. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who does not view the country from the glass cage can see a fragmented, poorer country and depopulated settlements because young people earn a living abroad. Society was torn apart because it continued with the single-key tax, the spree of social withdrawal. The government punishes ordinary and small-time families, rewards the super-rich, the offshore knights. A million new jobs were promised in 2010. To date, a total of 40,000 real jobs have been created in the competition sector, despite their efforts to cosmetrate statistics with a mass of failed public works programmes. In itself, the fact that every year more people have to spend on community service indicates that there is a great deal of trouble and the situation is getting worse. The Hungarian labour force is one of the cheapest in the European Union, so it is really impossible to say that labour costs are a barrier to job creation or growth. And so it is not surprising that no quality new jobs will be created, because such jobs can typically be created by Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. But they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, uh, they're, they're, uh, According to a separate calculation for the 4 million taxpayers, a quarter, half, 1.3-2,2 million people earn less than the minimum living amount from month to month. You might think it's only in the ruthless competitive sphere. But no. A third of civil servants live in near-deep poverty, despite years of waiting for wage increases for health care, education, the social sector or community transport operators, workers. And you'll be lucky not to fire them and then reclaim them as public workers for three quarters of the minimum wage. Two thirds of the money of low-income small businesses, such as start-ups, is put on the hands of the state, while multinationals, such as so-called strategic partners, receive millions of grants after each job creation, often ten times as much as a domestic small and medium-sized enterprise. We have to say: as long as the government insists on competing with China and India with low wages, we are waiting for real growth here in vain. This wage competition is a downward spiral that doesn't break out. There's always someone who can do the job cheaper. We have to compete to make better, newer, more attractive. We must compete not at the cost of labour, but at the level of education. If you look behind the numbers, you can see exactly what Fidesz-KDNP believes. The Orbán government sees people's place in multi-company assembly plants, they want to compete with low-skilled low-cost labour in the worst-paid sectors of Europe. Minister Varga has been declaring a 1% reduction in personal income tax for weeks, and he wants us to believe how good it will be for people, how much more money will be left in their pockets, but he'll keep the substance quiet. Namely, it's going to be good for the better earners again. I'd like to do a simple math for him. If the tax of a company leader, bank manager or politician earning a million forints is reduced by 1 percent, they will take home more by 10 thousand forints at the end of the month. In the pocket of the janitor, social worker and health worker who earns 100,000 forints, only a thousand more remain. All relevant research shows that the 2008 economic crisis in Hungary hit the average and small-time people the most. Social inequalities have started to grow, and the Orbán government has accelerated the disintegration of society five years ago. This is today the biggest obstacle to progress and progress in Hungary. When are they gonna see it? The concept of LMP focuses on the well-being of people from work. Before I get to this and to the individual budget areas, I would like to make something very clear. LMP has been preparing an alternative budget since 2010, and the budget is drawn up in such a way that no HUF borrowing is required. The source and coverage of all of our proposed measures are given. With a fairer and more efficient tax burden, people can be helped, and the state register is no worse. [[15.20]] We believe that this is the only way for a responsible party to act. We're not hiding where we're gonna take the cover for positive measures. Wasteful luxury spending, state support for billionaires and mammoth companies, institutionalised public funding systems would be the losers if we followed the LMP budget. This would, among other things, put an immediate stop to unnecessary investment, such as stadium construction. Huge money goes to waste at the public media and the Tao funds for the top sports. We would like to approach the taxation of capital incomes to the level of withdrawal of labour, so that Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates can take their share of the public burden. Only small businesses would be exempt from this. We would stop the Paks expansion, which is already this year's $113 billion expenditure for taxpayers, even though there hasn't been a single cut. And last but not least, we'd shut down the corruption money pump. I would like to stop for a moment, because, as a counter-opinion, it is often said that it is not possible to see the whitening of the black economy as a certain revenue, that taxpayers' morale can only be gradually improved, and so on. But we are convinced that these excuses cannot be taken seriously as long as Ildikó Vida, president of the NAV, can examine himself while the Ministry excuses the Roma municipality's money distribution while the Prime Minister's son-in-law wins suspicious applications. It is not the excuses that people expect from the government, but the immediate steps: the elimination of offshore business, the ongoing investigation of the wealth of politicians and their families, the detection of chained VAT fraud, the real competition in EU applications. These were all proposed by the LMP and voted against by the ruling parties. Dear House, The LMP would break up radically with the Orbán government's economic and social policies. Our worldview focuses on a very simple truth: there will be lasting growth in Hungary only if decent work can be achieved from one to the other. As long as this is not the case, there are two possibilities for people and businesses: debauchery, grey and black economy or emigration. In this spirit, we have drawn up our employee poverty eradication package, which provides a safe livelihood for ordinary and below-average earners. As a first and most important measure, we would like to increase the salary of the least earners. We would introduce a fair personal income tax system with zero, 12, 24 percent keys, a total of 12, 24, 36 percent withdrawal on gross wages. The net of the minimum wage would thus increase by HUF 21,000 per month and the net of the average wage by HUF 38,000. Secondly, we would raise frozen salaries in the public sector for the seventh year. At present, 200,000 people among the civil servants are earning below the minimum living. This is unacceptable. The pay table is wrong, so we propose a new one, in which no category can pay under the minimum wage. The salaries of health workers, social workers, teachers' assistants should also be raised, all those who are in poverty in the public sector. Our third proposal would reduce the burden on families with children. The family allowance and the family tax allowance should also be extended to young people in higher education up to the age of 24 years. The state must acknowledge the sacrifice that families make in order for their children to gain competitive knowledge. We would also make family tax incentives fairer. We would increase the family allowance frozen since 2008, by 25 percent, by 30 percent for permanently ill or disabled children, or for single children. Our fourth proposal would put self-employed self-employed self-employed entrepreneurs in a better position by reducing contributions. We need to help those who can and want to stand on their own two feet. If they have little income, they can make a living, and they can also work for others in their micro and small businesses. Today, two thirds of the income of the smallest enterprises is immediately taken by the NAV and high contributions are fixed. This simply makes it impossible for people capable of undertaking or self-employment. In the longer term, it is necessary to ensure that taxes and contributions do not exceed half of the revenue. We now propose a 6.5 percent reduction in contributions. At European level, too, there is an extremely high, 27 percent VAT penalty for low-income earners and a breeding ground for the black economy. Our proposal would also help everyday livelihoods and rural agriculture and food production. The VAT on basic food produced locally would be reduced to 5%. All Hungarian vegetables and fruits, fresh milk and bakery products, flour, rice, raw meat, eggs and freshwater fish could be cheaper. This would help everyone, unlike the reduction of the VAT on pig meat from Fidesz. And if we are to reduce VAT, we also need to reduce the tax content of public transport charges. This increases social and geographical mobility and would be a great help for commuting workers. All this requires a total transfer of approximately HUF 1500 billion in the budget, which can be easily ensured if the political will is in place. This is therefore the LMP programme package for the eradication of workers' poverty. But in a number of other areas, we would also differ significantly from the number and spirit of the budget presented by the government side. The country's biggest task, the elite's biggest debt, remains in the world of work, we must immediately begin to eradicate workers' poverty. The worst sectors are the social sphere, health care, civil servants, educators and educators. To give just one example: three quarters of social workers earn below the minimum living, public workers are even worse off, their wages are three quarters of the minimum wage. In the case of entrepreneurs, small businesses with low incomes belong to this category and two thirds of their revenues are taken by the NAV. Women are over-represented in poorly paid professions, showing another sad dimension to today's income conditions. It is also often impossible for women to lead their own lives by taking home much less than their male colleagues in the same position. Running education is our most important joint investment in the future of the country, the future of future generations. We can't just stand by and watch her be destroyed. In the field of public education, the most urgent is to settle the wages of staff directly assisting education and education. These are the nannys, pedagogical assistants, school secretaries, labists, administrators, librarians. Those without whom the institutions would certainly not work, yet they often take home the wage below the minimum wage. Another large area is higher education. There hasn't been a pay increase since 2008. Today, a young educator or researcher, as soon as he gets an opportunity in the marketplace, is likely to leave the cathedral. Although they do not earn minimum wage, young educators and researchers are well below average. The LMP wants to be taught by the best teachers and researchers in higher education, but this requires paid professionals. We expect high quality, but we can only imagine improving quality together with improving wage conditions. We must also remember those working in the public sector in cultural areas. Their situation is untenable, and they're entitled to a raise. Health care shows the problem of workers' poverty as litmus paper. It's where you see what happens when you starve whole trades. The exodus is coming and corruption is becoming common. The growing exodus of doctors and nurses has led the whole sector to collapse. The reason for emigration is the humiliatingly low wage, which has not once been raised by the latter governments to bring about a real change. It is not enough to throw a few thousand forints to the nurses, doctors, helpers as a result of the recent protests, the situation is much more serious than that. [[15.30]] The Hungarian health system needs not only to stop migration, but also to call home those working abroad; this can only be achieved by appropriate wages. The special consequence of employee poverty in health care is gratuity money, which makes both patients and healers vulnerable. As a specific form of corruption, it is in itself a serious barrier to the development of the system and disproportionately affects small-scale citizens. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] The LMP would expect the basic wage of healthcare workers to increase immediately by more than 60 per cent. At the same time as wage increases, there is a need to reduce the ever-increasing debt of institutions and the burden on workers. LMP aims to achieve fewer people by reducing daily health-damaging effects and by significantly strengthening screening programmes, patients should recover more quickly. In addition to the personal well-being of people, this also increases the revenue from the budget and reduces the cost of health care. Ladies and gentlemen, We also need to talk about rural development, but to have something to talk about, it would be a prerequisite not to depopulate entire settlements or districts because of low salaries and job shortages. In the countryside, incomes are significantly lower than in the capital, as well as in our larger cities: almost two and a half times the net income per capita in and around the capital, as in the poorest rural regions, in the eastern and northern part of the country. The very low purchasing power of the rural population is particularly affecting domestic agriculture and the food industry. If good quality crops or products could be sold locally, self-sustaining networks of the local economy could be built and the break-off would not continue. The reduction in VAT on foodstuffs that we are calling for would significantly cleanse the domestic meat and vegetable-fruit market. This would mean new jobs in agriculture in the medium term, while providing immediate relief to consumers. There is a clear link between the economic development and accessibility of areas, and this is also a condition for the development of rural tourism that creates jobs. Nevertheless, the Orbán government does not seek to improve access to small settlements, to renovate the side road network, but to build new motorways. The closure of the settlements could not be restored by improving public transport. Out of the 1332 kilometres of railway, which was closed under the Socialist Government, transport was restored at 385 kilometres, and only 11 of the 38 out of the abandoned railway lines were re-opened. It is also easy to see from the government's presentation that environmental protection, sustainability is a multifaceted aspect, rather a nuisance and a burden, while we are talking about the country's most important resources. It is a serious problem for employees of waste management companies that the majority of companies have become loss-making due to the reduction of their costs and increased central withdrawals. There has been no wage increase for years, with minimum wage or close employment. This includes the issue of energy poverty, where the payment of energy bills to more and more families is an unsolvable task or at least a serious problem; this mainly concerns unemployed people, small-time earners, single-seeker families, large families and pensioners. The antidote for energy poverty can be found in taking or extending measures such as the social firewood, the social tariff for fixed energy sources, and a complex building insulation and heating modernisation programme. Of course, this also requires budgetary resources and measures. Dear House, An approach that does not recognise the usefulness of tasks related to the protection of natural resources, the maintenance of ecosystem services or the maintenance of the flood protection system is fundamentally harmful. Substantial support for the development of the green economy is one of the most important challenges facing us today. To sum up, this budget is a budget for further demise, poverty and destitution. We need a radical change in the government's social and economic policies in order to have a chance for development; to talk about a prosperous economy on many legs and to create a more just society than today. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-27-73	Dear Parliament, We now have the first independent Member to make a statement. Therefore, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, who will give her speech on the pulpit.
u2015-05-27-74	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, said in his introduction that these are good times and that the budget for 2016 will be a budget for tax cuts. He also said that the budget benefits families, and that this is the budget of civil Hungary. However, I believe that this budget is not for the purpose of civilization of Hungary. When we discuss the fifth budget of the Orbán government, we need to remember for a moment the previous years: the government has withdrawn hundreds of billions from the education system, has taken huge amounts of our pension savings and government spending has increased enormously. If the directions so far have not changed, it is not good for us, but that the burning deficits remain with us, even though, if I understood the success reports correctly, there would be money for something else. The priorities of Viktor Orbán's cabinet this year again do not meet the real needs and needs of Hungary. The Prime Minister is the programme of the Castle, the stadium in all the villages, the Russian atom for our grandchildren, or the program of the service for everyone. The further extension of the public works programme is unnecessary and harmful, as Secretary of State Sándor Czomba himself talks about the need to decommission the programme. It is incomprehensible how another ten billion could come to this seriously flawed practice. The career model of civil servants is just a little more money for reduced rights. This isn't civilization. Mihály Varga was almost right in saying that this budget benefits families, but we can't say that it is, because the less a family earns, the less the tax is refunded by the state and the less the tax is paid. However, despite an increase of ten billion in the amount for children's meals, child poverty comes from the poverty of families. With freebies, the future of these children cannot be solved. This isn't civilization. The biggest problem of the family policy system in Orbán is that it distorts up: it supports those who already have it. However, it does not promote social mobility with good schools, good incentives and good support systems, so the barriers to civilization continue to grow in Hungary under the leadership of Viktor Orbán. There's no growing middle class, but there's a break, growing insecurity, and four million poor. If anything, this is the biggest failure of free Hungary. Next year's budget does not want to change that, there is no ambition in government policy to change this sad trend. However, Fidesz's close-by clientele: stadium, road and castle builders, monopoly energy and street lamp dealers, tobacco dealers, tradesmen, research institutes, government propaganda prices disguised as research institutions; they are the ones fed by this budget. So the Orbán system is not only a barrier to civilization, but also a deeply immoral, corrupt system. As a careful parent in a good family, it is not a question of what we do to benefit, even if they are scarce: for the education of our children, for the health of our parents, for home, for work. For the well-being of our children, we all wish: good school, good health, good work. As a careful parent, we don't build a football field for the head of the family at the end of the garden if we don't get our children to study, and we don't build a palace in the Castle if we can't provide proper health care for our sick loved ones. [[15.40]] A responsible politician knows perfectly well that it is impossible to save money in school and health. But this government, as an irresponsible parent, is ruining our children's future. Obviously, there is no national consultation on what people would spend if they could make a budget. I'll tell you what, because we asked them about health, school, business development, work. That's what people would spend on. I'm sure most people would like to sacrifice the Veritas History Forgery Institute or the National Tobacco Trading Corporation. state support, but even Europe's most incomprehensible 1% tax reduction in order to support hospitals, clinics, kindergartens, schools, colleges and universities. Ladies and gentlemen, When I studied this budget plan, I sought careful consideration of good parents, but I could not find it. The Orbán government will not spend any extra HUF on school, health or business development next year. My proposals therefore seek to compensate for the serious missteps that this government is taking. My amendment proposals, which I'm going to submit this week, tell me not only what you need more money for, but also where you need it from. What would I spend it on if I were the government? Above all, the foundation of the future, the protection of children, quality education for schools and all. To raise salaries for educators and educators. I pay particular attention to children who are struggling with some difficulties and who have been most affected by the educational transformations of recent years. After early development and the dissipation of pedagogical services and the reduction of resources, thousands of small children and their family remained among the greatest difficulties. The stability of the professionals and institutions that help them is crucial to civilisation. I would spend it to strengthen the autonomy, management and innovative power of universities that were set up and discouraged under the Orbán government. Without universities, there's no progress, no future, only a dumb-ass and a backward country. I would do this to make it a civilization. In recent years, the amount of money spent on education has increased everywhere in Eastern Europe, but it has decreased in Hungary. As early as 2011, we were last in the region, which the government still does not want to correct. How do we try to compete for jobs and investment if there are ever weaker schools in Hungary than our neighbours? Or do we really want to be a large Hungarian assembly workshop in the future? Health is another key issue in Hungary. We could also say that health care has been the worst patient in the country for years. Just go to a hospital: crumbling walls, waiting, overloaded workers welcome us. Skinned nurses and hospital staff, to whom we leave our lives, earn 80 to 100 thousand forints after decades of work, and few people can make a living out of the gratuity money. Most are struggling, doctors, nurses, nurses, paramedics, and, if possible, fleeing from humiliating circumstances abroad. On the other hand, the truth that pays gratuity money gets better care in the state system, and on the other hand, the one who doesn't know is on the edge of the system. We need to change it before the whole system crashes on us. Hospital debt needs to be stopped, and this requires both additional resources and structural reforms and the involvement of private capital. In fact, the government should finally solve the health reform that has been postponed for 20 years, but I see that there is neither ambition nor ability to do so. At least there's no sign of everything in this budget. Thirdly, a new policy needs to be opened in order to increase employment. Together, he developed a program called "Working and Managing," which will provide people with real solutions instead of a dead end. The essence of this is job-seeking insurance and contract-based cooperation support, which not only explores jobs for the unemployed, but also helps them to have knowledge and skills that they can really move on with. To be civilized. Finally, there is no violence in a good family. I could also say that where there's violence in the home walls, it's not a family, it's not a community of love. At least that's how I feel about family. It is time for Hungary to join the international standards adopted in a broad Europe, the Istanbul Convention, which undertakes to protect abused women and children from violence in a European way as a government. The cost of ratification of the Istanbul Convention is completely lacking from next year's budget, and I will also present an amendment to this. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the stability of the institutions, the proposed 700 billion-dollar transfer package will increase the salary of pedagogical staff by HUF 100 billion, the support of colleges and universities, and will provide 200 billion for raising the wages of general doctors, pediatricians and nurses, and 70 billion for paramedics. There's nothing more important than being safe in a crisis. There would be more money to protect children and help the poorest. To be civilized. Is there a source for all this? Of course there is. There is an amazing waste in Hungary in all areas where the Orbán government has set foot. Megalomán stadiums, gigs disguised as research institutes, the tragic public work programme and the Paks power plant are a major source for us. Civil Hungary will be if the government will help those who cannot overcome their own disadvantage from home. We don't move from one to two if we give more to those with wealth. Civilization will occur if more and more people live better lives. But there is no sign of this in the world of Viktor Orbán, and this budget does not lead to progress on the path of civilization. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-75	Dear Parliament, This is the next speech by the minority advocate invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, in a 20-minute time frame. In this sense, I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-05-27-76	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Vor ungefähr einemhalben Jahr habe ich meinen Diskussionsbeitrag bei dem Staatshaushaltsplan 2015. mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe begonnen. Er hat gesagt:,, Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muß zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. Mr President, this is the House! Nearly six months ago, in the 2015 budget debate, I began my speech with the following quote from Johann Wolfgang von Goethe:. The tolerance can only indicate a temporary state that should lead to recognition. Accepting is an insult in itself. * Let me explain Goethe's quote about nationalities. From the perspective of acceptance, tolerance from a nationality, it's like they just tolerate, tolerate their presence. For centuries, they have added their knowledge, their work, their talents to the prosperity of the country in which they lived, whose citizens they were. If necessary, they sacrificed their lives for it. For Hungary. So acceptance is not enough. Only acceptance in itself is an insult. We want more, we expect more. Appreciation. Our ancestors' lives provide a sufficient basis for recognition. We're still working on it. The condition of recognition, the basis of knowledge. Allow me to give you a summary overview of the most important areas of nationalities living in Hungary, primarily in relation to the draft law on the 2016 central budget. In this context, we need to talk about the 25 years before 2015, the positive breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act and, of course, the 2016 Central Budget Bill. [[15.50]] About the past. Myself and my fellow speakers in our comments on the 2015 central budget have already revealed in detail the unworthy and vulnerable situation of the nationalities living in Hungary over the last 25 years. It's just a reminder, headlines. 1. The operating and programme support of national minority NGOs until 2015 was 110 million HUF, which has not been increased since 2002, i.e. since 14 years. The valid proposals submitted to the Human Resources Support Manager each year showed that a fraction, some one-sixth of the legitimate subsidies requested, could only be judged because of a lack of resources. The 30 million HUF budget for minority mother tongue student camps was even more scarce, and it didn't really make sense to apply because of the lack of resources. 2. In 2008 the overall operating aid rate and the amount of it were frozen by introducing a shift to task-based support in the aid scheme of local and regional self-governments. On average, the operating support of municipal self-governments amounted to HUF 14 556 per month net. In addition, this was the average operating aid, the smaller national authorities received only a part of it, a net monthly HUF 9,000. This situation was already invaluable and could not be called "aid" with the best of intentions.3. In the case of national minority self-governments with very diverse and diverse tasks, changes in public finance legislation in 2008, further legislative changes in 2012 and then the general government and accounting changeover in 2014 continuously and permanently increased operating costs. However, support for national minority self-governments was minimal between 2008 and 2010 and has not increased at all in the last four budgetary years. The financing problems were already extremely tense. 4. The situation in the area of individual aid was mixed. On the one hand, several ethnic communities - Croatian, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Serbian - received regular support through the intergovernmental ethnic groups. At the same time, it was necessary to change the situation that this option did not exist systematically for the majority of nationalities in Hungary. To this end, it is urgently necessary to provide a separate resource, all the more so, as the number of national minority institutions adopted by national authorities has increased and increased considerably. However, for all the areas listed, the problem was not only that the amount of aid had not increased for 8-10-14 years, but that there was at least such a serious problem that they were deeply underfunded even at start-up. In this difficult situation, taking advantage of the new opportunities offered by the mandate of advocate, we have already surveyed and compiled the needs of Hungarian nationalities in relation to the 2015 central budget in the summer of 2014. Our proposals were sent to all the factions, professional wallets long before the draft budget was submitted. With months of continuous work, multi-stage coordination and a compromise opening, we reached a consensus-based, two billion forints package, which was considered professionally sound by the specialists, supported by all parliamentary factions, independent representatives, of course the government, and unanimously accepted by the Hungarian Parliament. This was a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift, and a milestone in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics because of the following. On the one hand, after 25 years, the previous Parliament ensured the parliamentary representation of nationalities in Hungary, which is why we have the opportunity to express our views. On the other hand, in 2013, significant progress has been made towards the expansion of cultural autonomy by extending the legal possibilities for national minority self-government reservations or ownership of national minority institutions and by substantially increasing and making normative the operational support of the receiving national minority public education institutions. Thirdly, with the two billion HUF increase in 2015 mentioned above, the new Hungarian Parliament gave weight and gave credibility to the institution of ethnic advocates, which meant that Hungarian politics really means the presence and role of Hungarian ethnic minorities in the Parliament, and finally considers us to be an equal partner. This must be assessed as a huge, positive change. In hindsight, to be honest, I have to say that I have always been aware that the first move from so-called zero was expected for the spokespersons in the 2015 budget, and for me it was more of a question, but not an incidental one. The main question, however, was what will be in 2016, as it really determines the rest. Therefore, already in January 2015, we evaluated the experiences of the preparation, conciliation and decision process of the 2015 budget with spokespersons and national presidents, and we started preparing and compiling the 2016 budget needs. We have done this for good reason because the most important experience of the 2015 Finance Act has been that it takes a very long time to answer strategic questions even in the case of continuous and professional work, to give concrete, substantiated support to legitimate needs, to conduct professional and political discussions in a number of stages. One of the key strategic issues was to try to achieve additional resources from national, so-called big hats on the sources of funding from the nationalities living in Hungary, or to create or raise separate frameworks that are only available or not yet in place for the nationalities living in Hungary. Both of them had a lot of arguments and arguments. For the sake of clarity, I refer to the state of support for ethnic associations, cultural programmes and native language student camps as a concrete example. As I said earlier, there has not been a single forint increase in these areas in 14 years, and the original framework has been set deep under legitimate demands. It was therefore perfectly understandable that, at the launch of the 2015 budget negotiations, the increase in aid in this area was a priority. At the first meeting with the NGM, however, the Secretary of State responsible for public finances opened by saying that if the 2015 Central Budget Act contains an increase in some areas compared to the 2014 base, we should not put forward any other similar need for an increase because it is not supported by the government in any way. In other words, since the National Cooperation Fund's funding framework has been increased from 3.1 billion to some HUF 5.2 billion, and although the Hungarian nationalities can apply to a limited extent, it is not possible to increase the so-called EMET nationalities framework in the management of EMMI. We also knew that from the HUF 2.1 billion increase, the nationalities in Hungary are expected to receive a minimum amount due to the discriminatory calls for tender for us, but since we have not yet been able to support this with concrete data, we had to accept the State Secretary's argument. In only one area, at the smallest 30 million native school camps, we insisted on a threefold increase, which was accepted by the government and Parliament. In the first quarter of this year, we first heard the Deputy Director-General of the Competition Manager and then the CEO of the National Cooperation Fund on the use of the EMET ethnic framework. We have evaluated the tender data in detail, the calls for proposals, we have asked for their personal views on our future options, and on the basis of these, we have decided that in the future we will focus mainly on the creation and increase of the tender and financial resources available only to the nationalities living in Hungary. [[16.00]] Of course, we also agreed with the 13 national minority self-governments, and the decision was taken in full agreement with them. This decision was later agreed by both the wallets and the factions. At this stage of preparation, the news published in April 2015, i.e. bringing forward the adoption of the 2016 Finance Act for the spring session, of course, caught us off guard, but not unprepared. Within a short period of two weeks, we have prepared our 2016 needs agreed with the national presidents, and we have started the conciliation process with various detailed backgrounds that justify and justify their justification. It was a significant help and considerable relief in the conciliation process of the 2016 budget that, in the course of the 2015 budget conciliation negotiations, the direct structural and personal relations with the relevant wallets, with all parliamentary factions, had already been identified and developed in the autumn of 2014, which allowed the negotiations to become significantly faster and more effective. This combined resulted in the extremely serious further success that the government had hoped for by a few on 13 May 2015 at T/4730. The 2016 central budget bill submitted to Parliament contains a further significant increase on nationalities living in Hungary compared to the 2015 base, with a total increase of HUF 2 billion and HUF 63.4 million. In addition to the fact and extent of the increase, I also find it indicative that the government has already included national needs in its own proposal and has thus submitted them to Parliament. Thank you for that. In the same way, I think it is important to say that the increases in support in the Government's proposal have, of course, already been agreed in advance with all opposition parliamentary groups and with independent representatives, who have also given their unanimous support to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for that, too. The budgetary increases in 2016 essentially cover three large areas. First, the threefold increase in the already mentioned separate minority civil application frameworks - civil society associations, cultural programmes, native language student camps, ethnic education and further education - amounts to HUF 640 million. To increase the funding to national theaters by HUF 100 million, and to support the operation of small-scale ethnic public education institutions, a new framework will be created by HUF 80 million, with a total increase of HUF 820 million. The second significant increase in support is the increase in the overall operating support of local, local and regional national authorities by HUF 784.2 million. In this way, taking into account the 2015 increase, we will achieve the dual objective of threefold increase in previous operating aid and, on the other hand, the ratio of operating aid and task-based aid will be adjusted from one to the other from 1/2 to one. Thirdly, we also consider it a significant increase that the investment and renovation of national minority institutions maintained by national minority institutions will be increased to HUF 882.4 million in 2016 by a total of 441.2 million. The smallest part of the overall increase of HUF 2 billion 63.4 million was the increase of HUF 18 million in support of the National Polish Municipality in 2015. All these extremely joyful changes, of course, do not mean that, after decades of demise, all ethnic problems have been solved in a single blow. There remain financing problems, occasional imbalances, which we must continue to work on to solve and coordinate. But such a problem is, for example, that after 2011 there were repeated redundancies and outsourcings at MTVA in the field of ethnic media. Today's state of affairs is a low point, and the current situation of national minority media at MTVA is unacceptable in all respects to advocates, as well as national minority self-governments. I would also like to highlight the funding, management, education and quality of hundreds of ethnic educational institutions operating in the maintenance of the KLIK, and the other related package of tasks, which will clearly be the number one priority and must enjoy in the 2017 and 2018 budgetary laws. In addition to all these tasks, I am convinced that the moment has finally come when we must thank the Hungarian Government and Parliament without reservation, putting aside all the problems, tasks and tensions that still exist. What has happened in the last six months in the central budget laws of 2015 and 2016 is almost unprecedented. With these two parliamentary decisions, the support of 13 nationalities living in Hungary could be increased to more than HUF 8 billion. It can be said without exaggeration that this is a positive change to the extent that has not been seen in Hungarian politics in relation to nationalities living in Hungary in the last hundred years. Finally, we really feel the respect that Goethe lacks. Thank you very much. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Jetzt fühlen wir wirklich die durch Goethe auch vermisste Anerkennung! Danke schön! Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-77	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will continue our work with the speakers who have signed up in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-27-78	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, If someone took the time to listen to this really long, ministerial exposition, budgetary councilman, state auditor, group leader, then he could see that the speeches he spoke were actually not at all in a thank-you relationship. Opposition speeches could have been heard during the budgets of the biggest financial crisis. They have completely ignored the data that not only the Hungarian Statistical Office, but Eurostat have confirmed several times, and have completely ignored the performance that has been achieved not only by the government or parliament, but by all the Hungarian nation over the past period, which may include data that they simply ignore in the budget. The right of their hearts, of course. After all, why not say with elegance that the situation in employment is dramatic when, by the way, we ignore the figure that there were 3.7 million people employed in 2010 and now 4 million 150 thousand. And this includes items that are included in the current budget. The opposition speakers, who were so concerned about jobs, completely ignored the fact that the job protection action plan announced by the Orbán government at the time, and who have been in the budget at around HUF 300 billion ever since, is still in the budget, thus protecting the jobs of 900,000 people. In fact, every year we move forward a little, but that did not bother opposition speakers, by the way. For example, it has not been mentioned that, in this budget, we are now extending the action plan for job protection to the agricultural sector. [[16.10]] While they kept talking about the situation in health and education, they generously forgot or did not mention, for example, that this budget is not simply a budget for tax cuts, we could safely say that in the budget of career models, because we introduced a career model in the entire education system, and in this budget the financial basis for continuing the career model is included, which is otherwise intended to increase by 50% in the entire education sector by 2018. If we add to what has not been mentioned at all, how the inflation environment has changed, how there is essentially no inflation environment compared to the 2008 '09 '10's, so there is minimal inflation, then this is essentially real wages. Especially if we add that personal income tax is also constantly decreasing and we want to continue to reduce, then it really makes life easier for those working in this sector. They just forgot about that. They have forgotten that in this budget we are also setting new careers, as military service providers can build a completely new career model in this budget: we have adopted the model of a military career, the new rules that define it, and the figures in the budget are here. We have received it from the opposition at the time of this debate in Parliament: oh, we will believe when we see the figures in the budget! It's nice, it's nice, but it's juicy, when the numbers...! Here are the numbers, no one said we're apologizing to the ruling parties because they're right, and we weren't maliciously speaking about reality, simply because they assumed things that weren't going to be true. We told you that anyway. Of course, I do not think that any opposition would bother to say that, yes, we were wrong, that the parties of the government are right. This is not what I want; let us only make it factually clear that what has been generously overlooked by the opposition is the military career model and the numbers that underpin it in the budget. Only in the defense budget is nearly HUF 50 billion more than in the previous year. Thanks not only to the career model, but also to the fact that the government wants to keep another promise, which we confirmed again at the NATO summit in Wales, namely that the military budget is constantly increased in proportion to GDP. This was also lied to by the opposition, and now, when the reality is that this promise is there, they will also ignore it. But the career model of law enforcement and law enforcement workers is also included in this budget. So it's not just the police, the emergency services, the others who are subject to this career model that are better off, and on average, their salary increases by 30 percent. This was simply said to be a dramatic situation in the area of real incomes. They also did not mention that last year - now we see the figures - real wages have risen. So that means that, on average, there is a rise in real wages of more than 4 per cent, that is how people get better positions, who, by the way, are working more and more. Compared to this, this year's budget - the budget figures clearly show - there is at least a 2.5 percent increase in real wages, otherwise this is the most pessimist calculation, which again means that people's lives are improving. If we add that, by the way, we are trying to help those who are building the future - now the extended tax relief is very helpful to families with two children - then there is actually a picture that I said that there are no budget-related speeches that we are trying to draw up on the basis of the data, based on the number of budgets, a kind of picture of what we are planning for the country, for the Hungarian community in the coming years and with an outlook, and the opposition speeches that are commenting on this are primarily in the production of soloflowers and are generous in handling the facts; the intrusive multitude of facts and figures do not interfere with their insight at all in any field. If we look at the budget's appropriations, its titles, its main lines, then we see that there is no area of the budget at all that would receive less appropriations than last year. [[Dr. László Varga: Yes, the municipalities!]] It follows from this that, with zero inflation environments, no one's position will deteriorate, but in many areas it will improve. When they say stadiums in each village and say that the government wants to turn the country into a assembly plant, they generously overlook the fact that one of the largest scientific and technical investments is being made in Szeged, the laser center, financed by the government and the budget, which creates a European-scale scientific and research potential. It doesn't exist for them. Efforts to strengthen R &amp; D, university and higher education research programmes will be overlooked. They don't know, they don't want to know about the programs that exactly serve to call home the best Hungarian researchers, this program of the Academy of Sciences, which is supported by the budget, it's in the numbers, you just have to be able to read it. It is precisely because it is not the assembly that boosts the Hungarian economy, because we know that the Audi are, of course, being assembled in Hungary, but the research and development department of the Audi, which is developed and built in Győr, is a huge boost, by the way. They do not take into account that Hungarian pharmaceutical manufacturing is not simply assembly - if any medicine can be assembled, let's say it can be put together - but it is based on a development programme on which Hungarian pharmaceutical production is minimally competitive in Europe, but rather globally, which is implemented through huge and otherwise government-supported programs. Overall, it must be said that this budget, in addition to achieving a very important thing, has reduced taxes, which, after all, has a longing and beloved program for the Hungarians, contains a series of forward-looking directions on which I am only sorry that the opposition refuses to acknowledge this. But it doesn't matter, because we don't want to please the opposition, but we want to win the Hungarian electorate, which we have succeeded so far, and we hope that this budget will continue to succeed. It's for the good of the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[András Tállai: Bravo! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-79	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Tóth, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-27-80	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The introduction of a general justification for the submitted budget law is as if it were about a success story, as if an economic miracle had occurred in the country. This tells us that according to the government Hungary is doing better today, the government saved the country, and after two years the consolidation took a growth turn in 2014 and 15 years, and the 2016 budget will be the budget of a new era. On the other hand, the government's bad economic policy since 2010 has resulted in a significant lag compared to the countries of the region, and the improvement in public finances is only apparent and the government's public debt has actually increased. The Hungarian economy seemed to expand last year compared to the stagnation and even recession of previous years, with this growth, the Hungarian economy was once again on the path of catching up with the European Union. Unfortunately, however, only for one year. Last year's rise in the economy was based on a concentrated influx of EU funds. Due to the government's policy of violating EU rules, as well as the failure of the organisations responsible for the allocation of development resources and the management of projects, the organisations concerned in Hungary were in such a significant delay in drawing funds that the government was in a hurry to minimise losses in mid-2013. As a result, almost one third of the seven-year financial envelope was published in 2014 in the economy, generating significant growth in investment activity and construction, and industrial production also increased significantly with the completion of a phase of major investment in the automotive industry. [[16.20]] The government expects economic growth to continue to be pushed up by the inflow of EU funds. They expect increased employment, although they no longer talk about one million new jobs, they expect a further increase in household consumption, with rising real wages. They expect an increase in the inflow of working capital, resulting in an increase in investment. According to the bill, the personal income tax rate would decrease from 16 percent in 2016 to 15 percent, which does not reduce anything overall, but represents a loss of HUF 120 billion from the budget. In addition to optimistic macroeconomic assumptions, the 2016 budget also anticipates significant austerity and a year of social conflict, because public spending is not changing in the right direction in 2016. The bill shows that the state's operating costs continue to increase, welfare expenditure stagnates, and economic spending is falling significantly. The total revenue and expenditure of the 2016 budget will be lower than in 2015. They are rising below inflation, i.e. pension and social expenditure are falling in real terms. The economic expenditure of public finances is falling almost all the way, as EU subsidies are temporarily falling in 2016, and from road construction to environmental protection almost exclusively from Brussels funds in Hungary in recent years. Of course, there are also expenditure items that increase significantly. The government spends significantly more on itself: the state organization gets 100, the defence gets 45, and the police get 106 billion forints more. Let's see what next year's budget brings to the economy. According to the preliminary announcements, the government submitted a draft budget with a deficit of 2 per cent, inflation of 1.6 per cent and economic growth of 2.5 per cent. At present, corporate tax would not be single-key next year, large companies would continue to pay 19 percent tax on profits above 500 million, while small and medium-sized companies would still have a 10% burden. The increase in gambling concession fees is also provided for in next year's budget bill, which is equivalent to the planned inflation rate of 1.6 per cent. In 2016 it plans to receive HUF 4.2 billion from the gambling concession fees in the same way as in 2015. The estimate of the toy tax was HUF 41.2 billion, which was higher than HUF 39.9 billion this year. This is a growing direction, but it is still far from the 2010 level when the toy tax deposit was HUF 62.5 billion. However, the draft increase in the concession fee does not affect the parties concerned in particular as the concession fee may be deducted from the toy tax. The planned budget revenue for 2016 under the simplified business tax is HUF 83.8 billion, this revenue is HUF 8.6 billion and 10 percent less than this year. The government has virtually failed in terms of the specific tax on small-scale companies and the small-scale tax. Earlier, it was said that the number of voters of new business taxes could reach 500 000, but this was not the case. For kata, the target amount is HUF 70.1 billion in 2016 compared to HUF 56.3 billion in 2015, but for kava it is only HUF 13.8 billion in 2016 compared to HUF 16.4 billion in 2015. The biggest problem is the unpredictable economic policy, the result of which is that as many companies in the country have never been destroyed as last year. This year, in the first 3 months of the year, 12,618 companies were cancelled, which was 36 percent more than in the same period of the previous year. Since the beginning of 2014, the number of company cancellations has increased from quarter to quarter to break new records. If the trend continues, the number of companies that will disappear will rise to over 50,000 in 2015. One of the biggest problems of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary is the narrow market opportunity, with a direct consequence of which the unenhanced development and the increased competitive disadvantage. The year 2015 did not provide an adequate basis for solving the problems of SMEs and did not help the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The business environment is driven by high administrative burdens, unpredictable regulation and moderate competition in the economy. The government, as set out in next year's budget bill, is obviously following its fundamentally failing economic policy. It will obtain the necessary resources through unorthodox solutions, for example through drastic changes in ownership conditions to arbitrary legislation that excludes social expression and without international standards. Dear Parliament, Each year, the European Commission evaluates the Member States' stability and convergence programmes and makes country-specific recommendations, which will be approved by the European Council, so that Member States can start finalising their planned budgets for the following year with policy advice from the Union. However, the government still seems to be ignoring the Commission's criticisms and recommendations. Let us see what country-specific proposals the European Commission has put forward for Hungary this year! Among other things, the Recommendation draws the government's attention to taking action to restore normal lending to the real economy, remove barriers to market-based portfolio cleaning and significantly reduce the risks associated with obligations arising from increased public ownership in the banking sector. For years, it has been a recurring proposal to reduce distortions in sectoral special taxes, to remove unjustified barriers to entry into the market in the service sector, including the retail sector. Reduce the tax wedge on low-income workers and shift the tax burden to less growth-distorting areas. Continue the fight against tax fraud and further develop the framework for combating corruption. Strengthen the structures of the public procurement system that encourage competition and promote transparency, which, given the experience of domestic procurement procedures, would be particularly important. It draws attention to the fact that the government transfers budget resources for the public works programme to the benefit of the active labour market. On the other hand, we see that this year, instead of HUF 270 billion, it spends HUF 340 billion on public employment and wants to increase the number of public employees by 40,000. With the nearly 200,000 public workers, the government wants to fulfill its promise of new jobs, and it also reduces the employment potential. It also proposes to increase the participation of disadvantaged groups, in particular Roma, in host mainstream education and to improve the quality of support for these groups through targeted teacher training, to strengthen the transition between different stages of education and to the world of work. The submitted budget proposal does not take into account the EU's recommendations, despite the importance of Community funds for Hungary. The 2016 budget bill cannot be supported by the MSZP fraction, inter alia, for these reasons. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-27-81	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Firtl Mátyás, Member of the KDNP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-82	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The conclusion of the alliance of KDNP and Fidesz has been crucial in shaping the country's fate since the 2010 election. This cooperation is the most successful construction of Hungary and the Union. I am convinced that the principles, the implementation and implementation of the values are largely included in Hungary's achievements so far, and this can be further completed in the 2016 budget. The foundations of our system of consciousness are the most solid in existence, and we therefore enforce these principles in determining a budget that assumes a stable financial background and a predictable legal order. Therefore, what is needed is a good and solid basis for strengthening families, for the establishment and continuation of a budget that results in economic growth. [[16.30]] We have successfully added value to the successful federal policy of Fidesz-KDNP over the last five years, which is the basis of our ideas; Christian values, which are a solid basis, must be strengthened based on individual responsibility, based on work, with a just social sensitivity, with the goal of nation-building. We consider the national feeling important and positive by viewing a strong family as the basis of the future. This European and Hungarian position is also a mission, as expressed by the tireless pioneers of European unity, the Christian democracy and the Christian democrats of a united Europe. This European and Hungarian position is also a mission, as Robert Schuman, the tireless pioneer of European unity, said that European democracy will be either Christian or not. Therefore, KDNP is firmly in favour of families. The 2016 budget will also be a budget for families. During the MSZP administration, they turned their backs on families, always the families that raised children pulled the short straw, poored them, indebted them. At the time, the current double was personal income tax, the family tax allowance for one or two children was taken away, the preferential housing loans were abolished. Several opposition parties today would still prefer to tax families rather than the extra-profit sectors. In contrast, along with Fidesz, KDNP strives to keep more money in the register of families. Next year, we will spend almost 40 percent more on family support than in 2010, which means an overall surplus of about HUF 1000 billion for families. A significant increase in work-based family support, an increase in family tax relief and a marriage tax reduction should be highlighted. These are not only to be supported by the KDNP, but also to coincide with the most fundamental Christian Democratic thought system: support for families, protection of values, the idea of social justice, the creation of the common good, strengthening national identity. The budget serves the strengthening of families, the strengthening of communities, the further strengthening and the rise of Hungary. A strong nation means strong communities, strong families, a strong economy and a Hungarian with faith in the future. We therefore support, help and implement the budget for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Fidesz-KDNP continues to support families. In recent years, with the single-key income tax and family tax benefits, the total amount of HUF 3600 billion will remain with the families next year. Mothers and fathers who are raising children at work should be valued. That is why we have introduced the family tax system, which provides them with a low tax rate and tax relief. Next year, family tax relief for families with two children will increase, leaving over 350,000 families with more money. From 2016 to four years, the tax relief of parents who have two children will be doubled to HUF 20,000, next year it will be HUF 12 500 per child per month. Next year, the key to personal income tax will be reduced from 16 to 15 percent, which means tax reductions for 4 million people, amounting to a total of HUF 120 billion. I would like to note here that the Member before me is complaining that this 120 billion is going to be missing from the budget, and he does not notice that this is really going to stay with the families. With the reduction of hers and the increase of the family tax allowance, a family with two minimum wage earners, two parents with children, up to 7,100 per month, a family with two average earners, and a family with two children stays at HUF 9,500 per month next year. With a tax reduction for small earners, about 110,000 families with the lowest income are guaranteed to have virtually their gross salary in their pockets. The marriage tax reduction continues, the child extra, the family home-building discount is available from July, and the support for free children's meals is increased from HUF 58 to HUF 70 billion. The measures and plans for families in the next year's budget: they represent security, stability and predictability for all Hungarians, and especially for families. The burden of honest work is reduced by the government. Reducing personal income tax from 16% to 15% is one of the most important reductions in burdens. The Cabinet intends to reduce income tax and make it possible to reduce personal income tax to one-digit in the long term. At present, the tax on consumption still needs to be maintained. In our view, this model is fairer because the taxation of income affects everyone, but consumption varies individually. At the same time, the government wants to help in this area, especially by reducing the burden on food. This process began with the reduction of half-carcase VAT, and now it continues with the reduction of the sales tax on pigmeat from 27% to 5%. Families spend a total of 130 billion forints on pork, i.e. the government's current measure represents 20-25 billion forints of help to people. It is necessary to consider which foods may subsequently be extended the VAT rate of 5%. It is also important to make it easier to reduce people's spending by HUF 10 billion, which is part of the Cabinet's long-term administrative reduction programme. Fidesz-KDNP is on the side of families, and unlike the former socialist governments, it does not think in austerity packages. Ladies and gentlemen, 2016 Széchenyi Memorial Year. There is no way to bypass the great idea of Széchenyi - who had made my constituency his home - in this respect:. Many people think that Hungary was, I would like to believe that there will be. When, with our cities, the government signs one by one the best contracts of the newest history of cities for development and growth, this conviction is reflected in our common policy. We believe that we are promoting, serving and creating Hungary's future. In the 2016 budget, the spirit of the high-form statesman and committed Christian politician István Széchenyi should guide us: yes, we must believe that Hungary will. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the statements made in the 2016 budget and will try to achieve, as far as possible, what has been formulated in this context. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-83	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-27-84	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Before I begin my written comment, let me respond to the solo in front of me, and let me respond in a sentence or two to what he said. He said that this budget reflects Christian values and social sensitivity. I very much hope that this parliamentary mediation is monitored in some way by Andy Vajna, monitoring and scraping a tear in the corner of his eye when he thought of the big word that he was also supported by the government, winning a market of about 200 billion dollars with the possibility of organizing online gambling. In addition, on top of that, we can only mention the five small casinos that you have won, and, as has been said above, you have received the little gift from the socially sensitive government that you can deduct the concession fee from the toy tax. That's a big word. But just think, if the Hungarian government had received the gift that Andy Vajna has received in recent years, and he would have received it again this year, he would have spent only one tenth of it on the social sector, on the workers working in the social sector, what kind of wage development could have been achieved? [[16.40]] Unfortunately, this could not have happened, so I think that in the area of social sensitivity a little bit more needs to be improved and polished, my dear fellow Member Mátyás Firtl. But back to what this budget contains. We have just heard from our fellow Member Kósa that what the budget is all about is in the figures, and it just needs to be read out. With all due respect, this is what I did, and this is what I can tell you. What can be read out of the figures is, on the one hand, pennies as regards the financing of public services, but on the other hand, a very surprising generosity - not to say spending - in relation to the government's household fund. We did an interesting quick survey to look at Annex 1 to the budget, i.e. the table, and the chapter's general reserves of the chapters in it, as well as the chapter's stability reserves, and a very small part of the expenditure in rem, as well as other extremely generous, at the same time harmful investments that we are debating, this is about HUF 450 billion that the government can, we can say, spend at its own convenience. And I must add that this does not include the National Security Fund, before any of you accuses us of thinking of something that is otherwise prohibited by the law, so that we want to use the general reserve framework and thus endanger Hungary's stability. But what's with all the pennies I think it is? Turning to the municipal chapter, the contents of Annexes 2 and 3, we have to say in general that already in 2015 the government has been very close to the system of task financing, counting HUF 649 billion in 2015, but in 2016 we see only 0.6 percent expansion here, although we know that public services provided by local authorities are one of the most important elements of people's sense of comfort and the most important public services that basically help families. Here, for example, are the funds that can be used immediately for the operation of settlements, of which 42 items are the same as before, only another 9 of which are changing, but overall we have to say that the total amount of money spent is reduced by 3.1 billion. At the same time, the government spends 2 percent more on cultural tasks, which is a very big word, and we are already slightly above the official inflation rate. However, it is surprising that the support of theatre, dance and music organizations, regardless of the national category, is now included in only three packages in Annex 2, and we know that the Aht. It will also change in this respect, but I think that this is a cheap conflict avoidance on the part of the government on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it will obviously be decided in a government decree later on to support individual organisations, which tells me that, obviously, pets will be better off here. Financial social benefits, i.e., in a sense, aid, have been allocated by the government for another 25 billion this year. Now, next year, only 1 billion will be spent. We know that this is also because in many respects the tasks have been rearranged by the government, so that from the municipalities the task was transferred to the districts. However, we also know that in many cases those who need certain types of benefits and ask for benefits will not go to the district, but there, the municipality will continue to ask for the possibility of various municipal subsidies. Therefore, it is not possible to withdraw entirely from this sphere to the State without helping the municipalities. For a small settlement, a small settlement of 3 000 - we can say that this is the average in Hungary - I looked at the budget for next year, so what this means in advance. Only in this area, in the case of a settlement with a total amount of 175 million, this will mean a loss of HUF 8 million, and it will not be compensated by any kind of district relief system. We know that this is happening now, and it will continue to happen in the future. Extremely irresponsible, we understand, on the part of the government, to transform the aid system to this effect, and I must add it right now, because you say that most of these forms of aid will be launched through the National Employment Fund into the Start work programmes. Last year you spent 235 billion forints on this, this year 270 billion forints, and next year, look at 340 billion forints. It really is a fantastic rise. A small problem, a small flaw in beauty, is that, at the same time, when we ask the municipalities how many public workers there are now, how many they have requested this year, how many public workers they want to work with, we have to see that they have received, as a possibility, much less from the individual district employment offices than the municipalities would have asked. Not to mention the fact that, indeed, the self-power and the mandatory self-power - which must be added to the personal and material expenses - have increased this year. So I think that, despite the increase in these budget lines in front of us at such a spectacular and extraordinary pace, in fact, the money you spend for this purpose is far from what you sell here at the title of visual politics. I think that there may be a lot of statistical feats on this issue, but it is certain that employment of this kind will not grow at the rate that you are banging on your breasts. But let's go on to another, next very important question, this is the problem of eating children, which has also been said a lot in the House, and there is an incredible amount of sliding. It is said that this item will grow from 58 billion to 71 billion, and now 90 percent of children can use it. Yes, only in order for 90 percent of children to make use of it, it would not be that much, 13 billion, but at least 20 billion, and to add that you will also lose 3 billion forints for the summer meal. You won't have the money you need to do your job. Where are the background studies that prove to us that this money is sufficient? I've never seen anything like it. Every time we asked for it, we never got it. It follows to me that you will show me the menu, the menu that you will be preparing for the children. I fear that, as I have said before, there will be scrambled soup without salt every day, because there is nothing else to farm with this money. Or do they expect the local authorities to collect this from the local population with the municipal tax? That's a very crooked way of thinking, I think. Now, let's get to social sensitivity for one more sentence. Instead of increasing from HUF 6.6 billion this year, the social sector bonus is falling to 5.9 billion. So much for the social sensitivity of the government. And let me tell you one more very important thing, and this is HUF 20 billion intended to compensate public sector employees. Please respectfully, we know very well what this is about. This year, government officials transferred from the municipalities to the district were victims of a very harsh austerity. There were those who lost 20-30 or even 40 percent of their own salary, since the hijacking was lifted from the pay sign. Now this will be returned in June of the following year, and that is why the government has this great pride, and in fact it is just a austerity. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-85	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-27-86	Thank you, Mr. President. So that we don't just have to tell each other what we have to say next to each other, you'd be lucky to have a little debate. That is why I would like to respond to some of the comments made by Mr Kósa and Mr Firtl. Congressman Kósa said that he felt that there were different, contradictory comments. Yeah, it does look like we're talking about two budgets. It seems to me that you are not really aware of the state of the country, as if you were living in a glass bubble, and you think that the average you are talking about here, that there was some real wage rise, it affects people equally. The average is very much a cover-up for extremes. You have to go to the countryside, you have to go near those people, the nearly 4 million people who live below the minimum living standards, who do not have enough resources for their daily living - many of them, families. [[16.50]] The trend is the same in Hungary, the international trend is that the percentage that has more and more is shrinking, and more and more have less and less. That should be changed, and the amounts you are talking about will not change that. Mr Kósa also said very proudly that next year in the budget there will be no less than what they have received this year. This is easy to say when, over the years, hundreds of billions of people from education, culture, social territory were withdrawn when these sectors were on a ventilator! Let's check the hospitals. They can't pay their debts. You can't be proud of the same level you're getting this year. And it's just very shady. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that, for example, municipalities will receive 12 billion more next year. We have to compare it. A Városliget project costs 150 billion - you have to look at its proportions!
u2015-05-27-87	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no one from the other factions has made a further two-minute speech, we will now continue with the pre-notification speeches in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, There's something charming about what was said on this day. I would like to recall only one part of the time when the President of Jobbik supported the LMP and later the LMP supported the proposals of the MSZP in this debate. We've been hearing practically a political lounge all day, which, let's be honest, has nothing to do with this budget. There could not have been a debate on merit, and there is a very serious reason for that. Since 2010, although you have had the opportunity, you have always failed to support these budget proposals, even though the budget proposals highlighted this country with the work of the Hungarian people from the huge chaos in which the socialists left Hungary. Let's remember what it would've been like if this hadn't gone on. But don't even remember. Look at the news, and listen to what is happening in Greece, what is happening in that country that was in a similar place from an economic point of view after the 2008 crisis as Hungary! Hungary has left the circle, and there has been a change of budgetary philosophy, the most important elements of which have been heard several times today, but it will not be harmful if we say it again and mention it again. With regard to the 2016 budget, it is important to say that the deficit is HUF 15 789 billion with HUF 564 million and HUF 16 551 billion with HUF 199 million. This accounts for a total deficit of 2 per cent with an increase in GDP of 2.5 per cent. Next year's inflation plan is 1.6 per cent and the reduction in government debt is expected to reach 73,3% on 31 December 2016. Let us also say a few sentences about the fact that in 2008, in 2009, the opposition at that time kept saying that the budget could not be implemented. In the bench you called the pro-government benches at the time, you said that this budget could be implemented. We all know that these budgets were rebutted by life on 1 January after the adoption of 31 December, and remember how many times in 2009 and 2010 we had to change budgets. This year - and these are already facts, honourable Members - we have come to the conclusion that the 2016 budget can be planned even in May and that debt reduction and tax reduction can be foreseen by 2016. Three words can be said in relation to the budget, which could not be taken out of the sentences of the previous speakers. The first is to be reliable, the second to be predictable, and the third to be implemented. The budget is about these three words, which in any case indicates that since 2010, there has been a government with the help of people that has created reliable, predictable and enforceable budgets. No opposition speaker could agree that last year's budget or the draft budget could not be implemented, reliable and predictable. The opinions of the Budget Council and the State Audit Office, with the exception of a few points, say that the 2016 budget is enforceable, reliable and predictable. I think one of the greatest achievements of this budget is that it has been able to keep budget deficits below 3 per cent for its third year. This is extremely important for two reasons. On the one hand, we have been rid of the excessive deficit procedure, which has been on our backs for nine years as a terror, and remember that if the government hadn't taken this step, we would have been punished by withdrawing EU funds. But even more importantly, if the budget deficit can be kept below 3 per cent, then the country's budget can be financed, then the interest burden and capital expenditure are to the extent that it can be financed. Of course, this also required a monetary policy that laid the foundations for this, and here we can also refer to the husband of the non-present Congresswoman Zsuzsa Szelényi, to whom we could not discuss this at the time of her blessed activity, because remember that in 2008-9 the country's budget calculated a deficit of around 9 percent. The performance of the economy has been heard several times, and today not only we say it, but also foreign analysts, that the situation of the Hungarian economy is good and good in comparison with the EU. This will move us to finance public debt. The performance of the Hungarian people is that the financing of public debt can now be managed from internal sources. This is a result that I think we have achieved together, and we should rather be happy about it, and we should not be constantly blowing and opposing the opposition. It has also been said in a large part of today's comments that either they do not want it or they cannot see that there has been a change in tax philosophy in the Hungarian economy and fiscal policy. We have shifted from income taxation to consumption-type taxation. One important result of this change in tax philosophy is that 16 percent of personal income tax can be reduced by 1 percent. There have been several criticisms here. Indeed, it can be said that this is not enough. I think in the next few years' budgets, this decline will be continuous, and we hope to achieve one-digit personal income tax as quickly as possible. From then on, however, it is very interesting to talk about the fact that people who earn more money through consumption pay more types of consumption taxes into the state budget, and the proportions that you say are unfair are changing, and they become just, because those who earn more and consume more are paying more taxes to the budget. [[17.00]] I think there have been a number of questions. Mr Burány, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has declared next year's budget a hit-and-run. I'd rather say another thing about transport to you. You keep saying something's wrong, but it's like hearing the news on the highway that someone's going against traffic, and the man who goes against traffic and listens to the radio, he says, "What's one?" Well, all of them. You are facing traffic, my fellow Members, you do not understand these processes. Mr Rogan, Head of Group, Mr Burány, said that the minimum wage rose by 1 percent net between 2002 and 2010, and since then it has increased by 5.6 percent between 2010 and 15 percent. Mr Burány did not understand this, although the net means that any amount already exempt from public burdens and taxes, the net and the net, cannot be distinguished in this way. And what you think about the increase in the minimum wage is a good indication that Member Burány was wrong about the net minimum wage, too, but you are mistaken about minimum wage because, in addition to the fact that there were minimum wagers held by the employer at the minimum wage, precisely because of the height of public burdens, there were undertakings who had a premeditated intention to keep themselves at the minimum wage. So the issue of income tax linked to the minimum wage is, I think, in any case, also contributing to the whitening of the grey economy. In May 2015, the Hungarian Parliament came to the point where it could prepare the 2016 budget. This has not been the case in recent years. This also shows the opportunity that the government and the people working in it, the people working in Hungary, have added up. I call on the honourable opposition, the intention to improve, to be taken seriously at all times, but I believe that we cannot accept the sentences that are trying to bring down the performance of Hungary and the people working in Hungary. That is why we are proposing to them to reconsider, and, of course, taking into account their positive comments, we are proposing the adoption of this budget. I want you to contribute to this with your work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group, will be speaking. You have the floor.
u2015-05-27-90	Thank you very much. Listening to my fellow Member, I will do it in 7-8 minutes. But, you know, Congressman, there is also some charm in discussing the amendment of the 2015 budget at the same time, and the quasi-general debate on the 16th budget is being held here. Most people can't really tell the difference between which one it is. So it's a charm here today. Dear House, The 2016 budget also anticipates a year of major social conflicts in addition to optimistic assumptions compared to current, more favourable economic processes, even if they do not wish to see it that way. The budget for the tax reduction for political gain continues to favour those with higher incomes, and it is not a positive move for those who need it at all compared to the previous policy of the Orbán government. It can also be seen from the 2016 budget that the government will further reduce the amount of social expenditure, and that education and health will also have to manage with virtually the same amount next year. On the basis of this, the problem of debt rolled by hospitals will not be solved, and on the basis of the money spent on education, we have remained in the shame of our region. Dear House, The total cost of welfare can increase by HUF 46 billion as planned, which will be used as an additional resource for practically the 1.6 percent increase in pension. Pension benefits may rise to HUF 3059 billion after HUF 3010 billion planned for this year, unemployment benefits will be reduced by the government, the education budget will stagnate, health spending will not change a bit, but will only push various budget lines. Without the need for completeness: the National Family and Social Policy Fund's expenditures are falling, family allowances are falling, sick money is reduced, unemployment benefits are reduced, the family allowance expenditure side is reduced, so-called social support is reduced, while the public service budget is up to HUF 340 billion. This is 1 per cent of GDP, but this means that the increase in employment will continue to be achieved through public work instead of investment incentives. Now, that's the hit-and-run budget. Dear House, As the main problem of today's society is the increase in poverty and the lack of security, the government of Viktor Orbán does not care that welfare measures act as automatic stabilisers that mitigate the social impact of economic crises, thereby contributing to shortening and mitigating economic crises. Orbán's response to the changes in the world economy is that it controls those who are excluded from society with a disciplined and criminal policy, while it puts most of the lower middle layers in an uncertain and existentially dependent position. Negative redistribution is taking place, i.e. the majority of welfare benefits are flowing towards the upper and upper middle classes, while the poor are getting less money and more control; this policy includes a policy of authoritarian elements, which preserves the privileges of a narrow minority. The government abandons the socially dependent layers, forcing the public work programme as the only solution, which has no results other than the cosmetics of statistics. At the same time, new resources for stadium construction and other prestige investments will be opened. They also abandon the health, social and educational sectors, they do not want to change the humiliating circumstances. It is unacceptable that they repeatedly favour the higher-income ones by reducing their health. For an average wage earner, this means a tax reduction of only HUF 1500-2000, but with the multi-key tax system it would be possible to achieve several times that. Dear House, This budget is the budget for increasing odds of inequality, because it says in Antal Rogán's speech that this is the government of tax reductions. It is said that thanks to family discounts and a reduction in personal income tax, Hungarian families can manage with HUF 145 billion more money next year than in 2015. The problem, my fellow Members, is that about 80 percent of this amount comes from the cuts in sjaja, which, on the other hand, leaves much more money in the pockets of those with higher incomes than those who have already been significantly supported by the government in recent years by removing the upper sjaja key. But let's see what the hardworking little man pays - of course I also understand the change in tax philosophy - after this change in tax philosophy! People pay the telecommunications tax, 56 billion forints, if they want to make a phone call, and they usually make a phone call. They pay the transaction fee, HUF 200 billion if we bank - and it is difficult to exist today without a bank account - to which we can add a part of the bank tax, since everyone knows that ultimately it, at least in part, is paid by the account holders, that is, we all pay. Then we pay the insurance tax here, 30 billion forints. It's not just for the luxurious drives, it's paid for by everyone who owns a car; it doesn't matter whether they're family, entrepreneur, young or old, retired; it comes with 45 billion forints of motor vehicle tax. Then people pay the public health product tax with HUF 27 billion. Then they pay the fees, 121 billion forints, if we handle it, go to a document office or appeal. The ones I just listed are worth nearly 500 billion forints. And then I didn't tell you about more than HUF 3000 billion in VAT revenue, and we all pay it in the form of 27 percent VAT. I'm sorry, it was about the pork. It's only going to be 5%. [[17.10]] So there will be hundreds of billions of forints of income for the state that people pay next year; not the richest, but everyone, and even most of the income, comes from VAT, which is known to be the tax of the poor. Only HUF 180 billion more revenue is planned from VAT revenue next year, so HUF 180 billion is taken out of people's pockets in addition to this year, only on this one column. Now, then, you have to see what it means to understand in the sentence that Hungarian families can farm with 145 billion HUF more money next year! Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-05-27-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group, has made a statement. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-92	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 budget will be a budget for tax reductions in terms of predictability, predictability and predictability. The Christian Democrats support that the government, when planning the budget, was based on maintaining stability, keeping public debt on a declining path, a low government deficit, increasing employment and increasing economic performance in order to keep more money in the Hungarian families and the domestic economy. Ladies and Gentlemen, Next year, the rate of personal income tax will decrease to 15 percent, i.e. everyone will pay less taxes, the family tax relief of two children will increase, the VAT on pigmeat will decrease from 27 percent to 5 percent, and many fees and fees will be reduced or cancelled. The priority goal of KDNP for children is not to be a starving child in Hungary, so we especially welcome the budget lines that allow the children's food programme to continue in 2016. The priority objective of KDNP in relation to citizens of working age is to return from the aid scheme to the world of work, to which the 2016 budget provides even more opportunities by extending the public employment budget. The KDNP considers solidarity to be important for citizens who are not or are limited in their ability to work, and we therefore believe that the State should take responsibility for those who are unable to work. This solidarity can also be found in the draft budget law, in particular where the bill seeks to improve the situation of those most in need of social support through the reformed aid scheme. The priority objective of the KDNP for citizens of passive age for employment is to guarantee the stability of their pensions, to which the Fidesz-KDNP government maintained its fiscal commitment for 2016 budget lines for pensioners. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the planning of the 2016 budget, the government calculated an economic growth of 2.5 per cent and a budget deficit of 2 per cent, as well as a reduction in government debt to 73,3% of GDP next year. These figures and expectations appear to be well founded. In 2016, Fidesz-KDNP's tax-reducing economic policy started in 2010 and has been ongoing since then. Our specific aim is to make 2016 a year of tax reductions. This is important for Christian democrats because it will further reduce the burden on families and workers. In terms of taxation, our ultimate goal is to ensure that Hungarian workers are burdened with the lowest personal income tax rate in Europe, i.e. that Hungarians pay the least in proportion to their income in the EU. By further reducing personal income tax, every employee, or more than four million people, will increase their monthly income, while by increasing the family tax allowance more than 350 thousand families with two children will have more money: up to 114 thousand forints per year for parents with average income for the two children, while the minimum wage parents will have 85 thousand forints per year more money for the next year. The further fiscal objective of KDNP is to continue with the public sector's wage increase programme in 2016, to provide additional teacher's wage increase, including higher-level daycare educators and adoption consultants, to continue the wage setting of armed and law enforcement workers and nurses and doctors, and to launch the government-official career programme. The Christian Democrats have read out the implementation of their above fiscal targets from the draft budget for 2016: the draft budget for 2016 contains these objectives in proportion to the capacity of Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, By reducing its key from 16 per cent to 15 per cent next year, HUF 120 billion remains with Hungarian families, and the combined effect of the above measures is to help honest people move forward from work. Christian Democrats strive to ensure that every person who lives from work in Hungary can live in better conditions every year. Ladies and Gentlemen, The economic growth of the Hungarian industry shows excellent data thanks to the policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government, which is consistent and patriotic. The performance of the Hungarian industry has increased strongly again, by 11,6 percent in March this year, while the EU average was only 2 percent, and the sector has been growing for 19 months. The strategic goal of KDNP is to return the good economic performance of our country to the benefit of Hungarian families and Hungarian workers. This goal of Christian Democrats is reflected in the fact that from January 2016, mothers returning to work can use the ged extra from the age of six months, which was only possible after the age of one year. In addition, the ged extra goes separately for each child under two years of age. This means that a mother with two children under two years of age and even part - time, but returning to work, will receive two children in addition to her salary. Ladies and Gentlemen, From all this, it can be concluded that in 2016 the burden of families raising children as well as the burden of childless workers will be reduced as well as the burden of domestic businesses, housewives and administrators. By reducing personal income tax, the net salary of each employee will increase, and the best way to help families raising children is to leave the money with them in the form of family tax incentives. For the fifth year, the above has been guaranteed by the family tax system that we have introduced, which leaves nearly HUF 1300 billion in Hungarian families. [[17.20]] As a Christian Democrat, I also consider it important that, according to the budget proposal, there will be 5 billion forints more next year to support the employment of our citizens with disabilities, and that the draft budget aims to provide more resources than this year to improve living conditions for people with disabilities. Ladies and Gentlemen, From all this, it can be concluded that every Hungarian family, every Hungarian working person, can take a step forward again. Please support the bill, KDNP supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-93	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr János Volner, Mr Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the budgetary debate, it is important to clarify some of the basic things that I feel that the government side is very often trying to confuse. First of all, what is the objective of economic policy? If we rely on the public address of the government side, the aim of economic policy is to have a low budget deficit or increase GDP, although that is not the case. The aim of the adoption of the budget is to create a better, happier, better-living country from Hungary in a sustainable way. It's a very important thing. At a time when the government side argues that GDP is increasing, let us think that we have heard the same thing since the change of regime. GDP has grown almost continuously over the last 25 years, and they have said the same thing every year, and Mr Secretary of State has recently heard these thoughts from me, and we have certainly seen that this country has fallen along with the growth of GDP. The Hungarian people's standard of living has not increased, there has not been an increase in life security in Hungary, on the contrary, since the change of regime, this country has lost its industrial capacity, its agriculture has deteriorated, and more than one million people work less than during the change of regime, while GDP has increased almost every year in the last 25 years. So, in itself, honourable Secretary of State, if you would like to refer to a rise in GDP, unfortunately it has not been a tangible result for the country. It is also important to see what is a very important lesson in recent years. 600 thousand Hungarians voted in favour of the policy that marked the last 20-25 years, and those who voted in favour of the socialist governments and Fidesz politics, who, as economic refugees, typically went to work in Western Europe. And while the Prime Minister is talking about the fact that Hungarian young people are going abroad for adventure, unfortunately, it can be seen that while the mother is at home with the children, she is washing dishes in London, and not because she is doing it out of an adventure, but because she was forced to make a living. It is important to see how public systems for the re-production of labour develop within the budget. Because there have been huge shortages in this in recent years. Isn't that what we're thinking? One is the pension system. What happened to the pension money? There were 3 million private pension fund members with HUF 3000 billion, which the Orbán government forced to nationalise, despite the Prime Minister's repeated promises, people were deceived, the system of individual accounts was not created, the private pension fund assets were now expended by the government, and in recent years the Orbán government has abducted HUF 3000 billion. So it can be said that one of the large systems that would serve the re-production of the workforce - the pension system - was destroyed by the Orbán government, because the socialist governments were guilty of significantly increasing public debt, and Fidesz was guilty of the only significant savings that had been made in the country, this HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds was expended by the Orbán government without a trace. I mean, unfortunately, he couldn't produce any result of this amount. It is important to see what is happening in another sector, which ensures the re-production of labour, in education. Ladies and gentlemen. While the government talks about the fact that there is no tuition fee in Hungary - in this brazen lie the students were often outraged and went out on the street, as they are very aware that there is a tuition fee in Hungary - it can be seen that according to the government there is no tuition fee, but according to the data, students in higher education bear two thirds of the costs. Only a third of the state's contribution to their education. Only a third. And it is important to underline this because in the vision of the Orbán government, the poor and vulnerable workforce is the basis for Hungary's competitiveness. Because the government, which pursues an unimaginative and unconventional economic policy, believes that the labour force should be made cheap and vulnerable, because then foreigners will come here, they will employ many Hungarian people and the country will flourish. This strategy has led in the last 25 years to the fact that this unfortunate, better-than-destined country has become poor, constantly being stolen not only by the politicians in power, but also by this thought they have ruined it. It is worth addressing a third pillar to ensure the re-production of labour. It's health care. What can we see in Hungarian health care? While the government brags about how cleverly it has been to put health care in order, Hungarians have everyday experience that relatives are forced to take the medicine and bandages to the hospital because the hospital doesn't have the money for them. They give you a bed, lay this man there, health workers worthy of a better fate can either deal with them, or they have already gone abroad to work, because they have become economic refugees, but unfortunately they cannot talk about quality care. What else do we experience in health care? For example, Mr Secretary of State, in the case of an everyday routine surgery - like a hip or knee replacement - there are waiting periods of 4-5 years in several regions of the country. For that long, a person with the right to implant a prosthetic will be virtually disabled. There is no money, in many diseases, it solves the government's problems, unfortunately, that the patient dies, because it simply doesn't get to the point of being operated on to deal with the disease, and that's unacceptable. We also need to see how the hospital's debt is coming along. The Hungarian state itself is the biggest debtor of the Hungarian economy, most of the debts against Hungarian businesses were accumulated by the Hungarian state and this occurs within the healthcare sector. At the time when the government announced a large-scale health-saving program and talked about the implementation of a hospital reconstruction programme of HUF 40 billion, the economic press brought down the data at that moment: HUF 98.4 billion was the hospital's overdue debt. Ladies and gentlemen. So much for the relationship between government propaganda and reality. It is also worth seeing whether Hungarian people live better or not. Because, Mr Secretary of State, I have also told you this, if we count the figures in euro and look at how much the average earnings in euro were when you took over the government in 2010 and how much now, we cannot talk about any increase in wages. In the neighbouring countries, yes. Wages have increased in Slovakia, wages have increased in Romania, wages have also increased in Poland, a member of the Visegrád Four. In Slovenia, wages also increased in euros. There has been a wage decline in Hungary, which, unfortunately, does not point in the direction of catching up with Europe, on the contrary, we are falling apart. It is also important to see that the government has implemented the single-key tax system, with which it has provided over HUF 500 billion to the 10 per cent of the best earning employees with the benefits of the tax system. Jobbik agrees that family tax incentives must be implemented within the tax system, and this policy has been supported from the outset. However, what we see is that the single-key tax system has transferred income from poorer people to the pockets of the best living people, while Hungary does not need such a transfer of income, but rather to strengthen the basis of the economy and introduce a tax system that supports production. [[17 .30]] That is, a tax system that focuses economic resources on tourism that brings foreign income to industry, agriculture and our country, in order to bring about a sustainable and truly welfare turnaround in Hungary. It has to be seen that there has been a single-key tax in Hungary for years, the economy has not become white, economic growth has not started, and the budget has given up on an annual basis from HUF 600 billion without any real economic impact in recent years. It is precisely time for the government to introduce a more rational tax system, which strengthens the foundations of the Hungarian economy, to adopt Jobbik's proposal, to focus on strengthening production; by strengthening industrial areas, agricultural areas and tourism bringing foreign incomes to Hungary, this turn can be achieved. In this way, as the Orbán government has tried in recent years, it can be proven that it will not work. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-95	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no two-minute speeches have been made from any factions, we will now continue with the speeches announced in writing. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Here, listening to the debate, it came up several times, but also earlier, in the press, about the reasons the government has for discussing this budget now, in the late spring, rather than at the usual time. There have been some arguments, but I think it's better to clarify this matter, and it's better to talk about reality here, and not try to bring up some kind of foggy case. It is quite clear to my belief that Hungary has taken a rising course in the economy in the last two years, but from 2012 onwards. This can hardly be disputed by the opposition. It is clear that not only GDP has increased, but unemployment has indeed decreased, indeed, if not to the desired extent, but the public debt has decreased, and there is no doubt that during this period the Hungarian economy has taken a strong development path. Dear House, This stability is one of the greatest values that has been achieved in recent years. I consider this to be a greater value than many others. In this world, uncertainty is the greatest. Here we can count on the fact that in Western Europe there is a small and bigger recovery. But this recovery is very, very weak. We do not see what will become of the Greek case, we do not see where the situation in Ukraine will develop, it is not clear at all what will happen in the southern countries. This also directly affects Hungary. For a long time, despite the results achieved, Hungary has also to be established, and they have simply not been willing to evaluate foreign valuers in such a way that those who value the country have not been able to appreciate what would have been realistic. There was definitely a grudge that was obviously largely due to the unconventional economic policy. I do not think that this should be called unorthodox; we can call it an unconventional economic policy that has results. Well, the past period and recent months have shown that there has been a change. I believe that if the government has properly assessed this and said that we must guarantee stability, in any case and especially towards those who will determine our ratings, it can mean a great deal to the country. After all, the kind of capital flows that are desirable and that can move the Hungarian economy can be increased. If that is the case, then I think it is worth sitting here and it is worth having this debate. Well, it's about the budget itself. Well, there's no flawless budget. In fact, it is up to the opposition to make proposals in those parts of the budget which can be attacked and, if possible, which will have to be considered. However, in a given situation, it must also be made clear that this budget is trying to stay on the ground of reality. Now, if you'll be so kind as to appreciate that I myself appreciate that you're not counting on an increase that would be unrealistic. He doesn't expect inflation to be unrealistic. It does not indicate any figures that could not be achieved in terms of revenue and expenditure. That hasn't been said once today that, please, these numbers are unrealistic. That's what the budget is based on. I think that if the budget is based on these, then we can say that the budget is well-founded. However, there are parts of this budget that I, for my part, not only feel incomplete, but I strongly believe that there are certain things missing from the budget. And let's be clear about this. In Hungary, the drivers of the economic development that has now been achieved are quite easily defined. These drivers are primarily linked to industry, primarily to the production of cars, to a very large extent to the European Union's inflow of money, and to the performance of Hungarian agriculture, to a large extent and to a decisive extent. However, the performance of the Hungarian agriculture, and I always say this, even though sometimes they look at me in the wrong way, has indeed increased and increased significantly in the last three or four years, but if I compare it to the 1990 performance, then very bad numbers will come out. Then it turns out that there are huge opportunities in this Hungarian economic sphere, which has not been exploited so far. Why not? There's a lot of reasons. It's an inherited bad estate structure that needs to be changed. An investment policy, which has often been absent from reality, has not always reached its goal, I must say. The assessment of these could open up opportunities for further economic growth. Do these conditions exist now? I think that when we look at this budget, we cannot ignore the assessment that Hungarian agriculture, which, I would say once again, is a driving sector, even in its current form, must be able to give new impetus and new movement. I would like to say that I think that everyone here, in this country, who thinks and listens a little bit, knows that the opportunities available in the current EU budget period may never be repeated. Consequently, the instruments now available must be used to the fullest extent. It's not good enough to use. They should be used in such a way that they can serve, even in the period following that, when these instruments can only be available from home and only to a limited extent. To do so, however, we need to create the legal conditions that are now only in a very small part available. We have to face the fact that since the entry into force of the Land Traffic Act, earth movement has not gone in the direction I think we all wished in good faith. It must be made clear and made clear that the type of earth movement that is happening now means a narrow movement in the same circle. In order for new jobs to appear within the Hungarian economy in villages where we cannot provide other jobs outside of public work than what can be created in agriculture, it must be made clear that the conditions of access to the ground must be changed, I believe. This change has to come to the point that every Hungarian person who wants to live on agricultural land, if he wants to work on agricultural land and cultivate land, then he should have the freedom, the right and the opportunity. The only solution to the further development of Hungarian agriculture and thus the Hungarian economy, in terms of the survival of the villages, in terms of the future of the entire Hungarian countryside, can be that the people living there clearly see and know that it is worth working not only to earn a piece of bread from day to day, but also because I am able to ensure the future of my family so that I can be a farmer in the next few days. The conditions for this must be established. And there is one very important condition that I think I should be able to say here, and not least to appreciate. [[17.40]] For a long time - and I have experienced it many times during my relatively long career - one has encountered a very strong resistance every time in the countryside he talks about the need to conspire with the smaller ones, so that it is clear that in the next period, the 10 to 20 hectares of farmers will be the most vegetarian. It was a strong resistance, understandably. During the communist period, let us not call it that, since it was not communism, but in the Bolshevist period it was clear that the alliance was equal to some kind of forced course. That's not where the situation is today. Today, a very significant part of the Hungarian farmers' society requires that there be a kind of alliance that can guarantee his future with greater security, so there must also be progress in this area. Why did I say all this as a small farmer in this House? Not because I wanted to take up opposition positions, as I must say today, on the opposition side, I have listened very carefully, except for one or two speeches that may even be considered as good faith - I will not mark them - in fact, there was nothing other than opposition speeches in the ordinary budget debate: all the bad things the government has put forward are what the government wants the country to lose. Well, they didn't say it like that, but that's what the speeches were about. I have said what I have just said, because in this budget there is also the possibility of moving forward in the desirable direction in which we, I think, still not few, want to move the country's chariot. I would like to share one last thought with you - I consider this important - the issue of taxation. My position is unbroken. My position was also when we accepted the single-key tax that the tax should be fair, fair, and I must say that it must be aspirant to proportionality - the latter is almost impossible - and therefore, if a tax is not fair, it must be made fair. If justice can only be discovered in it, it must be strengthened to be righteous. I'd like to say more clearly what I'm trying to say. My position is that it is a great thing that 120 billion forints remain in the family, but less so if these proportions are not very, very well shown, because for the poor man it can only be a small slice of bread, for whom there has been a loaf, and for whom it may be another loaf. I think, House, that we need to move forward in this respect, we need to think about it, and that is what the government is doing, because what I have heard here from my fellow Christian Democrat, the achievements of this government, when it takes steps towards families, when it tries to give benefits to large families, to children, to those who strive for a better life, again, opportunities. Overall, in this House, I think that the reason why the government's budget proposal - and I therefore believe that I should support it - is because it is clear that it is the path and goal it is trying to set, if not in the right direction, but I believe it is going in the right direction; I have not heard anything better than it is today as an offer from the opposition side. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-27-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary; of course, the member of the government is entitled to an extraordinary speech under the house rules. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-27-98	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to comment very briefly on two matters: the two minutes may be a little overstepping. One: Congressman Volner...
u2015-05-27-99	There's no two-minute window, Mr. Secretary, feel free.
u2015-05-27-100	Thank you. Mr Volner's comment on the financing of higher education: I think this is a misunderstanding. Congressman said that the cost of higher education is paid in two-thirds by the students and that only one-third of us use Community funds for this. The total annual budget of Hungarian higher education has been somewhere around HUF 500 billion for years, between HUF 470 and HUF 530 billion. The structure of this looks like this. About HUF 100 billion is what we use in clinics for public health care, obviously there is a part of education, research, and there is a part of health care. Out of the remaining HUF 400 billion, HUF 200 billion is what the central budget provides for higher education institutions. I think if you look at last year's budget or this year's budget, it clearly shows this figure, compared to this year's budget, next year's budget has increased. About HUF 100-120 billion is the amount that higher education institutions receive and receive from community grants, i.e. various grants, EU and domestic grants; and the remaining HUF 100 billion is about what higher education institutions own. This is, in a significant part, indeed the cost of education, if you will. Of course, it should be added that out of this HUF 100 billion, which is 20 percent of the total, so not two thirds of the total amount, as Mr. So in this sense, I think there may be a misunderstanding, this number, this one-third or two, so obviously it doesn't add up. The second element of my comment, which was also said by the congresswoman, and it can also be read in the press that for assembly plants, Hungarian education is a low-skilled and inexpensive workforce, and obviously higher education is also a low-skilled and inexpensive workforce. I didn't really respond to these in the press because I believe that there can be anything there, but to the authority of the Hungarian Parliament, I think it is part of the fact that we should not leave statements of this type without any comment. I've had the pleasure of working with several companies that have previously called such a assembly plant, and I think I'm obviously of a positional advantage here, but I'd like to say very briefly how these companies work, what it means to have such a assembly plant in quotes. These assembly plants actually employ trained workers. These workers are trained and continuously trained. Indeed, these workers are involved in assembly or other operations of technology, but because of continuous training and further training, their knowledge is constantly growing. In this sense, I believe that here a value is created that can then be used anywhere else. They hire skilled workers. These skilled workers today, if we look at the technological development of the Hungarian economy, in the OECD comparison Germany has the highest technological added value in Hungary on the basis of the production process here. This means that these skilled workers, who perform in vocational training institutions, no longer have or must have the kind of knowledge that we say they requested twenty years ago, are at the limit of being able to operate a very complex technology. In these assembly plants, engineers belong to the manufacturing process itself, so the value creation process. The job of these engineers is to design, operate, maintain, improve the technology that works there. This also means not cheap engineers, but really expensive and highly qualified engineers. It includes economists who understand the value-making process, who can describe it. In these companies, which you call a assembly plant, the company employs economists in many areas, traders, buyers; employs lawyers; employs experts in human resources management; employ language teachers; employs a number of professionals that are necessary to enable these companies to operate. The extent to which these companies could be regarded as non-compiling plants: when these companies appeared in Hungary after the change in the system, a significant part of them really only dealt with assembly, so some kind of production, but assembly is also a very important thing. Working isn't assembly, so we have to be careful what we say. Today, a large part of these companies have become an innovation centre, so beyond the fact that they are actually manufacturing something - and otherwise not only technical and technical companies - they already have a developer and innovative company; these companies spend HUF 150 billion each year on R &amp; D and innovation from their own resources in Hungary. This amount and this number have also made Hungary the leading country of corporate innovation in Eastern-Central Europe. What these companies are doing beyond that, and when we talk about what kind of specialist we train for them as a assembly plant, these companies are completely integrated into their environment, these companies appear at local universities, they appear at the government, how to transform them, develop these trainings. I think that when we talk about assembly plants and training for them, it is very important to consider that this is a completely different type of thing. So I would like to ask everyone that when we make these statements, we should always consider what these companies mean. So we are not talking about cheap, low-skilled professionals, we are talking about expensive and otherwise well-trained professionals and their needs. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Mr István Tukacs, MSZP Group. [[17.50]]
u2015-05-27-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address one issue on the budget, but before that, I would like to take some time off from the idea that my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, has raised, namely why we are discussing this budget now. Dear fellow Member, You, with great respect, think that it is because it gives stability to the country. I think about it a little bit differently, and you thought something else about it a year ago, for example. The reason why, in spite of all my respect, and despite my growing respect for you since your speech, it is because it was you who brought the push-up of the budget as a draft law to us in the November period, you have argued fiercely that it is logical, because it gives us more time to think about it, to clean up, to make a good budget. But just a few years before that, they argued that a budget should be adopted early, because it offers opportunities for many things and so on. So let's be honest, your relationship with this method of budgeting and its date is in question enough to be polite. Therefore, I, for one, cannot accept this kind of argument. My version of this is that an early adopted budget for next year gives the government a year and a half peace of mind: there is no need to deal with budgetary matters, and it is possible to dribble well-sounded sums of communication here or there. Therefore, I think it is the political manoeuvre of the Minister and his environment, not predictability or anything else. But if you think otherwise, then, of course, I would be happy to discuss it. What I would like to talk about is health, and that is that there is no change of attitude in this budget in relation to health. I say that there is no change of attitude, because I do not want to narrow down the issue of health to get more money, although it is essential - I will talk about it later - but I must say that health is the thing whose problems cannot be communicated so much, they are so far ahead of us, and it seems that health is one of the issues that would really function as a national case if this was what the current government would do. I don't know many such national issues, where there should be long-term agreement between profession and policy on where to go, I would call education and pension systems even more so, but I certainly consider health to be a matter in which we should not do something budget-by-budget, but we should agree with the actors on where to go for decades. That's what I miss. Not from the budget, because the budget is not necessarily capable of declaring certain high-profile objectives, but from government operations. From the government's way of working on health care, which we have had to face the fact that wages are shamefully low; that the graduating system is booming, and you have also chosen to legitimize it; that waiting lists are growing to a mile away, and that now after some stagnation and 5 billion use, they have started to grow again; that the system of general doctors is not good; that doctors and workers are migrating; that ambulances cannot get to where it is necessary; that the debt of hospitals is depressing because the patient suffers; and I would just tell you: and the territorial imbalance in the law of healing, which is about the chances of healing in the shopping hospital are less than we say in Budapest in Uzoki. And you can't talk about it at a communication level, because these are real problems, everyone knows about them, so they should be answered somehow. My fellow Member from KDNP was talking about visions, because he has visions, and I appreciate that, without any cynicism. The MSZP's vision of health is primarily about health care, not about health care when you are already ill, but about health care, that everyone stays healthy to the limit of opportunity, and about an effective, accessible, high-quality health care, which is primarily sick, primarily about the fact that the patient's relationship with your doctor is equal to, not subordinate and superior. This patient-minded health care is about knowing the patient's right, what he gets, and what he gets because he's insured. And he's sick because he knows where, under what circumstances he can achieve the best opportunities for his recovery. However, in order for such a vision to be fulfilled, it is essential to withdraw money from health care, to keep it level or to give more money by magnitude. And by the order of magnitude, more money would mean for health care that it would already be possible to produce concepts. It would turn around to - no offense, but rather foolish - practice when concepts are being made about how to make money and save money for the health system to work. It should be translated. And if my fellow Member Volner has told me what he thinks the budget is for, and I say that it is for us to decide the matters of the money that we all put together, I mean what we think is important. And if we were to consider this area important, health and healing, then it would most likely be the subject of the debate that it would not need 42-43-47 billion, but a hundred billion more for the normal functioning of health care. I am telling you all this, my fellow Members, because this is the order of magnitude where we could talk about serious things; when we could create a concept of hospitalization, day-to-day, outpatient care, anything else, but until then we cannot talk about it, just like this, at the level of communication, because there is no serious possibility. Therefore, communication remains that the general practitioner will receive another 10 billion. I'm asking you, what's gonna change the patient's situation out of 10 billion? There's gonna be money to train residents in this. I'm very happy for you, but you're not going to reform health care. And then a few more things, I would add - and I would now say to Mr Secretary of State that I am trying to be more specific, and, please understand - that the money for healthcare directly in the E Fund has been reduced by 45 billion. This is just as spooky as Minister Mihály Varga acknowledged in a television conversation: yes, there is 45 billion of hospital money missing, but I am very sorry that we cannot give more. Now, we're not talking about $45 billion. Therefore, I think it would be necessary for us to talk about the budget, perhaps, about what we are saying not in the standing up of such an opposition government, that it is less, and that the government is telling us that this is more, we are telling them that this is worse, and that the government is telling us that this is better, although, of course, a budgetary debate is usually also about ideologies and visions, but we are trying to have a serious discussion and understanding of some matters. Now, I don't see that intention, but I see that every two or three months on average, a medical salad is placed on Parliament's table, with all the changes that need to be settled either in connection with EU affairs, logic and operation, or pressure. These are usually small issues, so they do not require much attention, but they do need to discuss the issue of health care, and after a Semmelweis project in a trash can, and after a programme - which I think is not living in its content - Hungary until 2020 - which was adopted in February, we should have a serious discussion about this. Our amendments on health concern the need to make a decisive change in wage matters, to make a decisive change in hospital operations, in general doctors, of course, in ambulances, and to remedy cases that are cumbersome. We don't think it's a solution if waiting lists and, above all, to reduce the booking lists so we drop 5 billion, that it'll be good for stopping it. No, you won't. I'll report it. We think that in financing hospital operations and better financing, we need to deal with gratuity money with a better wage, normal operating conditions, such as the reduction of the oncological capacity limit you promised, not to mention that, of course, even if you thank God, the find is negative, you still have to finance it. This could be done in hospitals with the kind of waiting list and benefits that are now very tense, I say, not only hip and knee replacement, spine stabilization, but here it is very important to wait months for a simple mammographical examination, which is not possible. [[18.00]] So we think that is what our amendments are about. In this wage case, we reiterate the proposal made by protesting workers and protesting residents. The career model is not satisfactory to them, because it is impenetrable. They say that in a foreseeable time frame, we should develop decent wages. They said 50 percent in the first round, and we share that, and if I remember correctly, about four years apart. That's what we share. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this entire package of proposals amounts to about 100 to 120 billion. This amount is equal to another 1 percent reduction in the single-key tax. Maybe we can talk about this. What's important? Several people have already found that I have heard it from the government side, thank God, in a very nice way, on behalf of Congressman Turi-Kovács, that it means nothing to the poor, and it doesn't matter to the rich. You could spare it. That's the way I put it. Then couldn't we talk about using this for health care? I think so. This would be the subject of the real debate. The subject of the real debate is not to have a billion more on it, but to have three billion less on it. The subject of the real debate is not that the opposition is submitting bluff proposals for what can be taken off and moved to what else - the theme of government communication, anyone on the government - is a hit. These are working policy options for a budget debate, everyone takes advantage of it. But that's not what the real debate should be about. The real debate should be about whether we can change scale somewhere. And if we are really talking about a growing economy and things are really going well, then why not have this debate without you claiming that there is no money for this? 'Cause the basis of the reference from the minister's side was - the world of the country and the people who watched TV - that there was no money for that. Why? Why is it for a 1% tax reduction, which is not essential, so let's face it. What made him a business? So that we can talk about it again at communication level, that we are the government of tax cuts? Why don't you want to be a government of health? It would be easier, and it would cost the same amount of money. Ladies and gentlemen, That is all I wanted to say, when we argue about our amendments, I will talk about this again. My closing thought is that this debate is more important than not to draw public attention to it. For the sake of the minutes, the Hungarian public media did not give me the opportunity. He did not give people the opportunity to monitor this debate. Therefore, I suspect, seeing this enormous interest on the first day of the budget debate, that the majority of people on this channel will no longer have access to what anyone thinks about the world. Well, then we'll try to do it some other way. Thank you so much for listening. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2015-05-27-103	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Simon Robert Balázs, Fidesz Group, is coming to a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the Cultural Committee of the Hungarian Parliament, which is responsible for education and culture as well as the field of sport. I will now comment on the planned sports appropriations for next year's budget in the coming minutes. Sport plays an important role in every well-functioning society. We often hear and read about the role of health protector, but we tend to forget about the human and social-forming power of sport. The sad feature of our time is the hard, often ruthless struggle for the sake of achievement, for the sake of material security. In this struggle, the physically and spiritually well - prepared ones can gain great benefits. Sport also prepares for a number of things that can be useful in other areas of life. The one who learned to fight on the sports field, to follow the rules, to honor the opponent, has learned to lose and win. A true sportsman is able to stand up and fight again after losing, making him a more valuable member of society in civil life than a person who easily gives up fighting or wants to achieve an irregular result. This is the effect of sport already in the 19th century. In the century, the creators of modern Hungarian sports, Count István Széchenyi and Baron Miklós Wesselényi recognized it. These two enlightened young people from England brought the ideas of modern sport, founded our first clubs, which later achieved great success. Ladies and gentlemen, If I have to describe in one word the draft budget for 2016 submitted by the Government to Parliament, I must say that it is sport-friendly. It is clear from the proposal that the government continues to regard sport as a strategic sector. Next year will be the year of the Rio Olympics, as we all know, which has been given special consideration when drawing up the budget. The budget provides HUF 2.61 billion directly for professional support for competition and Olympic preparation. This is where I note that XXXI. The number of Hungarian athletes travelling to Rio for the summer Olympic Games is expected to reach 200. For the purpose of the financial appreciation and recognition of sports results, the budget will be HUF 33.4 million higher this year, amounting to HUF 2.67 billion in 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the Olympic allowance, the annuity of the nation's athlete and the Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholarship, which also ensures the appreciation of the results achieved in addition to the successful Olympic performance. Among the funds provided to the Ministry of Human Resources, the list of support for sport activities under the heading shows that HUF 10.66 billion will be available to support tasks related to the implementation of the sports development concepts. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the support of 16 priority sports and 18 sports supported by the catch-up framework and 170 trainers. Academic system of national sports associations and 7 billion forints are available in 2016 to support the tasks of the Hungarian Football Association and 1.3 billion forints are planned to support competition sports. In addition to competition sports, special attention will be paid to replacements with HUF 1.99 billion, as well as support for sports for people with disabilities. Here I note that the amount of HUF 447 million here increased by HUF 120 million compared to last year. In addition, a serious sum of HUF 447 million is added to support the recreational port. Facility development will continue to receive significant funding, according to next year's budget proposal, the State will support the investment of the National Olympic Centre by HUF 35.88 billion in 2016, and the National Stadium Development Programme will continue. Within the framework of the program, the project provides funding for the renovation of the Sóstó Stadium in Székesfehérvár, the Bozsik Stadium and the renovation of the stadium in Diósgyőr. Support for the development of sport facilities in the 16 priority sports sectors is HUF 4.02 billion. To support the development of sports facilities in the priority sports clubs, there are 3.68 billion forints and 1.88 billion forints for its operation. Work on the organisation of major world competitions will also receive a special amount. The planned budget for next year is HUF 27.27 billion for the facilities development required for the 2017 World Water Championship in Budapest. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. The appropriation was planned for the final event of the 2016 water polo championship event of HUF 149.2 million and HUF 625.8 million for the 2017 adult world judo championship and world congress. I think it is very important that the budget plan provides the same HUF 3 billion, to be exact HUF 2.97 billion, for gym building and school building programmes. [[18.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Albert Szent-Györgyi, a regular athlete, said the following in a lecture he gave in 1930. The sport is not only physical education, but also the most powerful and noble educational tool for the soul. The concept of sport should not be confused with mere physical skill, record hunting, profit hunting, and primacy. The latter not only have nothing to do with sport, but they are enemies of sport. Sport is primarily a spiritual concept. A sports team is a reduced image of society, a match is a symbol of a noble struggle for life. Here, during the game, sport teaches people the most important civic virtues, belonging, self-sacrifice, complete subordination of individual interests, endurance, willingness to act, quick decision, self-esteem, absolute decency, and, above all, the rules of fair play, the noble struggle. Anyone who knows these things, and who knows the manhood of the soul, the interest, the independence and the desire to create it will not be beaten by 12 or 17 years of eternal ciphering, frightening, and threatening will stand in his place in life. That's why Cambridge closes his classrooms at 1:00 noon and opens his sports fields. These sentences accurately show the opinion of our world-famous scientist on the importance of creating a mental and physical balance. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, If we want a healthy nation, we have to sacrifice for it. It's a long-term, but safe investment, because it's cheaper and more useful to raise healthy people than to cure them with expensive medicines. Therefore, our associations must not only raise athletes, but also healthy young people who think and behave according to the expectations of society, who are able to raise and strengthen Hungary. This must be a serious task for all decision makers here in Parliament and for all our countrymen who feel responsible for the present and future of our nation. They say that for a budget, you cannot use the two adjectives that are bad or good, only that they are enforceable or not enforceable. This draft budget can, in my opinion, be implemented. On this basis, I support and propose that the draft budget for 2016 submitted by the Government be adopted. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, submitted a written statement. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-106	Mr President, Dear House, Before I begin my plan, I asked for a faster response so that I could reflect on the words of Secretary of State Palkovic. Unfortunately, he is no longer in the room, but either through the minutes or in a later discussion, our arguments can certainly clash. There is no reason why my fellow Member, János Volner, said that, indeed, we have become a country of assembly plants. In this respect, it is certainly true and true that when he himself called a meeting as the better chair of the Enterprise Development Committee in which Hungarian automotive companies and business leaders respected and respected Béla Glatttfelder, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, who himself acknowledged that the Hungarian share of automotive companies and companies in terms of added value was significantly below 5 percent. This means that the supplier's hinterland, the knowledge base for which these companies were allowed to enter Hungary and for which they were allowed to operate within the Hungarian market, has not been established. However, we can also say that when we look at their financial numbers and see that their pre-tax results and after-tax results are almost the same, i.e. in many cases they are not involved in public burdens, but we also see that certain points in the strategic contracts concluded with them are treated by the Government of Hungary as sealed secrets, then we can certainly see that these imbalances exist and that we do not see, at the level of employees, developers, engineers or other levels, the build-up of the Hungarian supplier base as justified. And we also have to say that, of course, these are automated companies, obviously it is not expected to employ hundreds of thousands of people, but the fact that only a few thousand are employed instead of a few tens of thousands - there is obviously no way to argue about the proportions here, yes - certainly does not lead to what we would like to see in Hungary. Overall, therefore, my fellow Member, János Volner, expressed himself in an absolutely correct way on this issue. And when we talk about the budget in a broader perspective, perhaps we can see it, and the easiest way to approach the issue is to see the XX. The budget of the century - yours - battles with those of the 21st century. In the course of the day, Jobbik's representatives tried to share it with the wider public. When it comes to the XX. Are we talking about a 100th-century budget or a type of budget, what are we thinking? Let's see what's inside. It includes, for example, interest repayments on government debt, which have not changed in scale, a certain increase or decrease in volume each year, but it is apparent that Hungary is in a position to pull an incredible big ballast year after year due to repeated and repeated non-negotiation of public debt. When you announced the 65-70-percent sovereign debt ratio in your austerity package named after Kálmán Széll, you did miss something, because this ratio has not been close to the 65-70-percent level since then, in nominal terms, the government debt is higher than before; perhaps you do not argue with the numbers either. We must also say that, in terms of VAT - and a little on the part of taxation - we can see that the EU record rate is still 27 percent VAT in this budget. You are covered by the fact that a partial reduction in pigmeat is now being made, and this measured reduction, according to the operators, could lead to a decrease in prices of around 17 percent, so that the volume will not be swallowed up by the traders, and then we have not included collateral damage, such as, say, damage to poultry farmers. But let us also welcome the step that, although minimal, cosmetic, is happening in the right direction, so let us not discuss this. But we must say that there would be a reserve in this budget, there would be plenty to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5% and even to reduce the VAT on child-rearing items to 5%. So we see in this draft budget of the XX. We can also see where the way out would be, and we can identify the resources for this. Obviously, if all they do is add up from the general provisions of the chapter, from the expenditure in rem and operating at various ministries, a framework that the government has not indicated for what purpose it intends to isolate, or if it is completely unnecessary, whether it is a billion-dollar item, we are already in the order of hundreds of billions. But if we add it up, we'll find a lot coming out of a neighborhood of 450 billion that would be either - I repeat - pocket money as planned by you on government accounts, or you want to spend it for completely unnecessary purposes. It can also be said that, in this draft budget, Article XX shall apply. As a remnant of the century, we also have the position in the European Union that the leaders of Hungary at the time may have taken up a little after 1990. It can be seen that, in itself, the fact that we do not see the numbers of the resurrection of the sugar industry in parallel with the breakdown of a sugar quota, we do not see that the old Hungarian production capacity will be restored, we do not see any widespread development, we do not see any investment packages that could generate added value in Hungary. However, we see a British correction, we see a 21 billion-dollar item of which you directly support Britain with the taxpayers of Hungary, because it is such a poor country and surely it needs it. They didn't even attempt to renegotiate this impertinent and outrageous movement, which alone is a certificate of poverty for the government. We can also say what is missing from this draft. Once again, there is no home creation programme, there is no decent, state-based housing and home creation programme. The fact that the Socpol is trying to expand it or even rename it, transfer its resources through commercial banks, I'm not saying it's a bad thing, let's not discuss it. It may help one or two people, but it will not be able to stop young Hungarians from mass emigration at systemic level if they see that they cannot save up their average salary according to the CSF in 15 or 20 years for a flat or a small house in Hungary today, because they can quite simply see that they cannot do so, a GDP increase here or there. I would add that it would be nice not only to talk about GDP in this case, but also to determine where the Hungarian national economy stands after the withdrawal of the activities of foreign companies and companies that withdraw profits. To do this, a national inventory of assets that you have not prepared, and you are also lagging behind for several years in relation to this commitment. [[18.20]] We also need to see that while there is still a gap of HUF 20,000 between the minimum wage and the fixed minimum of living, which has not been significantly reduced in recent years, it is at least demagogy to talk about catching up and the huge possibilities and new chances of living in a wide range of social classes. So what we should see is that if we only look at the tax system, then one third of the revenue is derived from VAT payments in this respect - here we mentioned 27 percent VAT on the European Union record - but we also see that the HUF 215 billion that the expectations of the financial resources from here increase is higher than last year's rate. Then how can we talk about a budget for tax cuts? How can you talk about facilitations in the event that, after a 1% reduction in personal income tax, the situation arises that last year you expected HUF 1640 billion of this type of tax, and now you have 1658 billion? It is clear that this can be explained in part by the expansive economic effects, by the broadening of the group of contributors, but by talking about a mass-level concession when the waiting on this tax line increases, so their income expected from personal income tax increases, despite the fact that you are supposed to make concessions, at least interesting, calls for an explanation. We also have to say that until there is a contribution revolution, so until the employee brings 68 700 forints home, his employer is obliged to pay the state 66 thousand forints, I do not know how they expect the Hungarian economy to be whitened or whitened. You can see, therefore, that there are a lot of problems with this draft budget. It does not respond to the problems raised by the emigration spiral, not even enough to immigration, as it does not include rebuilding or installing an independent border guard; but it does not respond to Hungary's greatest disaster, and this is the population crisis. After all, we can see that all, by the way, are good experiments, but despite small experiments, the latest statistics again show that there is an increase in the number of live births within the margin of error, and I am very happy about that, the 3 whole tenths of the percentage, but the number of deaths increased by 15 percent. So once again, the decline of the Hungarian population is at such a level that they have rapidly failed to slow down and have failed to stop it, so behind each of their budgetary decisions, the approach should be to slow down the Hungarian population loss first and stop it, and ultimately to turn this nation towards growth. That is why we are making our improving proposals, and we feel that it is their duty to discuss them at least substantially, I repeat, in the interests of all Hungarian citizens. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-27-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although Secretary of State Palkovic is not here, I have heard an interesting thought from my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z., which I think I would like to show you a few enlightening points so that we can see clearly. We're talking about a system, a assembly country, we're saying what isn't true, because there are a lot of elements in the system, if any of these elements are missing, the rest isn't working. What do I mean? In any car factory, plant - and if necessary, I can give you specific names - 20 percent of the engineer who does not work on the line, but does development work and other quality assurance work here in Hungary. For this to be reflected in the education system, there is also a need for a university education system, as well as a professional education system and vocational training. As long as this system does not work together, it does not work well. We cannot say that we are a country of assembly, and I will make an argument that may or may not be said by the Secretary of State, I will tell you now. Several innovation centres have been built, such as Minister Varga recently handed over several such centres. Innovation is currently around HUF 150 billion from the so-called assembly plants here in Hungary. This is about 10 times as much value as, let's say, given Hungarian plants, small and medium-sized enterprises spend on innovation and development. Therefore, I say that we should not exclude these plants, who are innovative and need small and medium-sized enterprises, because if we create harmony within the economy, which is now in progress in all sectors of the economy, then the system will be operational. Once again, on a professional basis, I am talking about a system; do not try to distract the entire education system in such a direction that we are a country of assembly. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2015-05-27-110	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I am very pleased with what Parliamentary Secretary Zsolt Szabó said before me, because we have not more summarized the counterpoint of what I would like to say, and I quote, we cannot say that we are a country of assembly. Indeed, we cannot say, I fully agree - the sad thing is that we want to become one. The trend that we see in Hungarian education and at every point, or in relation to the budget that we are currently facing, is that we want to become a assembly country. He says it's 20 percent engineer ratio. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Germans.]] These engineers, look at any Mercedes in Hungary or on Kecskemét, these are not Hungarians, these are the German engineers who came here; numbers. Now, I've just been to Kecskemét, and I've experienced this, you can see that. I have been promised that there will be more and more Hungarian engineers here, but that is not the truth. The truth is, there are still German engineers here. We train these people in the current system to produce a special body of cars, for example, and then when the global economy processes become such that the whole plant will take itself and move somewhere further east, or who knows in what direction, then we will be here with a lot of people who can produce a special part, the plant has moved away because of cheaper labour or cheaper premises or better taxes, and we will see that we will not be able to give these people jobs. That's the sad part, so we say we're heading towards a assembly country, and that's why we're saying that the image of the assembly country is not a positive picture. What is going on in education at the moment points to this, and we believe that this, moreover, means that resources for education are falling year after year overall, especially when compared to the country's GDP ratio, which is behind schedule, this economic policy is behind schedule. We see that only one element is the same in crisis management from Singapore to Finland, when one tries to make great progress [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is a drastic increase in the resources of education; unfortunately, we do not have it.
u2015-05-27-111	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to the time frame available. You have the floor.
u2015-05-27-112	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Zsolt Szabó Secretary of State! If, indeed, there are hundreds of billions of spinning innovations, and your State Secretary acknowledges that the proportion of Hungarian added value in terms of total activity is below 5%, then how can it be imagined that this situation will benefit Hungary? We say that it is okay that these companies are here, it is very good that they are here, but the Hungarian supplier background must be built, not the German engineers alone; we do also achieve the situation that the data and the contracts are publicly available in terms of the supplier's background and the contracts. And the final question arises, and the point is that if the Hungarian supplier's background is so weak, if we do not develop this or even develop it, what will you do if these companies leave Hungary if the labour force is cheaper elsewhere? What's left after them? You can't just build a national economy on them. There is a need for a tax system supporting production, very strong Hungarian-owned units, and for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to be involved in this hundreds of billion-dollar innovation circle. Without it, you will rely only on assembly plants, which is completely unacceptable, not Hungary's way. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-113	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The fourth round of speakers came forward in writing. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group. [[18.30]]
u2015-05-27-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 budget we are discussing contains three main things: tax cuts, wage increases and job creation. The biggest winners of these will be families and employees, all employees. As Minister Mihály Varga explained in detail in his expo, the country has taken a long-term economic growth path, allowing wage increases and the introduction of career models in an increasing number of areas. It is also important to emphasise that we are doing this out of the country's own economic strength and not out of loans. Thanks to this, we will be able to spend more on the social sector next year, free catering, job creation, free textbooks, broadening family tax incentives, education, sport, as my fellow Member has just said and in the field of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the area of culture from the chapters of the budget before us. This is an immensely important sector that affects all people, children, adults, and pensioners, which contributes to our commitment to the National Creed of the Fundamental Law of Hungary:. We believe that, after decades leading to the moral upheaval of the twentieth century, we need spiritual and spiritual renewal inexhaustible. Let's see what priority funding targets are in next year's budget. First, let's look at the community's cultural and artistic fields. The amount of aid will remain available for the cultural area in 2016. We provide HUF 19 426,7 million in support of library, public education and museum tasks. Our declared goal is to strengthen the prominent role of cultural festivals. The budget allocates HUF 250 million in extra money to support the prestigious festivals, international, cross-border and other national art and community festivals and cultural events. Our priority is also to ensure that everyone meets cultural values and that everyone can participate in the process of creating cultural value. To achieve this goal, we will build, develop and operate the basic cultural care system. Our important goal is also to make citizens and communities of settlements a source of social and economic development of their place of residence. We want to serve this goal by developing the cultural community development tool system. Development and sample programmes, professional programmes and cooperation for these purposes, as well as proposals and research, will be at the expense of the line. For this purpose, we have HUF 100 million in the budget for next year. In this context, we support local authorities in maintaining the museum institutions, providing public library care and public education activities. 19 institutions will receive HUF 2595 million in support of the county-wide urban museums. The central budget contributes HUF 2851.5 million to support the state tasks of county libraries, with one of their priority tasks being the organisation of library provision for small settlements under 5,000 inhabitants in the county area. This is linked to the additional support of the county libraries for small settlement library purposes, which is HUF 1909,7 million. This support currently provides resources for the task of a network of 2450 small settlements, thus allowing the delivery of modern and quality cultural public services even to the smallest settlements. The county town town and the municipality of Szentendre will have HUF 705,7 million available this year to support its public education tasks. Last year's normative increase provided support for the public library and public education tasks of municipal authorities in 2016. In the framework of this, the municipalities will have HUF 8721 million, but at least HUF 1 million per settlement. We will also provide support for the museum institutional tasks of the municipal authorities, which is HUF 985 million in the same amount. The municipal government of Budapest will support its museum, library and public education tasks in 2016 for HUF 679,4 million. In addition, the budget provides an additional HUF 679,4 million to support the public education tasks of the metropolitan district authorities. Let us now look at some of the priorities that will be covered by the 2016 budget, if this House will accept it; I hope it will. For the development of the Metropolitan Grand Circus, HUF 3.5 billion. The development of the Budapest Zoo and Plant Garden is HUF 5 billion in the municipal chapter. The Liget Budapest project will be completed with HUF 19.1 billion, which will be added to the stability reserve for another HUF 10.3 billion. The Eiffel base of the Opera House, which will be implemented in Stone Mine, is included in the draft budget with HUF 2 billion. This is complemented by an additional HUF 2 billion in the Stability Reserve. Forints 30.8 million can be used for cross-border public education. To increase the success of the night of the 2016 museums, the amount of targeted support will increase by HUF 5 million. The Hungarian National Museum will receive a HUF 20 million bonus for operating expenses related to the development of Sárospatak. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me, at the end of my speech, to thank all the experts working in the cultural field, who are implementing the tasks and objectives described in the budget on a daily basis in order to ensure the well-being of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-27-115	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On the way to the end of the first day of debate, I must say that Béla Turi-Kovács, among the pro-government speakers, mentioned issues, partly critically and partially, stating the facts that are not traditional in a pro-government speech during the budgetary debate. He said that the growth of Hungarian GDP was essentially due to the automotive industry and EU investment, of course, to the agriculture, for which he also expressed criticisms. His words are obviously thoughtful, and I have to say that in his spirit, it would be in everyone's interest to say sentences in this debate that are not only about how current frameworks can be redistributed, but also about how budget resources, incomes and the growth of the Hungarian economy can grow. It was a pleasure to hear this part of the story, and it was also a pleasure to hear criticism in this regard, as in the context of agriculture, he said that he was not satisfied with the land traffic law, and he also said that the countryside, the population of small settlements, did not feel the growth of the Hungarian economy. But East Hungary doesn't feel it either, as long as we're in the automotive industry. I have made several proposals - and I hope that this will be the goal - to create a automotive centre in eastern Hungary, too, in Miskolc. [[18.40]] Therefore, in Miskolc, a automotive centre should be established, which could also lead to significant GDP growth and could have a particularly stimulating effect in the region. We cannot be satisfied with the fact that if EU investments are made with high efficiency, but are used, because, in the long term, the strengthening of Hungarian SMEs, which has not been mentioned, could also mean the prosperity of the Hungarian economy, especially if they are able to export and obtain an export market. By the way, you have talked a lot about this, and you have ambitious goals, with very little results for the time being. And since Secretary of State Palkovics has asked to speak here, he has mentioned SMEs and has mentioned the issues of R &amp; D innovation, on which little progress is being made. Much more serious resources would be needed in the budget for this type of purpose, also in areas in the country, I am thinking of the East-Hungarian territories where this is really important. In view of this, I would add that the sources of education in the budget are virtually stagnating. So I would say that if we were to increase the framework, SMEs, exports, agriculture, then these should be welcomed back in the budget. First, here are some thoughts about budget planning. It is not common for Parliament to start negotiating the budget so early. You brought in the budget once before in June 2012, but it wasn't accepted, it was later. This obviously allowed for attacks, and this budget could be criticised for a long time before its adoption, but even though it was brought in early, it had to be amended seven times thereafter. This is also a unique situation in Europe, and it is traditionally the case that, at the end of December, Parliaments will be adopted and governments will be present at the height of November. So I think it's a good diagnosis that the government actually wants to win a year and a half without conflict on this case. How much can happen in a year and a half, I will not tell you in an economic environment on which I would like to mention Greece's question at this moment, the question of its financing, or the development of GDP in Germany, the extent of inflation, how this is going to develop. There may be a lot of uncertainties that already make it clear that this budget will have to be amended a lot later. We've heard a lot about processes since 2010. The improvement in the balance of public finances - many opposition representatives said so, but I think so too - is apparent. In part, with regard to the take-up of 3000 billion private pension funds, as this has also reduced the deficit, only modestly, the government debt, since it has actually disappeared on the hair of the source, and the government debt has already increased significantly in nominal terms, but I think that if we look at the figures correctly, we can add this to the situation, because this former resource has also been spent. The pensions of the future have been used in this respect. As a criticism, we must say again that poverty has increased in the country, a number of statistics prove this. Basically, social differences have increased. When the individual speakers say, let us say, in relation to the single-key tax, how many beneficiaries of the single-key tax are there are indeed social groups that were better off with the single-key tax, of course, who have higher incomes; but, basically, they have changed the social security system at many points, the sources of the budget have been rearranged. The result was that many people today live worse in real terms than in 2010 and that the number of people living below the minimum of living has increased by more than one million. That's not acceptable. It would be partly the budget's task to reduce these differences. In fact, the employment situation has improved slightly, which has been significantly improved by public work and by the inclusion of workers working abroad. The improvement in the primary labour market is modest. There is indeed a slight improvement, but it is far more modest than what you are talking about. The investment climate is still bad. This was discussed on television last night by Attila Chikán, one of the ministers of the first Orbán government. Maybe they believe him more than they believe in opposition representatives. The government is largely responsible for the weakened forint. Here we experienced some 15 percent forint weakening. And if we observe welfare expenses in the budget, technically, if we don't take pensions, they stagnate. In fact, unemployment benefits are being reduced by the government, and István Tukacs has already said a lot about spending on health care. The number of people talking about the drastic difference between, for example, the health status of a region in the north of Transdanubia and, let's say, the health status of Western Transdanubia, the stage in which the first disease is expected, the more serious disease among people, the difference of 9-10 years. So it is clear that the country is still breaking up, and this is reflected in the state of health. Less spending on the functioning of hospitals next year will only make this situation worse. Some thoughts about the wage situation in Hungary. Making her a single key has made things a lot worse for small-time earners. It is interesting that Mihály Varga mentioned as positive at corporate tax that 19 percent is corporate tax for larger companies and 10 for smaller companies. After all, I do not understand why sja cannot be made multi-key in such a way that meaningful, tangible real wage improvements can be made for small-time earners. In this context, it is important to propose that the minimum wage should reach the minimum wage immediately. It is not acceptable that people working eight hours a day do not reach the minimum living standards in this country today. In this connection, Béla Turi-Kovács also made statements. Our proposal remains unchanged, for which we have collected hundreds of thousands of signatures in the country to reduce the VAT rate for basic foods to 5%. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] because this would indeed mean a significant real wage improvement and an increase in living standards for people who really need it. Please support our proposals. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-27-117	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In a normal time frame, Mr István Ikotity, LMP Group, asked for a word against the available timeframe. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-27-118	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Fidesz had a so-called miracle weapon when he came to government. This is the idea of György Matolcsy that, with the support of the upper and middle classes, with a specific cut in sia, about 500 billion dollars a year will be grouped into them, and this will start the economy. The idea of transferring income from the poorer to the richer and making capital, thus increasing the proportion of domestic capital, and starting up small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, which will give us jobs, has actually failed, and after a few years of shortcoming, the lower layers can also benefit from politics. This was now quite clearly clear, years ago, completely failed. The wealthy thanked me very much for the gift, and they did not start business, but took it away, reduced their debt, and repaid their mortgage. We believe that it is now high time that this system did not work to give back to the poorer layers what was taken from them. Obviously, there's a crisis in the world that started seven years ago, and the world economy still hasn't come out of it. Looking for ways out, as our lead speaker pointed out in the speech, more and more economists point out that the barrier to development - especially in an area in which we are, in peripheral and semi-peripheral countries - is clearly an increase in wealth, income and social differences. Therefore, this should be changed, because it is morally unprovoked that, while ordinary working people struggle from month to month, those who earn millions of dollars without performance, and those who work around power, have enormous wealth and even benefit from the current tax reduction. Actually, they're the ones who have the benefit. Due to the decline in wages, emigration is increasing, and not only among young cosmopolitans in quotes. In rural settlements this can be seen as a significant number of young people working abroad. The Hungarian countryside, if they are there, they see that it is simply revealed, sorry, empty. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Find out. Yeah.]] As before in Romania or Bulgaria, where during the decade after the change of regime, changes have taken place that have also been virtually empty regions, smaller settlements and villages there have become empty. [[18.50]] You are expressing with great voice the need to fight economic immigrants. It is not possible to agree even on the very obvious problem that the problem here is not really with immigrants, but with emigrants, so it is with emigration itself. Even if you take countless steps in population policy using various means to increase birth numbers or to support childbearing, it will not work, because emigration is much stronger. And the antidote to this emigration is to see these people at home, to imagine their future, to start a family here, not even to go abroad for a shorter period of time, because they will receive the right wages at home. What we see from the current budget - once again a very serious omission - is that this could have been done, even in relation to health care. Health care workers - where there is a huge emigration - asked for a 50 percent increase. They calculated the amount involved; some luxury investments should have been taken back to this, and this could have been achieved relatively simply. They did not do this, but instead we see these sums being spent on meaningless investments, these collected taxes are being used for purposes from which the Nabobs are enriched, courtiers are getting rich, not the people who are doing the real work, who are doing real production, who are actually working for the society of the country in the service of the people. For those who live from month to month, so a very large proportion of those who live on wages and income - we know that from statistics - have a large share of them with a minimum wage. These people don't have a vision, they don't have a long-term vision, they don't know how they're gonna make a living in ten years, where their grandkids are gonna be, maybe they're gonna keep in touch with them on Skype or on the phone, but they're not gonna be able to see them except for a photo, they probably do. However, if a family, some people, the cells of society do not have a vision of what country they want in ten years' time, then this means that unfortunately the nation does not have a vision of what the idea is, how its fate will be; a nation will be what members of its society think of it today in ten years' time. For these reasons, says the May Other Politics, that what we have in front of us is a timid, small relocations, but timid, taking greater steps is not a mere budget, and a budget of dereliction, poverty and hopelessness. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-27-119	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-27-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Towards the end of the first day of the budgetary debate, allow me to give you a few thoughts, first of all, on the opinions, proposals and criticisms that have been expressed today. Firstly, I would like to thank the government parties for their speeches, who have clearly come to know the draft budget, and have presented the content of the budget, the size of the amounts to be spent for each purpose, their growth, their social policy objectives, and how this will be achieved. I believe that, by providing support for the budget, the governing parties are both reassuring and, on the other hand, they have the right arguments and knowledge and readiness to defend this draft budget bill in the remaining 24-hour debate. What the opposition said, I was trying to sum up here what methods the opposition had chosen to give its own opinion. One of the things I have written myself is that the opposition often does not say the facts, as if it did not know the reality of economic policy results. We could also say that he is simply not telling the truth, or perhaps it could be said that he would like to say something big, so that it can be recognized that he is oppositional, and that he does not accidentally fail to hear or watch his speech, that he misunderstands that he acknowledges, say, Hungary's economic performance, and that he does not give, in the tax law of 2016 or in the budget, even this will appear. I'll give you some examples. For example, it has been said that pensions are falling or that Fidesz has destroyed the pension system or that family support is not increasing; this has also been said, each party has said a large or more. I don't know what this is for, I think it's wrong. I do not think that this political support is further ahead, but in a budgetary debate it is absolutely inappropriate to say things that are simply, factually not true just to make them heard. What the three opposition parties fully agreed on is that the economic policy results of the government, Hungary, are being taken away, not recognised, or interpreted differently; the result is not a result, which is growth, it is not growth. There is something behind everything that is not true, it cannot simply be true, as if the opposition would not believe that Hungary is capable of doing what it has done in the last five years. Everyone else in the world already believes it, so the IMF acknowledges that the European Union, the European Commission, already recognizes it, the rating agencies already recognize it, the leaders of the European countries recognize it, and what is more, we are now at the point that the presidential candidate in Poland is campaigning to do what they are doing in Hungary, what Viktor Orbán is doing, and then wins the election with it. But in Hungary, we are still saying that opposition parties do not recognise the government's macroeconomic results, so they doubt the GDP increase, they do not acknowledge the employment results, that they work with 440 to 450 thousand more people than they did during the change of government. They are trying to force him to say that, oh, this is public employment, and they do not create value; but if they do not create value, then how did Hungary have 3,6 percent of its GDP in 2014, the highest in the European Union? Now, in the last speech, the opposition does not recognise an investment rate of more than 20 percent - hopefully this high in 2016 as well. I don't know where that leads. The problem is that the opposition is drawing completely wrong conclusions from this and, in my opinion, it is setting the wrong direction for the country. Rather, we should recognise the results and say how else this should be addressed, because the fundamental task of the opposition is to provide an alternative, and, of course, to criticize the governing parties, it also tells us how this could be done better. Well, we've heard very little of that here today. From the criticism, from the fact that nothing is good in this country, what the whole world recognizes is no good, we have heard a lot; but otherwise what should be done better is not. And as far as the sovereign debt is concerned, it is simply a smile. So the MSZP, who raised the debt by HUF 8000 billion, from 50 to 80 percent of the government debt compared to GDP, now that the government debt is falling by GDP, asks for a nominal increase in government debt. This is simply an economically incomprehensible number! [[19.00]] But after Jobbik and the MSZP took this tough criticism from Jobbik, the problem now is that nominally the amount is larger and the level of government debt is increasing year after year, which cannot be interpreted anywhere in the world, only here in Hungary opposition parties have now invented this concept. Then let's see!Hungary's total product grew by HUF 8500 billion from 2010 to 2016, this is a certain GDP. By contrasting how much it will grow nominally - let's talk about it this way, I'm going to play this game - a maximum of 4000 billion. For 8500, the 4000 increase is not 50 percent. If Hungary's debt was below 50 percent of GDP, as Fidesz would have done in six years, then I think the country would be proud of it. Therefore, this is not recognised, which is also highlighted in the report by the European Commission, that Hungary is in a good position to reduce public debt, which is simply not recognised by the opposition. What is more, he says that interest expenditure does not decrease, while there are 900 billion in next year's draft budget, and this was HUF 1100-1200 billion. Now, even if the opposition believes that, it will certainly not be able to give the country a proper vision. Then the next huge statement and statement that the country has become poorer is greater poverty. I recommend that everyone read the OECD study published on 21 May. So does the opposition. And then maybe you'll realize that you're not sure if you're telling the truth. This report is based on the 2013 context, while in the OECD countries the difference between the poorest and the richest 10 percent income is on average 9.6 times, while in Hungary it is only 7.2 times. So it's below the OECD average. On the one hand. On the other hand, there is a so-called relative poverty rate, which is 10.1 percent in Hungary, for example, 10.4 percent in Poland. This is also below the OECD average. And this is based on the 2013 incomes when 2014 was an outstanding marketing year, so the next report is probably even better than that. Not to mention that Hungary is referred to as a positive example of the poverty reduction impact of child care services. Indeed, it recognises government steps aimed at providing children with various services, free textbooks, free meals, and more for families with lower incomes who have children. So there are those who acknowledge it; I recommend this study to the opposition's attention. And as far as the alternative is concerned, the biggest and most important task I think would be a responsible opposition party, that was a problem. I didn't really find one at MSZP. István Tukacs explained something that health care should do something. He didn't know it when he was on the wheel, he doesn't know it now. But he knows there's something to do. Perhaps at MSZP I found only one alternative to reducing the VAT on basic foods. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, And then everything in Hungary will be resolved. The LMP has put down a welfare package, the essence of which is to reduce VAT, increase family allowances, and what was very, very good is that the scope of family tax relief should be extended. So, in essence, he recognised Fidesz's policy on family tax relief. Of course, it would increase salaries, reduce contributions. Well, we'll try to figure out how much this LMP package would mean in the next year's budget, but certainly hundreds of billions of forints. The LMP has ideas, but it can't tell us what will become of jobs, what will increase GDP, how the budget revenue will increase, but it can already divide it. In VAT, family allowances, contributions. Thank you very much. There's been an idea for that. We learned from Gábor Vona, the lead speaker of Jobbik, that Jobbik does not want to leave the European Union. Perhaps that was his main point in the budget debate. Jobbik has now come to the point where it does not want to leave the European Union. In the next budget debate, we will probably get to the point where Jobbik supports our membership of the European Union and does not want a referendum on whether we should remain members of the European Union. For some reason, Jobbik has changed his mind about this and that. I'm sure of our membership of the EU. In fact, as I understand it, yesterday was also the day when Jobbik denied that he had ever said something like that, that he wanted to leave the European Union. Well, he doesn't want to now. I would like to draw the attention of Gábor Vona to the fact that there is no three-year outlook in the draft budget. It's true it was posted on Friday, otherwise on a legal deadline. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Read from page 313 to page 331 and you will see that the three-year outlook is included. Send word to the party president. As for alternatives, allow me to tell you what statements have been made. The Jobbik says if there's work, there's everything. I'm asking you how this is different than what the Fidesz has said so far and what Fidesz is doing. What is at the heart of our policy is that jobs need to be created, that where the competition sector is not yet able to absorb the unemployed, there is public employment, but that is only the first step, and it will go to the market. So, actually, the sentences as an alternative are basically identical to what the Fidesz is doing right now. That's what the LMP said, by the way. He said that decent work should go from one to the other. If you can't find this in this budget, in Fidesz's policy so far, through the job protection action plan, career models, reduction of rent and personal income tax policy, then there is a big problem. So I think it has been useful and instructive for the first six hours of the debate on the draft budget bill, but at least for this opposition, let me say, we want a more realistic country knowledge, a situational awareness and a more prepared alternative for the next 24 hours. Thank you all for participating in this debate today and we will continue tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else would like to speak out against the time frame available. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned and will continue at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the administrative and technical implementing agreement concluded under the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border implementation of the consequences of road safety traffic offences and, in this context, the amendment of certain laws until closure follows. The submission is T/4823. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-27-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is an increasing number of cases of illegal acts which threaten the safety of road transport due to the abolition of internal borders and the increase in international passenger and freight traffic when the infringer is a foreign national. In such cases, the authorities of the State in which the infringement is committed are often not available because they do not have access to the driver, operator or vehicle data. The payment of fines imposed as standard penalties is practically dependent on the willingness of the perpetrator to pay. There is still a lack of effective legal instruments to allow production in another State. Another problem is the different legal judgement of the same acts in each state. [[19.10]] This greatly undermines the transport morale, as foreign drivers feel that they are not under threat of sanctions and are therefore more prone to ignore the rules on transport. The purpose of the bill before this House is twofold. On the one hand, in order to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences 2015/413. The transposition of the rules of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into Hungarian law and, on the other hand, the cross-border enforcement of the consequences of road safety related traffic offences in Bulgaria, Croatia and the Republic of Austria signed at Mátraháza on 11 October 2012 and the 2012 CLXX. the publication of an Administrative and Technical Implementation Agreement signed at Sankt Pölten on 4 May 2015 pursuant to an Agreement published by law. This could open the way for the effective application of the provisions once the necessary technical developments have been completed. As a result, communication between States will be carried out electronically between designated authorities. Under the agreement, the recovery of fines will be mandatory above the threshold of EUR 50. It is important to note that the amount of money to be recovered belongs to the executing Member State, so the fine for the violation of Hungarian citizens abroad would constitute the revenue of the Hungarian State, while the fine imposed on the foreign perpetrator of the infringement in Hungary would constitute the revenue of the State of the perpetrator. It is therefore clear that, if the proposal is adopted, the violations committed by foreigners in Hungary will not be without consequences. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-05-27-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Administrative and Technical Implementation Agreement lays down the administrative and technical details necessary for the implementation of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border implementation of the consequences of road safety related traffic offences, as mentioned by the State Secretary, in Mátraháza on 11 October 2012. The basic agreement is CLXX 2012. It was published by law, the adoption of which was supported by the MSZP. The legal publication of the administrative and technical implementation agreement is due to the fact that the data content of the electronically structured forms envisaged for each form of cooperation, the list of each type of data is contained in the Appendices to the Agreement, and due to the legal requirements for the processing of personal data, it requires publication at this source level. 1013 on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences It is intended to transpose the rules of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into Hungarian law, so that the bill amends four relevant laws. In order to determine the identity of the owner and keeper of the vehicle concerned, the authority may, in the case of an offence involving a vehicle registered in another Member State of the European Union which transposes the notified European Union Directive, order automated searches in the national vehicle registration file of the Member State in which the vehicle is registered, indicating the total registration number, the date and time of the infringement and the infringement. In addition, it shall provide the national contact point of the Member State transposing the above EU Directive with automated access to the data specified by the bill by electronic means on the basis of the full registration number of the vehicle, the date and time of the infringement and the data request containing the indication of the infringement. Since the adoption of the basic agreement was supported by the MSZP, the Hungarian Socialist Party also supports the adoption of an implementing agreement containing the technical provisions necessary for the practical implementation of the forms of cooperation set out therein. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy applauds.]]
u2015-05-27-125	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mobile development has already shown itself not only its advantages but also its downsides. As a result of the rapid proliferation of motor vehicles, the number of road accidents and personal injuries and tragedies has steadily increased. The country is a transit country, most accidents occur in the summer months, and the traffic passing through Hungary is significantly increased, so any proposal that has a positive impact on road safety is welcomed by the Jobbik faction. The Jobbik wants safety on the roads, we're part of the order. Although, of course, this does not mean accepting the mere collection of money, the often ridiculous additional actions carried out by the police instead of real law enforcement, the disproportionate penalties imposed immediately because of the lack of language prism, the elimination of citizens by quota. However, the weight of the issue is well indicated by the fact that by 2020, traffic accidents in the world will require 1 million 900 000 lives per year, significantly exceeding the current 1 million 300,000 annual deaths. Half of the traffic accident victims are pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists, i.e. unprotected road users. According to the WHO, World Health Organization, the number one cause of death among 15-29 age groups is no longer a viral or fatal disease, but a preventable and avoidable fatal traffic accident. In Hungary, according to statistics, people die this way every 12 hours; every year the population of an average village in Somogy, but there was also a black year in 2002, when 1400 people lost their lives on the roads. On average, pedestrians and passengers are responsible for accidents at an annual rate of 8 per cent, with 92 per cent of accidents being caused by drivers. Based on the final accident statistics published by the KSH, Hungary had a total of 15 847 road accidents with injuries in 2014 and 1 percent more than in 2013. The number of fatal accidents increased by 6.1 percent last year, from 540 to 573. There was a 0.6 and 0.9 percent increase in heavy and light-damaged traffic accidents. Two thirds of all road accidents involving personal injury were accidents with light injuries. The proportion of serious accidents in all accidents is close to 30 percent, with a death rate of 3.6 percent last year. According to KSH data, in 2014 a total of 20 750 people were injured or killed in a traffic accident in Hungary's roads. This represents a 0.3 percent increase. As regards drunken accidents, the favourable trend continued in 2014, with final data showing that in 2014 there were 3.7 percent fewer road accidents in comparison to 1662 accidents in 2013, i.e. a total of 1601 injured road accidents affected by alcoholic beverages. So, given the figures, the transport agreement, which has just been concluded between Austria, Croatia, Bulgaria and Hungary, is indeed an important step. The Convention allows fines for infringements committed abroad between Member States to be collected and the proposal before us addresses administrative and technical implementation issues. [[19.20]] The agreement does not harmonise national legislation, but eight traffic offences as defined in the relevant Directive of the European Union serve as background legislation. In the case of these eight facts, the infringement and administrative penalties imposed in each other's countries shall be recognised and enforced independently of the legal status of the parties. These eight facts are as follows. Exceeding the speed limit, where it is good to realize that it is responsible for about 40 percent of fatal road accidents, i.e. only in Hungary, more than 200 people are killed every year; family tragedies, causing many painful, tragic accidents. It is enough to refer to the case of Irish Tobin, who took the life of a 2 and 5-year-old innocent child on the sidewalk in the spring of 2000. But it could easily have been the death of completely innocent people in the autumn of 2014 by the irresponsible figure, who, at the speed of the M7 above 330, was speeding like a decoy, who must have turned his Lamborghini into a Porsche. It is important that, if necessary, we reduce the non-use of safety belts by the force of law, as experts prove that its use has saved at least one million people worldwide since the Nils Bohlin, who worked at Volvo, patented it in 1958. According to a survey in the EU, this invention saves the lives of 13,000 people a year, and if used, more than 4,000 people could escape meaningless death. In Hungary, however, since the beginning of 1976, the use of safety belts has been mandatory at the first meetings. It is good to know that, according to traffic safety accident research, 47 percent of car drivers who died in the accident, 36 percent of passengers in the front and 65 percent of passengers in the rear did not use their seat belts. The penalty for driving through the red light is also self-evident to us. The fourth fact is drunk driving, which Jobbik doesn't consider a bohemian virtuoso at all. It is recalled that in 2012 Eva Rezesova ran on the highway at an X5 speed of 165 km/h to a Fiat Punto in alcoholic condition, and four people became his victim. After the fourth fact, driving under the influence of drugs can also become a source of meaningless and outrageous tragedies, as is the sad example of the Austrian hummeres who hit a Hungarian policeman on death. Obviously, there is no particular need to explain the failure to wear a helmet and the sanctioning of traffic in the forbidden lane and the unlawful use of a mobile phone or other means of communication while driving. Trendy or practical or not, mobiles increase the possibility of an accident by four times, cause a 50 percent decline in reaction time, which results in a similar result to a drunken influence in response to reaction, and even 30 percent worse than a 0.9 thousand-dollar drunk driver with one hand. Therefore, in the light of the data mentioned above, it is not surprising that Jobbik will support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-27-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the support of the Members in the debate. I trust that the bill currently under discussion will help the safety of the Hungarian people, the people living in Hungary and Hungary, so it will meet the interests of Hungary. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on certain laws necessary for the implementation of the e-card and on the draft law amending Act L of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies until closure. The submission is T/4857. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-27-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The bill we are discussing now concerns three issues: the amendment of the laws necessary to create an e-card, the amendment of the law necessary to clarify the operation of the so-called assembly register, the amendment of the information security law and the related laws. An electronic identity card has already been issued in 16 Member States of the European Union, which contains not only the data required for traditional identification, but also a number of electronic services. Those with electronic IDs can save time and effort by allowing them to conduct their official business from home, and the services can be used day and night on a continuous basis. The adoption of an e-card can also save businesses as it can replace their own customer identification systems. The e-card appears as a new type of ID card. The new identity card has significant differences compared to the previous one. It includes new electronic functions: electronic identification, the possibility of electronic signatures and the electronic passport function. In addition to the data required for visual and e-functions, the electronic storage element contains the citizen's fingerprints, tax identification and social security identification, and may include the citizen's signature from the age of 12. The main rule of validity is 6 years. It is the legal representative's duty to provide the minor or the disabled person with an identity card. A travel restriction imposed on terrorist offences may be entered in a coded form on the card. The e-card is designed with a technological solution that certain elements can only be read electronically by the person who is entitled to do so and can only know the data that he is entitled to handle, i.e. it cannot be possible for certain public or other bodies to abuse the data. The fingerprints shall not be registered, and shall be recorded in a manner other than those held under other rights. The fingerprints will only be used using the passport function and for police identification, i.e. identification of the ID and the ID. Some of the electronic functions of the card are as follows. Electronic identification enabling the identification of the person both in an online system and in a personal process. The citizen places his card in the correct card reader, he can authentically identify himself by using the PIN code. The read-out data can be used to fill out the forms quickly. An electronic signature is an optional function, if requested by the card owner, so that your ID can be used for electronic signature as a verification tool. The necessary electronic service is designated by the government, expected by NISZ Zrt. to ensure that it is not affected. For travel, the new ID card will be used in the same way as the old one. Thanks to stored fingerprints and electronic chips, you can speed up airport border crossing. The exchange of IDs is gradual, with the old expiry date, who would like to change his old ID earlier, for increased fees. [[19.30]] Persons over 65 who do not wish to use the electronic function may continue to apply for an unscheduled card. The scope of the exemption is extended by the age group of 14-18 years. Dear Parliament, In the parts of the bill relating to the collection register, it should be stressed that, contrary to what has been published in the press so far, the bill does not aim to treat separate identifiers - land, tax identification, identity - in the same way. On the basis of the rules established since 1 January 2013, the registry shall contain the encrypted contact codes of the basic personal registers and other associated registers and shall allow communication between the professional systems by means of e-link codes. The register shall not contain any natural identity data or other sectoral identification code. The role of the registry is to allow access to each specialised system without the identification required by the professional system and to identify the client through the contact code. The current proposal clarifies the rules of this merger register by reviewing the actual IT implementation. Mr President, Dear House, Another objective of the bill is to amend Act L of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies. The essential elements of the amendment are as follows. In addition to the general authority, public authorities shall be designated at the level of the government decree for facilities, systems, closed-circuit systems, electronic IT systems of the national security service for defence purposes and civil intelligence activities, which are designated as vital European or national critical facilities and systems. On the basis of the proposal, the task of the National Security Inspectorate on information security will be terminated and will be provided by the National Security Service in the future. As a government event management centre, the National Security Service has already taken part in cyber security tasks, thus strengthening its role, while concentrating the necessary expertise in one institution. The vulnerability assessment system is also being transformed. In addition to the public body designated by the government, national security-controlled operators may also undertake tasks. For bodies subject to national security protection, electronic information systems for critical systems and closed-circuit systems, a government event management centre at the National Security Service may conduct vulnerability testing. In the case of the closed electronic information systems of the Hungarian Defence Office and the Military National Security Service, as well as the information communication support systems of the Defence Council and the Government, as well as in relation to the Information Office, the investigation is carried out by its own sectoral public body, also designated by the Government. To date, GovCERT's activities have been hampered by the fact that electronic commerce and electronic communications providers were not obliged to cooperate. Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and CVIII of 2001 on certain aspects of electronic commerce services and information society services By amending the law, the bill eliminates this problem. Regulation on the management of security incidents should be highlighted. The planned activities to document, eliminate the consequences of the security incident in the electronic information system, identify the causes and responsibilities of the incident and prevent the future occurrence of similar security incidents have so far been divided between GovCERT and the sectoral event management centres. As a result of this amendment, the regulation on sectoral event control centres will be abolished. Apart from GovCERT, there will only be an event management centre at the BM National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection, the Ministry of Defence and the Information Office. In order to establish cost-effective protection proportionate to the risks, the organisation should, on the basis of its readiness to protect electronic information systems, be classified in safety levels according to the criteria set out in the legislation. A new element in the regulation is that the classification of the organisational units to be protected with higher security is separated from the body's level of safety. In English, if an organization has a higher level of protection in terms of information security within an organisation, then there is no need to achieve higher expectations for the entire organisation, so significant costs can be saved. According to the bill, if the electronic information system is affected by a serious security incident or a threat to the direct occurrence of a serious security incident resulting in damage to the essential information or personal data necessary for the operation of the system, the government event management centre may, in order to carry out its defence tasks, require the organisation to take the necessary measures to eliminate the serious security incident or to eliminate the threat. In cases requiring immediate intervention, the government event management centre may, by means of the so-called information security supervisor, apply provisional measures to the extent necessary to avoid damage to information. The Authority shall require the organisation to comply with the safety requirements laid down in the legislation and the related procedural rules. A new element in the regulation is that if the request is ignored by the organisation concerned or if the security measures proposed by the authority are not complied with on its own account and therefore a serious safety event occurs or is threatened with direct occurrence, the authority may require the body to reimburse the costs incurred to prevent the occurrence of the safety incident. I call on the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-27-131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-05-27-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, What is impossible today can be achieved tomorrow. These are the words of Professor Övegy. I believe that this quote sufficiently describes the noble objective of the T/4857 before us. It is contained in the bill on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the implementation of the e-card and of Act L of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies. Article XXVI of the Fundamental Law The State shall endeavour to implement new technical solutions and the results of science in order to improve the efficiency of its operation, the quality of public services, the transparency of public affairs and the promotion of equal opportunities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In fact, with the sentence of the Constitution quoted above, we have committed ourselves to using the results of technological progress to modernise public administration and reduce bureaucracy in order to facilitate the lives of citizens. The legislative creation of the conditions for an electronic identity card can, in my opinion, be the best example of the efficient use by the state of the technical achievements of the age. The Government's bill contains, on the one hand, the legislative amendments necessary for the implementation of the e-card and, on the other hand, the amendment of Act L of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that the following two concepts cannot be separated or separated from each other. These two concepts are electronic administration and information security, or, if you like, data protection. While we must do everything we can to ensure efficiency and the comfort of citizens, this must never be at the expense of their safety and security. In fact, if we have the opportunity to do so, we must strengthen this with continuous improvement and amendment. Data protection rules should be respected in all circumstances. [[19.40]] The principle of purpose limitation and the prohibition of linking data should apply during application. As early as 2008, the concept of the introduction of an electronic ID card was developed in the Ministry of Justice and Police in order to standardise online identification, but the Socialist Government, as in so many other ways, did not take action here either. The 2014 LXXXIII on the Single Electronic Card Emission Framework adopted in this cycle. Law created the framework conditions for merging different cards. Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Union adopted in 2014 focuses on cross-border standardisation of electronic identification. The 16 EU Member States already issue an electronic identity card. The biggest success story of the e-ID is perhaps mostly related to Estonia. The e-Personal ID can also be used electronically for document office, land office, notary, school registration, and even as a public transport pass. The Estonians can vote electronically in the local elections, in the parliamentary elections, and the census was conducted with the help of their cards. In 2012, or three years ago, 90 percent of the population had electronic cards. Pursuant to point 9 of Government Decision 1743/2014 on the tasks related to the extension of electronic administration in Hungary, a document containing an electronic storage element, suitable for identification and electronic signature, should be established to ensure that citizens are able to conduct their official business using a single document, in particular tax administration procedures and the use of social security benefits. In this way, it should be able to replace the Taj Card and the Tax Card and be able to use certain transport services. We believe that the functionality required from the e-card is most effectively achieved by the development of the ID card. The eID card can therefore serve as a tax card, a Taj card or a passport at the same time. The e-card will also be able to support the use of the services of the framework established by the introduction of a single electronic card framework in the event of the applicant's intention to do so - and I would like to point out this once again: in the event of the claimant's intention to do so. This solution can lead to ever-expanding possibilities of use and provides the basis for citizens to use a single document to deal with their official affairs and to use a single card to provide online electronic services. It should be pointed out that although the e-card will contain the Taj and the tax identification mark electronically, the submission is not intended to eliminate the Taj Card and the Tax Card. Of course, the e-card can only be used in an up-and-coming system for citizens as we see fit. After each card reader is installed, spread and the actual operation of the registry, it can be examined whether it is necessary to maintain a compulsory Taj card and tax card, or only a narrow layer will need them. The exchange of IDs will therefore take place gradually. However, the issue of a new type of card may be initiated before the expiry of the period of validity of the earlier certificate. By way of derogation from the current period of validity, the proposal proposes a uniform period of six years for citizens aged 18 and over. To reassure older people, citizens over the age of 65, if they do not wish to use electronic functions, may continue to apply for so-called traditional identity documents with a deadline of validity. Prior to the age of 18, the identity card should continue to be changed every three years due to frequent changes in the person's appearance. The applicant's fingerprints shall be recorded electronically on the identity card storage element during the exhibition, but shall only be stored on the document. In the course of the latter, the identity can be verified by electronic comparison between the person and the biological characteristic recorded electronically in the document, and the person can be connected with the document. Effective supervision of the implementation of electronic public services is also a key issue, as has been said. To this end, a single integrated supervisory body for electronic administration, national data assets, IT security and information security and the supervision of the handling of public documents was justified for the purpose of carrying out the tasks in a comprehensive, horizontal manner. The proposal before us sets out electronic contacts in IT security-related procedures and brings terminology into line. I trust that the adoption of this proposal will be subject to the adoption of Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. We are taking a big step towards achieving a proper public administration in everything, by further reducing bureaucracy, broadening and spreading electronic administration, basically making life easier for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-133	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai began with a quote, which she thought was correct with regard to the e-card. When Fidesz talks about electronic changeovers and provides for it, I suddenly thought of another quote, which is less elegant, of course, but also classic, that you should do it or not, but don't try it. 'Master Yoda,' said Master Yoda. My problem with this is that Fidesz often tries to switch electronically in many areas, but unfortunately it does not succeed. At a time when it should work, let's say, an electronic system, but the local government notaries still print out and archive each document on paper because they fear - and fear for a reason and a basis - that these systems are not safe, then I think that unfortunately, the part of the sentence is true of Fidesz's efforts to try, although he wouldn't do it, or at least do it differently. But let us go back to the beginning of this bill: about preparation, I think that it is definitely worth saying a few words. The draft bill was submitted for consultation on the government website for three days of consultation. Mr. Secretary, let me ask you, in a bill of this magnitude, what do you expect in three days? Is it true that those involved will be able to present an informed opinion in such a short period of time? Obviously, this is getting better and better to say that there was, in fact, a negotiation and conciliation of this proposal, but, from a substantive point of view, that is certainly not what it is. [[19.50]] By the way, I would add that the Act on Social Participation in the Preparation of Laws 8. According to paragraph 3 of the Act on Legislative Law, a summary of the preliminary impact assessment shall also be published together with the plan. It seems that this obligation has been violated by the Minister of the Interior, because he has not done so. This is not just a formal problem, but on this subject, where the issue of creating an institutional background is one of the most important issues, a huge content problem, I think. I also say that, by law, the law cited in Article 11 of the Act. The Minister for Preparation shall consider the opinions received and, in the case of rejected opinions, prepare a detailed summary of the grounds for refusal, which should be published on the website together with the list of opinionaries. Mr. Secretary, that didn't happen either. I guess that's because you haven't had a lot of opinions and opinions in three days. It would be good for the Secretary of State to present, at least now in the debate in Parliament, who has given his opinion on this proposal and what opinions have been expressed on it. The third, which I would like to highlight as a problem in the preparation - this is almost, I must say, the usual formal element of opposition speeches on these issues - is that we do not know the opinion of the President of NAIH, although it is legally mandatory to ask his position. There is only one piece of information, and now there are two, because I believe that hvg.hu has also published a brief summary of this, but, for example, from its interview with the Hungarian Hírlap, we can find out from the president of NAIH what he thinks about this proposal. I found a quote that says:. For example, with regard to the new electronic identity card containing social security and tax numbers, it arises whether this is not contrary to the previous position of the Constitutional Court that universal identification is prohibited, only split information systems can exist. This means that different data cannot be accessed universally with a reader. The level of protection must not be reduced. Appropriate data security must be established on the card, but also on readers. Is that created, Mr. Secretary? Because I can't read that from anywhere, and you didn't say in your introduction, in your expo, that these conditions were met. These were, at least in the press, the most important comments of the President of the Data Protection Authority. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State where the opinion of the president of the NAIH is and how we can officially know it. As I referred to this, so far, the government, when it reached for the electronic transition, is undoubtedly the way of the future, and we do not want it to be taken away either, because they are moving in the direction of electronics everywhere in the world, but unfortunately we are moving from chaos to chaos in Hungary. This is precisely why it was important to see a preliminary impact assessment on this subject, because the question is not whether it is more convenient to walk around with a card in my pocket instead of wearing five, and whether it would not be easier for me to do so in a well-functioning system, let's say, to justify my entitlement to health care instead of carrying a sheet of paper in my pocket, which, of course, is sometimes forgotten at home by everyone who doesn't go to the hospital; that's not a question, because it's obviously more convenient. But I think that the first thing that matters here is not the convenience aspects, when we want to introduce such a new tool to the Hungarian market, if you will. First of all, is infrastructure available? So I'd like to ask you if, at the district and small-town medical office, the government will ensure that, after the law comes into force, and after the card is issued, you can read these data safely there. Safely, they don't have access to, say, my tax records at the district office. Because this, I think, is a priority when we talk about this subject. Then the second question of data security is: how is data security created, under what technical conditions? I understand that the Secretary of State reassured us that it will not be possible to read with these machines, only the data to which the authority is entitled, but I will give you a list of some international examples, exactly where problems arose with foreign regulations, and today, it seems that they want to create a single card, a single one, if you will, which includes the data on which the tax office manages, also what social security manages, and what the transport police is dealing with, which is also what the address register is. So where can you guarantee, Mr. Secretary, that at all points of access, this data will be secure and only those who are entitled to read it will be able to read it? There is no mention of this not only in the proposal, but nowhere. That is to say, I'd like to ask you about your purpose, Mr. Secretary, in a sentence, how you'll be able to enforce it in a technical sense. The international examples I promised to mention are not at all reassuring and are not reassuring in countries where the electronic registration system works significantly better than in Hungary, technically, financially and in many other respects. For example, the United Kingdom, where the government gave up the plan to introduce the ePersonal Card in 2010, because they did not see a full guarantee of the integrity of private data. In the United Kingdom, honourable Secretary of State, where they are both financially and light years ahead of us from the point of view of electronic administration, I think. Losing or unauthorized access to an e-card, and misuse of a card, is also a more serious risk factor. In Germany, when the eID card was introduced in 2010, the population was assured, as you now assure us that the use of the card is absolutely safe. A weak point in the system was the card reader, which was one of the points of entry of a successful attack. To put it bluntly, Mr. Secretary of State, that is exactly what my question is, how will these equipment be, how will they be able to guarantee data security, say, in a rural practice, to stay in the example, but not just to mention the countryside, in a Budapest district office, so that there is also a machine of technical development that can fully guarantee data security. In Germany, this failed, and I hope that we will succeed in Hungary. Other times the attackers managed to redirect the browser to a cheating server and install an infected file on the user's computer instead of using the public server for online software updates. In the Netherlands, data of 150 citizens were stolen in December 2013 and the data obtained were misused. And to add a bad comment, Mr. Secretary of State: I will tell you frankly that I do not want to give the Government of Orbán the authority to do profiling so easily with regard to Hungarian citizens, with the help of a card. What I can suggest is that if you intend to introduce one of these, you should at least not be obliged to do so in the first instance; who wishes to take these risks, who takes the risks of the experimental system for the sake of comfort, can take advantage of it. Make it possible, let's say, to use the customer gate makes it easier to use such a card. Let's see what percentage of citizens want this comfort in exchange for the dangers I've just listed. So I think that, for example, such a change would be justified. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Then, Mr Secretary of State, another subject should take place in the remaining timeframe. [[20.00]] It will not be covered by the Population Registration Act by the residents of Rogán, i.e. foreigners buying the settlement policy through offshore companies, because according to the justification on page 45, they typically do not live in the country. Dear Secretary of State, If there is something and somewhere, then there is the confession that the settlement bond holders have no intention of living in Hungary, the bond business has now been exposed, if not at any other time, but surely now. They themselves wrote in their own justification that these people typically do not live in the country, but they can buy their settlement bonds for money from an offshore company that I do not wish to detail now, because I should say it is well known where it leads back. I don't think that's okay, Mr. Secretary. Then the seal of the head of state was not even dry in the 2014 Act on the Single Electronic Card Emission Framework, it has not yet entered into force, but it has already been found that its concepts and terminology are useless, because it has to deviate from its provisions on a number of points. In fact, the permanent identity card is a primary card, so the regulation currently planned does not fit the original concept. At the hearing of the bill on a single electronic card framework, the government's objective was to create a framework law so that they could apply the requirements of individual sectoral laws when introducing specific electronic cards. Compared to this, the function of the primary card is now placed on the ID card, and from the justification it appears that this is a new idea or a new idea compared to the 2008 draft, or the planned system was not thought out when the framework law was created, or it is feared that it is not now. It is not eligible, Mr Secretary of State, to amend the law on the police. According to the text:. In the performance of the police's duties, if the identity of the data subject is to be established, he may, for the purposes of establishing the identity of the data subject, process the identity card containing the fingerprints of the data subject. This data may be compared with the fingerprint data of the data subject on the basis of the consent of the data subject or, if the law permits, on the basis of the data subject's consent. This provision does not comply with the requirements of purpose limitation due to the twist during the performance of the task. In addition, if the identity card of the person concerned is in place, the identity of the person concerned cannot be questioned, since the ID itself will prove the identity. This proves our concern that, in some cases, the identification card is not sufficient, and fingerprints are needed to establish the identity. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr President, I will continue to speak later, in this case this was the time frame. Thank you very much. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-05-27-135	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Imre Vejkey, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-05-27-136	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government prepared it and T/4857. He submitted to the National Assembly a bill for the introduction of the ID card, the address card, the tax card, the social security card and the passport in the case of travel within the Schengen area, bringing together an e-card in a document, which can be extended to use transport discounts or even as student ID. The e-card will be introduced in an emerging system, which means that from 1 January 2016 the outgoing identity cards or IDs will be exchanged continuously, while the underlying IT system has also been established. Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of the e-card is to enable our citizens to identify their identity using a single document and to deal with their official affairs in the course of the tax administration procedure and the use of social security benefits. This means that the e-card must be able to replace both the Taj Card and the Tax Card, in addition to identity identification, and its suitability should be designed in such a way as to enable the use of the e-card to be used even for transport services. The ePass card function makes the travel of Hungarian citizens within the European Union more comfortable, using the electronic travel document function. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new document will include the name, sex, place and date of birth, nationality, mother's name and photograph. If the citizen is 12 years old, the new identity document will also include his signature. In addition, the new ID card contains an optically legible chip that records the citizen's fingerprints, electronic signature data, the owner's social security ID, the tax identification number and the electronic unique identifier of the identity card. The procedure for obtaining a new identity document will be free of charge for all persons under the age of 18 and who do not have any other identification document. The identity document will also be free of charge for citizens who have reached the age of 65 and ask for an identity card without a deadline, as well as for those who are subject to a ban on travelling abroad - because they will be able to receive an identity card with an external sign, a card with which they will not be able to leave abroad - and finally for those who need to change the ID. In all other cases, the fee for the ID will be 5 thousand forints. Ladies and Gentlemen, We have just heard siren voices saying that the bill goes against data protection, relativises the principle prohibition on the transfer of citizens' personal data and the interconnection of data processing for different purposes, and breaks through the universal identification ban. The above concerns raised by the opposition do not actually exist with regard to the bill, as the bill does not change the split information systems, and the powers and the rules on data processing do not change, i.e. they will still need to be actively involved in the management of the data. There is no biometric facial identification system in the bill, the data is stored only electronically, and reading the card requires the personal involvement of the cardholder's national. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the above, it should be stated that the e-card recognition system will only be able to read the data from the card, so to speak, or from the underlying database, for which the legal authorizations have traditionally existed today. Based on all this, please support the T/4857. The KDNP faction supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-27-137	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-05-27-138	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, too, to say that the timing is not very optimal for us to discuss this bill. Not only is it not optimal, as my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy said... - here many times when you are a second opposition speaker, you have to repeat some of the ideas, not because I have now faced these facts, but also because we have these concerns, among other things, that we have had three days to discuss, we would like to say them in the same way. [[20.10]] In three days, such a law cannot be sufficiently reviewed, it cannot be made clear to society what it is, and even professional organisations can only achieve that, let's say, through the media, the main concerns that have been raised are transmitted to the government in the death of a horse. That's one thing. So for three days, I think it's a category that's hard to place. Maybe if they hadn't, in some ways, I'm not saying it would have been better, because, of course, every negotiation, no matter how short it takes, is better than nothing, but it's pretty cynical to give such a short time. The other is that on the first day of the budget hearing, it has to be brought in, which I don't understand. It has not been a practice so far to negotiate laws at the same time as the budget which, by the way, were before the government and could have been tabled sooner and later. Why this week? That could mean two things. Either they did not know in advance that the budget would be scheduled for this week, and the budget came in in such a way that it could not be calculated, or this law was consciously introduced at this time, because after eight o'clock, after being broadcast on television, the proposals presented by Members here to the Parliament tired of the budget debate can pass so that, in fact, hardly anyone outside the profession can get what we say here from the opposition side. So it's not elegant at all, and I'm sure if the government had asked you not to negotiate this week, this could have happened. I would now like to highlight one or two points on the proposal. Of course, I could say that the direction could be good, and we are pleased that something has started in our country in the field of electronic administration. This is often a bumpy thing, but I am in favour of electronic administration, but this must be done by including appropriate guarantees. As the media has appeared and the profession has said so, it is not about data protection, for example, as a barrier to development. Speaking of the media, I should also like to say that the Secretary of State has said in his chair what has appeared in the media. So you read the media, but you may not take these opinions into account or ask for them in time. Later, it can be said that the proposal is before the Parliament, there is not much room for amendment, but only one or two pro-government amendments can be accepted. By the way, it was also interesting to me how my fellow Member Vejkey reacted, although I do not want to hurt him. Obviously, a text has been drawn up in an expert manner and my fellow Member has said that it is already assumed that the opposition will not support this proposal. I think that suggests something. The fact that the people who put it together are your background experts - and this is also true of the Secretary of State's comment - could have guessed that there would be opposition to the proposal. If that had not been the case, you would have said that there is certainly much to be done about these described ideas and amendments to the law, but that there is no criticism in it. Therefore, they should have been sure that this proposal would be good for the opposition to support it. But, as I have said, the aim of this proposal can only be supported. I must also say that we already have a problem with the name: the term e-card is not a common concept in Hungarian law. So if we had said that it was a permanent ID card, and that it would have been included in the title of the law, and otherwise the electronic implementation would have been opened at the level of the law, we would have made progress. By the way, besides the address, if I remember correctly or read the proposal well, this is in relatively few places. So I'm feeling a little bit of a problem right now. I will go on to give you some examples of why some part of it is unthinkable. Let's get out of practice. In an ascending system, but this new permanent I.D. will be introduced, or, as you call it, an e-card that will contain all kinds of data if you want to go to a lawyer in the future and sign a sales contract, your tax number or, where applicable, your Taj number may also be required. He is very proud of the citizen that he has a new card that contains these data. They're handing over the parties to the lawyer because, for example, they want to buy a property, they're handing over their cards saying, "Dear lawyer, there's a tax identification mark on it." The only problem is, it's on it, but it's not readable, it's digitally found on it. The law states that the citizen may check these data with the relevant government-appointed authorities. What will this mean in practice? The seller and the buyer will walk to the first body designated by the government, I'm guessing it'll be some kind of steering window and check these data there. How he does it, what we can compare it to, if he doesn't have it on anyone else's file, it's a big question, but let's just say they tell him it's the data. If you go back to the lawyer and you say yes, we've checked it, it's got the data on it and it's correct, so the lawyer won't be far ahead, because he's got to check these data, too. In the current state of the law, I did not find that it was possible for the lawyer to check these important data from the card, and neither did it, since the verification does not, to my knowledge, cover it up, that he could ask, say, for a public certificate, say, a certificate of authority as to what his tax number is; they will not be able to issue it at the government windows on the basis of these rules. So there's gonna be a stalemate: there's this number on the card, and he's gonna have to prove it in some way, but it's not gonna happen. This could have been corrected, of course, as I said, by issuing an official certificate to the body designated by the government, let us now call it a government window. Here, by the way, a lot of things will appear at the level of government decrees, there will be provisions under the law empowering them, but we do not see that either. In any case, this is a lifelong example, or the conclusion of a sales contract for lawyers will be difficult in practice. Not to mention that, of course, we are pleased that we need a card instead of five, as my fellow Member Bárándy said, but in vain, you write down that you cannot link these databases, such as a tax office, social security, traffic police, address records. What guarantees are there that even the secret services will not have a assembly code, and a complete profiling, indeed, as has been said, cannot be realized? I'll tell you what, nothing. Let's write it down in the law. Who can even check the Secret Service now? At most, the government, because the National Security Committee of the National Assembly is capable of many things, but not the majority of the current government, to check the real operation of the secret services. So what is technically feasible, and there is no control over it, unfortunately, knowing the last 25 years and the previous story, will be technically realized. By the way, a lot of organisations, such as the SAO, thought that this could give the state an unwarranted power, and, as I said, by putting it together, the state could even take things towards profiling. Compared to this, Attila Péterfalvi, as he appeared in the press - and indeed, his statements must also be hunted down from the press - sees no problem. [[20.20]] If everything is true, he said that he did not see a fundamental problem - it is his job to say so - but there is still a lack of guarantee rules in the proposal. I don't know if that's how this statement came out, but if there's a guarantee problem, he should be able to see basic problems, too. Because the fundamental problem is not that if the guarantee were to be included, it would not be, or that the government might say, orally, that it will not link these data. That's not a guarantee. The guarantee is that, let's say, it is not technically feasible, or properly regulated in the law, in government regulations, in such a way as to reduce the possibility of this. It has also been said from professional organisations that taxable persons... Yeah, maybe I'll mix it up here, 'cause we're talking about taxpayers. So information inequalities between data subjects and data controllers will be further increased and further increased by the system. And I cannot accept that, although it has also been said that it increases equal opportunities, it may have been spoken by the lead speaker of Fidesz. I do not know that it increases equal opportunities - and this has also been said by government members and is part of the proposal - that the future will be that certain additional services can be linked to this card for extra money. What does that mean? It means that there's a card, and anyone who has the money to pay for it, let's say, using it as an electronic signature, can do that. Anyone who has, say, a mobile phone - young people may clearly have a mobile phone, but our elderly compatriots may not have it, and it is already a problem to get validation codes, because if you take this system seriously, it should not be run with a code, but it should be renewed or even a code assigned to the particular transactions. But this will be unattainable to our poorer or older compatriots. It's not equal opportunities, it's the reverse. We also do not know how much extra money is to be paid to citizens to use it, for example, in the case of an e-signature. The price of this ID will certainly rise, so more will have to be paid in the future. I understand that the cost of this is estimated at HUF 5000, but on the one hand it is just an estimate, so if it is 6,000, 8000 or 10,000, then you say that we almost hit it, that we were just a little wrong, that's all, pay it. At the moment 1500 HUF, so it will increase nearly four times, and this will certainly result in a significant cost increase for some of our fellow countrymen. Not to mention that this is obviously the case of lost, destroyed, damaged documents, and it will cost more to apply for a temporary identity card. And as such, even the exact amounts, as I said, we do not see them. Then we could talk about the need for fingerprints to be on one of these cards; this could be important for passports at best. And I understand that they are trying to create guarantees, and we accept that the fingerprints will be stored only on this card, but the future does not point to the fact that fully comprehensive fingerprint databases can be operational, because in many cases they are wrong. Mr. President, can I ask for a minute's extra time for my lead speakers so I can finish?
u2015-05-27-139	Yeah.
u2015-05-27-140	In the fight against terror, we have seen that large databases, especially in America, that handle millions of fingerprints, often drop a single individual unsubstantiatedly, for example, in May 2004 American lawyer Brandon Mayfield went by throwing his fingerprints out of the FBI system and practically accused of a terrorist act. It was due to the fact that the Spanish authorities had in the meantime identified an Algerian terrorist as the perpetrator and their fingerprints were very similar. So systems that handle millions of fingerprints - I know that is not the case yet, but in the future we can move around here - could be very wrong. The cases where a person, say, thirty years in prison in America, was sentenced, based on the unanimous opinion of four experts, say, a fingerprint; or even a man who did not die was believed to be dead, based on the fingerprint identification. So these are dangerous roads, and for some crimes, we have to look very closely at fingerprints, and it can't be arranged into large databases. That was my time. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-141	Thank you very much. The next scheduled speaker is Mr László Varju, an independent Member. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-142	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I see that we will be able to travel on a fairly broad scale following this proposal. I would like to point out, perhaps with a little surprise to the government, that I am one of those who is very interested in what is behind this proposal. I would like to try it, and I would like to see the goal that you have in mind that the idea of identity of the person or of electronic signature, administration as soon as possible is enforced, and that the many or more cards we are using should be released in such a way that, by the way, the security of my documents and electronic administration are mutually reinforcing and helpful solutions. But the fact is that, partly on the basis of the signals that my fellow Members have said, and in part during this short period of time, it seems to me that, in the current state of the law, they are trying to prove the case of cabbage entrusted to the goat, because the sensitive data that you put together in this way with the power of the law is very risky. Therefore, the awareness-raising of all organisations that would be able to prohibit the main rule of linking data processing for different purposes is certain that the law cannot handle it in this form. They should therefore either amend or not be able to obtain the aid. I understand all the intentions that, in effect, you say, point towards data protection, but you need to have more opportunities and more guarantees. This includes the fact that in Hungary's history we had a rather strange time, or the history of the personal number and its introduction in 1991, when the Constitutional Court limited the scope of administrative use of the personal number for a socially acceptable reason, in the spirit of fighting the total state. But this restriction was essentially due to a miscommunication, and after that it cost Hungary a great deal of money and time to move forward in this area. However, I have to say that Hungary has had and has achieved results in this area. This is where I am thinking, first of all, about the establishment and operation of the document offices. So there is a background that you can really rely on, but after this background, such an improvement, which you are preparing for, clearly requires a lot more legal guarantees, because in technical implementation, I see fewer concerns about terrorism or even about the person of the deceased, that they could be exchanged. I am also in a debate with my fellow Member. On the other hand, the same instrument that serves the interests of citizens in the hands of a good state is an opportunity for serious abuse in the hands of a bad state. [[20.30]] Your work in recent years does not encourage you to think only good of these intentions, but it is quite the opposite. Therefore, we cannot ignore data protection aspects. However, the most critical element of the proposal is the mandatory use of fingerprints. If, unfortunately, the words of the President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information are also available in a statement, it must be insisted that the fingerprints should appear only on the e-card, and not build a central database to approach the condition that the President's opinion could not be provided by the national Parliament. But the point is, the proposal includes, among other things, the following mandatory rules. The storage element shall contain the fingerprint in order to establish the relationship between the permanent identity card and the citizen without doubt. Now, you have forgotten to speak of this as an author, or as a pro-government speaker, that you do want to link this together hard and hard, with every citizen who's been 12 years old. The citizen is obliged to tolerate the recording of fingerprints if the citizen is required to record the fingerprints - Article 29. With the exceptions laid down in the corresponding paragraph of Section 5 of the Act - he refuses to issue the identity card, it must be refused. So this I.D. doesn't belong to the citizen. In fact, they can even increase this, and the law on the police is supplemented by the following: in the performance of the police's duties, if the identity of the data subject is necessary to establish the identity of the data subject, it may, for the purposes of determining the identity of the data subject, manage the identity card, based on the consent of the data subject, or, if the law permits, compare it with the fingerprint data concerned. So you want to do this in this form, and accordingly, I'm going to ask you if it's necessary to carry this I.D. with your fingerprints. What are the dangers of this change? Because the public's vulnerability, I don't think anyone would want it. That is why we cannot support this. What amounts could this system alone cost, and what is the potential for abuse? It is also necessary to examine this. The security of the ID card in the current system has been solved on three levels, from a technical, IT and administrative side, the photo is perfectly sufficient, without the need for fingerprints. But the fingerprints are nothing new compared to this, nothing of quality changes, so the introduction of this into the system is completely pointless. However, I would like to emphasise once again that it makes it compulsory for every citizen over the age of 12 to record fingerprints. In practice, compared to today's circumstances, it means that you want to imprison a country. So this is what happens in this form. What has been possible so far in criminal proceedings, and by incorporating appropriate guarantees there, you want to do it with one country, with every child over 12 years of age or with an adult. That's like the rest of the rule of law being crushed. Therefore, this must be protested. Now to talk about what it costs, by means, or in time, perhaps too soon, because impact assessments have at least been saved from Members of Parliament, so we have no information on this. Overall, therefore, the Democratic Coalition cannot support this proposal in this form. What you have put forward here as a proposal on the issue of fingerprints has a key role to play here. That is why we stress its unnecessaryness, its dangers and its potential for corruption. That is why there are a few points that I would like to highlight and stress why we do not support this proposal, because, in this form, this proposal is not aimed at creating electronic governance, but rather at a possible means of monitoring, controlling and collecting data from citizens. There is an example of otherwise well-functioning electronic governance within the European Union, including Estonia and Finland. In these countries, however, we need to know, and you know it very well, we need to talk about a different level of political culture. And here, in a situation where political parties, governing parties seek to destroy opposition parties, not on occasion, but on a regular basis, you can use such an opportunity in your hands to exert pressure, and this is not a malicious assumption. We do share the Company's concerns about the Freedom Rights, according to which the e-card goes against one of the most important privacy principles, the limitation to purpose, while here you are talking about the linking of personal data, transmission and processing for different purposes. Therefore, it is not possible to go forward in substance without further guarantees. Otherwise, the bill does not state anything concrete about who and how it will handle the personal data collected. In particular, it may be problematic for the same organisation to generate the codes that generate the cross-checking of personal data to be generated by the same organisation as the one that stores and uses the data, and so it occurs, which was spoken not only by me but also by my fellow Members in their comments at the previous points. The mandatory use of fingerprints for every Hungarian citizen over the age of 12 is totally unacceptable and unjustified. Thus, the opaque system can really create many concerns, causing headaches to many citizens. If there had ever been, or had been, a sense of social dialogue initiated by you, using the opinion of citizens, this could have been the moment in particular. But we're gonna beat you to it. What I can say is that, while there is a goal here that needs to be done much, it cannot be achieved without citizens. In this form, Hungary will only be a captured country, and this should be protested. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-27-143	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. The next speaker is Congressman Bence Tuzson, Fidesz.
u2015-05-27-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are also facing major challenges in the field of IT. After all, as you all know, in recent years, more and more professionals have been saying that an IT leap will take place in the next period. This could be compared to the first time aqueducts were built, and the plumbing began to form a bush line, i.e. they tied the different wires from each other, and then formed main lines based on a uniform regulatory principle and branched them. Somewhere in the world of informatics, so the world of informatics is changing, becoming a more organized world. And the perspective changes. While hardware used to be important in IT, solutions behind theory, software or software are becoming more and more important. [[20.40]] The Hungarian state must also participate in this process and the public administration must also participate, otherwise not only at Hungarian level, but also at international level, and we have increasingly started in this direction. There are very good international examples in this regard, such as the repeatedly mentioned Estonian example. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I went to Estonia and looked at this system, how it works, because I was curious. A very well-designed system, somewhat different from the Hungarian system, and I must congratulate the Hungarian IT professionals because they solved a problem that seemed almost impossible. Hungarian legislation, protection regulations, and personality protection regulations are in many respects at a much higher level than in general in European countries, with a high level of personality protection, and, in addition to this defence system, a system had to be established that would be suitable at a theoretical level for linking modern IT requirements with a high level of regulation as regards protection rules. I ask you - and I would also like to offer you a little professional help in this regard, because it is obvious that certain professional knowledge is lacking in some fellow Members when they speak on these issues - to study it and to consult professionals on how such a system works, how the Hungarian system works, how it is different from other systems. With regard to the Hungarian system - and this still applies to the framework, when we talk about how to connect different data, how it is possible or how to solve it, whether it is one code, one data, let's say if you only have your Taj card there, go to the land office or any other registry, and with this code you can access the other data, i.e. check what that data is, let's say, the identification mark is. Accordingly, a very special and very well-designed IT system - and the regulation behind it is also a very well-designed regulation - was created in Hungary and should not be confused with other regulations; this is important because the card system itself is based on it. The point of this regulation is that these data are not linked to each other, but a code is entered into a central repository with a code trained from it, and this code is suitable for connecting the different data, but it does not connect the number itself, i.e., say, not the personal identification mark with the Taj number, but it connects the serial number on which, let's say, the Taj number is recorded in one register with the serial number with which, let's say, the tax identification mark or other identifier is used, and this allows the system to find which data can be linked to the other. In other words, the Hungarian system is designed with a very good idea - I don't know who the mathematician was who invented it - they were able to solve the fact that with a temporary storage only two numbers appear identically. This is only on the screen, but not at all in the underlying systems, so in fact these two data do not meet anywhere. I don't know if that's clear, but it's very well-designed and it's very well thought out. Accordingly, the card is also designed as a small card with a very smart chip, and this smart chip has boxes different from each other - this is what the current regulation applies - these boxes are completely different and can be opened independently from each other, but one can't move data from one box to the other. So the regulation itself and the underlying solution, which, by the way, was developed in a unique way here in Hungary, is an extremely good solution. Good, because it provides much more protection than either the Austrian or the German system cited here, or even the Estonian model. If you look at, say, the Austrian system, it is a completely different type of system, there the card itself is suitable for identification, but it does not contain any data in itself. The Austrian system was therefore also capable of replacing the full card as a medium, in which case a mobile phone identification is possible. The Austrians have also gone in this simplification direction to be able to identify certain data using mobile phones. The Estonian model is again a completely different model. There is one type of ID, but there is a so-called X-Road system, the essence of which is that the various databases - which may be private databases - connect to this public system, convert the different data to this X-Road, and on the other side, the output, so on the outcome side, when the citizen comes to his side, he can see all his data by collecting it from the different databases at that moment, but there is only one identifier. Our system is fundamentally different from other systems in that these identifiers cannot be linked to each other, but we have to make sure that the citizen is able to handle his own data on the same interface as the different identifiers. It's a very difficult challenge, but it could be solved on an IT basis. I would like to draw attention to the question of fingerprinting here, that each of these identifiers has two elements. One is this particular card, which, in our case, appears as a card, as a physical thing, and on the other side, a kind of code appears. This could also be a four-digit PIN code, which is stored on the card, by the way, so it exists on the card, and you have to punch it in, say, when identifying the bank, the nice client has this PIN code. So this is what a bank ID looks like. Such a PIN code, which is a four-digit number, the same type of PIN code is a thousand plus a thousand, a lot less of a fingerprint, so in this case the fingerprint will replace this code itself, so there wouldn't be any danger that this fingerprint, let's say, could be mixed with another fingerprint, because it would have to be in the hands of a person with similar fingerprints and a similar fingerprint. The encounter between these two is almost impossible; technically, it can be done quite well. The case mentioned by Congressman Varju does not concern this and the wording of the text is not what you mean to interpret in this respect, but when you take the fingerprints, the data and identification of the card will be added to the card so that it can be identified later on; this is not the same as if there is a central database. The other part of the legislation, which you mentioned, relates to the fact that if there is any doubt about the identity of the person, but for other reasons, let's say because of the criminal record, his identification is available by law as an identifier, then the authority can check the person who walked in there and says that he would like to produce this card and identify himself with his fingerprints, then he checks that person with the data already in place, but the data taken will otherwise be added to the card and it will not be entered into the database. So this is what this system looks like in this regard. It is very important to note that at the time of the establishment of the Hungarian data protection rules during their period, they were a high level of protection, but above all, there were still paper-based databases. This means two things: on the one hand, data challenges have changed, because we are living in a very different world than we were then. The fact that these numbers were completely separated from each other during that period was a completely different type of protection than today, when these numbers could simply be placed side by side. There is therefore a need for two-way development: on the one hand, the new rules must be designed in such a way that these data cannot be physically linked to each other, i.e. the technical protection of this data must be implemented; on the other hand, the rules must be designed in such a way that the level of protection provided by the system at the time can be raised to a higher level in order to meet today's technical challenges. And I stress that it is appropriate, because I must point out that such a card is good for a lot of things, that it can contain a great deal of data, but when an identification mark appears on such a card, let us say, unlike a photograph on which someone can be recognized, as my fellow Member Varju said, or against a signature, which, let us say, can be determined by the eye whether it is identical to the signature of another person, it provides a whole different level of protection. In the event that data on such a card changes to any extent - and I add that the data on these cards is only one-way, so there is only an input direction, there is no output direction, only encoded output direction - let's say, just because a photon comes from space and passes through the chip precisely by changing a single bit, this is already unidentifiable, so the level of protection is much higher. [[20.50]] I am aware, by the way, that, in some respects, a cultural change must also take place, and in the long term, I myself belong to the X generation, but obviously, they belong to the Z generation, or those who are already part of the alpha generation and the Y, which I have left out, are part of a generation, perhaps some of my fellow Members who belong there, have a different interpretation, and they have a different understanding of these things, and there is a higher confidence index in this type of IT data. It is no coincidence that these solutions are more widespread in European countries or other European countries in the younger generation than, for example, an election solution. In Estonia, parliamentary elections are held so that, of course, on a voluntary basis, IT can be chosen. We are not yet here in Hungary, and I think that this is still the music of the future, whether such a thing can be achieved in Hungary, but it is certain that a certain form of comfort, a kind of development of civil society, is to keep pace with the administrative level, which is, by the way, the challenge of the IT world. And you have to go ahead on this road. Because if we can't keep this up, then the state and the citizen will distance themselves from each other, because the citizen's expectations, whether from business or banking, will become a higher level than the public administration itself is capable of providing. This is, therefore, an extremely important step forward, which we are now making to this end, and I think that we need to continue on this path. You have to move on, because a card in itself is only an identifier, but to do that, you will need to be able to assemble the databases that can be used behind it. Returning to the Estonian example, this system is similar to X-Road, which means that it should be operated as a separate database, but still in data that can be drawn together, this should be an important future goal, taking into account the high level of privacy protection in Hungary. This is what needs to be pursued, because I think that this will serve the development of the Hungarian government and that citizens in Hungary feel that there really is a state of service and that they can have relations with the state that they may not have in Europe. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-05-27-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is a discreet charm when lawyers argue about IT and various technical solutions. My fellow Member Tuzson, I am sure that he is very enthusiastic, and I am sure that he believes what he is saying; and that is the difference. Because I understand, theoretically, the technique is going to make it impossible to connect these data, probably not even from a GP's office, but America, where they are at the forefront of technology, has proven that systems could be connected that were theoretically, they said that they couldn't technically be connected. Then, according to American law and the American Constitution, it wouldn't have been possible to link it up, and they also collected data on people who couldn't have been, and mostly collected data for inventory in America. For example, the Snowden case, and it could be classified as specific cases where we know that technology is not the way we imagine it to be, is not a legal category to describe that it cannot and will not be implemented. Unfortunately, technically, almost anything can be accomplished is legal or not legal, but citizens need to be protected, and I understand that the fingerprints are only needed to prove that that card is mine if there is a question, that may actually be the case, or on the basis of the proposal, but it can be done in other ways. This has been resolved today if there is a question about a personal identity card or someone's identity. And in the future, it looks like the trend is that we're gonna put DNA in it, or we're gonna use an venous scanner, just like we do on football courts. So you can move on this path and say that anyone who disagrees with that is old-fashioned. It's not that. We just want to see the guarantees that the state doesn't use these data in an illegal way. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-147	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-05-27-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, finally, a meaningful, meaningful debate, I can say that I was a witness in Parliament a long time ago. Congressman Tuzson, what you have said, I believe that in theory, at least what concerns the part of your thinking that it is necessary to move forward with age - and indeed to create a state function for citizens that meets the challenges of a service provider and modern age - we absolutely agree with that. Perhaps Mr President, when I said that the problem is that the same direction that goes in the way of electronic engineering is right and should be supported, but the efforts so far have not confirmed its effectiveness and well-functioning. The problem is precisely, I do not know if you have heard, Mr President... - you have heard, so the minutes are always kept on paper, the procedures which are already being dealt with by electronic administration, and in this way you see that their credibility can be assured in the future. We had the same questions about the e-card. What you have just said, Mr President, I have not yet known your knowledge and talent, obviously there were some of us in this room who were able to follow around a part of what you said and another part of it and not, but I am sure of it, which is why we should have a longer discussion in this. And maybe the factions, or the society that I've included the defenders in, and the rest, should be convinced that such an IT system is secure. I will not be able to say in this parliamentary debate that you are right and that you are not. I have no idea that those allegations, and do not understand this as a personal comment, but understand my incompetence on this subject whether they are true or not. I don't know if these things that you've said really guarantee full security or not, so it would be good not to be here first, because that kind of thing, mentioned in other contexts - I mention it now in this context, the kind of confidence index that exists from the opposition side to the government today, doesn't allow us to accept what you claim as credible without more knowledge and information. So we really asked you to explain to us what the technical background was. My fellow Member Tuzson did this. To put it bluntly, with the theory, once again, I agree. To me, the experience so far hasn't confirmed that it's time. If so, I say that this debate is being postponed and try to prove to us and society that it is a good system. In itself, as many people have said, I have my doubts about the fact that if there is a medium on which all sensitive data, personal data may be found, the most sensitive data may not be, so it is obviously on a card that one person's view of the world or attitude on certain sensitive topics is not included, but let's say, a tax authority may, theoretically, have access to traffic police data, which carries these two at the same time, may not be reassuring. You can convince me, and this may be the way of the future, and I cannot see this in this debate right now, and I cannot see it. And the questions about fingerprints, I think, must be part of an old and higher level debate, at least in another round; so, to put it in English, what circle and for what purposes the fingerprint or even the DNA sample can be used for. [[21.00]] Obviously, my fellow Member also remembers when there was a big debate about this. Then, if I remember correctly, Congressman hasn't been a congressman yet. In connection with the entry to the United States of America, even President László Sólyom protested strongly enough that Hungary accepts that America has imposed such a condition on entry, and I understand that he said that he does not want to go there under such circumstances. So how to handle fingerprints is almost separate from this problem, because it is a more theoretical question. And the part of what we are talking about, what data security results, is a practical issue. We, too, who make criticism on the opposition side, if I want to summarize it, basically want the level of protection to remain at least the same, but, if possible, to be better. I understand that new technical solutions require a new legislative environment in order to maintain this level of protection. It's okay. I would just like to point out once again that it would be good if we did not have this much information to argue about such a law, which we do not know, for example, - this was also referred to by my fellow Member Varju, and this would, of course, lead us to another round of thought - how much it costs, for example. I didn't see a statement on that. We don't even know who's doing it. Mr. Secretary of State gave me a company name for who's going to do it, but I don't know this company, for the first time I've heard it. I see in my notes that there is also a government regulation under discussion, according to the impact assessment paper, the overall impact of the measures introduced by the Government Decree on the fiscal balance is HUF 37 million and HUF 815 thousand, with a negative impact of 27 million in the first year. That doesn't mean much to me in itself, but it can be seen that only this has a serious budgetary impact. And I'm guessing it's a lot of billions of dollars, as long as a whole system can get up and running. We have no idea, for example, what budgetary implications this will have, nor did anyone indicate from what source this will be implemented. So what I can tell you is that you're asking a series of questions. I am glad that Congressman Tuzson has brought us a little bit closer to understanding what system we are talking about. I really tried to listen, but I admit I didn't understand most of it, at least not at first. I suggest that you allow society to get to know the opposition, and with the involvement of experts, we can understand exactly what they are really planning, because from this debate to the speech of my fellow Member, as well as from the text of the legislation and the explanatory statement, it was only possible to see that an e-card would be suitable for so many things. However, what I would like to note on the bill - but this is already independent of my fellow Member Tuzson's recent speech, and I did not have time for this in my first speech - is about the amendment of the Law on the Electronic Information Security of Public and Local Government Bodies. The text of this Act in force obliges the Minister with responsibility for the various bodies, such as the Military National Security Service, or the Minister in charge of the Organisation, to carry out the tasks set out in the Act. The amendment entrusts the exercise of specific powers to the body designated in the Government's regulation, for example, to the government-appointed body operating within the civil intelligence organisation in the case of electronic information systems of the National Security Service performing civil intelligence activities. The designated body shall carry out its tasks in accordance with the derogations laid down in the Government Regulation. In our view, this provision is in breach of Article 46 (6) of the Fundamental Law as a whole, which states that the detailed rules for the organisation and operation of police and national security services, the rules for the use of secret service tools and methods and the rules relating to national security activities are laid down by a fundamental law. And that's not it. For example, there is no constitutional barrier to the designation of the organisation within the intelligence system. However, it is contrary to the Fundamental Law if the law adopted by a simple majority or the Government Decree authorising it regulates the activities of national security services. I think that such a problem can be found in this regulation, in this law. I would like to mention one more problem: the National Security Services Act 6. Pursuant to Section (g) of the Military Security Service, the Military Security Service collects information on cyber activities and organizations that threaten the defence interest, provides the information necessary for the information protection design work of the Ministry of Defence led by the Minister of Defence and the Honvéd General Arm. The designation of this function is therefore also essential at the level of the law. However, in the case of the National Security Service, such a clear function is not indicated in the cardinal law, although the proposal suggests that the NSA itself be a government event centre to carry out vulnerability testing. This, in our view, is also against the law. These can therefore not be supported, and if these are to be regulated in this way by the legislator, then, in our view, a fundamental two-thirds law should be laid down. Again, ladies and gentlemen, because of these concerns, we cannot agree with this law. We may be able to support certain parts of it, but in order for it to happen, we would need significantly more information than we could have been given as Members of Parliament in this debate, and we could read from this bill. The fact that Parliamentary Members have access to this information is, I think, primarily the responsibility of the national and it is his duty to make us aware of it. We won't be able to say yes to maybe or uncertain. Once again, if you allow us, even by applying certain regulatory provisions, to have time and opportunity to get to know them, we will appreciate it and, where appropriate, support certain parts of the bill. But I'll tell you again, there are going to be some things that, for reasons of principle, such as those relating to fingerprints, are not. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-27-149	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. I'll give the floor to Congressman Tuzson Bence for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-05-27-150	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just want to respond to what has been said in a few sentences. On the one hand, the question of hardware has been raised here, but, as I have already stressed, hardware is not important in this regard, because the underlying knowledge is not usually reflected in the tools that the user uses at the end, as the world has changed in this respect. You were referring to trust, and that is a very important question. I think it is about trust in information technology and the new information world in this regard. The question is whether a society achieves a level of trust index that reaches reliability compared to paper-based information. I feel that there may be a debate here between us whether a person trusts a card, a data more than a paper, which is interesting in a way that a paper is easy to copy and easy to forge, while a card is much harder. So the confidence index in this regard is questionable. But indeed, traditionally, the confidence index is often higher in paper-based information. We still have to work together to change that, because we all have the knowledge that trust in data stored in an otherwise encrypted way should be stronger, but this is not necessarily the case. [[21.10]] The other question is the question of personal data, which is on the card. This card has minimal data, in particular the numbers, with the exception of some data, that are also included in the ID card, with which you can access databases. So, basically, it's almost identical to the cards you're using in every respect, only the level of security is higher than if you lose your wallet, because almost all the data from the lost wallet is available, but in this respect you can't get all the data. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-27-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I will ask the State Secretary, the rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. It says yes. I give the floor to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-05-27-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate of this bill is a very good example of how difficult it is to bring forward a bill or to reach agreement and consensus in a bill which, on the one hand, requires a technical background the implementation of which requires the development of a technical background whose full cross-section is clearly not visible, and a Member or a politician does not need to grasp its technical background. On the other hand, the statement or the wording that Mr Staudt has made is that he sees that the members of the government believe in it, and they do not believe in it, and it is obviously very difficult, with this type of division or force, to make a proposal or to live with a law that is acceptable to everyone. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We're open!]] I think it is a very important issue, above which more and more people have overlooked that the new identity card itself contains no information that could be linked through the card. So the card is a tool to access databases later, otherwise with the personal assistance of the card holder, so it cannot be connected automatically. Of course, there is probably no security of 100%, this is also true for today's storage tools, and it is likely to be true later on. So those lists and examples are obviously regrettable, and obviously the aim is to avoid any abuse or misuse of data or citizens' personal records in the coming period. But, in this context, it is counterproductive to point out that, where appropriate in any country in the world - and obviously in many countries - this type of abuse could not be an argument against the introduction of an e-card in Hungary, because otherwise, any database on an IT network can be hacked, accessed, investment in money or energy, which is likely to happen. But the same can happen by stealing or obtaining paper-based records. So I think the overall risk of this is small. We are trying to take every step and coordination that can lead to both sides of Parliament supporting and adopting this law to such an extent that it can really be introduced, because - and here in the daily actual policy, I think it is worth considering - this is a continuous introduction, at least ten years, but perhaps more, by the time the full spread of the e-card runs through at all, because the replacement of identity cards would not happen at the same time, not at the same time, but at the same time, but at the same time as the current maturity. It is therefore a lengthy, lengthy process, it is advisable to start as soon as possible and to leave open the electronic options that could further increase the scope of use in the course of subsequent enlargement. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-27-153	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László György Lukács, Jobbikós, spoke after the agenda today with the title of a permanent unfilled practice. You have the floor for five minutes.
u2015-05-27-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why I wanted to speak on this subject is because, perhaps, on the next day of the debate, the basic supply will be mentioned in particular when the budget is being negotiated. Therefore, it is worth considering the problems of basic care, and one of the biggest cancers of this is the number of unfulfilled practices. I said the actuality, but what is worth knowing is that the totality of the practice is, so to speak, dental, general medical practices, but also protective care, as these are the elements of the basic care. The problem of basic care and practices is shown by a very simple indicator, the National Institute of Basic Supply records those unfilled and permanently unfilled practices, the number of which suggests what problem we are facing. It is very important to clarify the terminology of what persistent unfilled practice means. The definition of a permanently vacant practice is that for which the contract with the municipality has been terminated for at least 6 months. Obviously, this means that that practice has been unfilled for six months, so it will be about unfilled practices beyond 6 months. The current statement is also contained in the National Institute for Basic Supply, and it can be concluded that with the first month of 2015, with the scope of the year's round, there are 203 GP practices that are unfilled. The interesting thing about this is that the Barcsi-born and Barcsi inhabitants sitting next to me may be interesting for Balázs Ander, that since May 1, 2005, one of the districts of Barcsi is the record player, and this district has been vacant for 10 years. By the way, we are meeting with a similar vacant district not only in South Somogy, but also in my constituency, Tiszabő and Kenderes, where no doctor has been seen in a mixed area for 10 years. Most of the unfilled practice is in Borsod County, but unfortunately, Békés County is also looking good, if you can say that it suits you, and Heves County is able to fit on this imaginary podium in the number of unfilled practices. Compared to this, dentists would think they look better, but unfortunately, dentists also face a serious number of unfilled practices, and more than general practitioners, there are 221 permanently unfilled practices. Overall, there are 423 places in the country where there is no home-patient, mixed or adult gynaecologist or dentist care. The number of permanently unfilled GP practices in children's-house doctors shows a particularly bad number and a bad ratio, and it paints a very bad vision for us, as there are 41 child-hospital practices that are unfilled. I can also set an example from my own constituency: Tiszafüred, Gun, Karcag, Tiszaörs, Kenderes, all of these are the settlements of the constituency, with an unfilled pediatric practice. And why aren't these GP clinics attractive, this GP, let's say, careers? The first is a financing reason. As we all know, unfortunately, in the resources that are missing from health care, GPs were not abundant or abundant, just as, by the way, there was a lack of resources everywhere else in health care. But there is also a very serious problem with ageing, and it is very interesting to see statistics that show that one third of the general practitioners are already beyond retirement age, and that in this context, replacements are facing serious challenges. In general pediatric practice, all of this is even enhanced by the fact that they are a little less funded than GP practices, they have much narrower opportunities. At the moment, it is safe to say that it is the child's desire for healing that is the only attractive factor for home-made pediatricians, since both their working conditions and their wages are horrific. And as far as their replacement is concerned, there aren't enough pediatricians in the home because 40 pediatricians do a year, which is less than a quarter of what is needed, so basically, the supply line is cut off. [[21.20]] Resident scholarships keep these doctors here for a long time, but after the exam, their salary will drop substantially. What did the state do? OEP launched a tender, where 500 million HUF was available from the tender funds, a 10 billion euros basic supply expansion, and stole - you can say in gown - Jobbik's initiative to grant business tax exemptions to general practitioners and practitioners. Jobbik, by the way, continues to suggest this, and this is one of the ways forward, beyond the fact that the resources need to be increased, because the nearest GPs are getting further away from people, there are more and more unfilled practices, and not only is frustration growing in doctors and patients, but also, in practice, the extinction of villages and rural cities is leading to the disappearance of a practice. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-155	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Mihály Witzmann, on behalf of Fidesz, also spoke after the agenda with the title 'Health picture'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-156	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We people often tend to talk more about shortcomings, problems or annoying self-experience in terms of opinions on health. We could also believe that this is only in Hungary, but an Internet survey shows that from the US to the European countries with an advanced economy, to the less developed states, citizens have a similar sceptical view of state-funded health care. Obviously, this can't be a coincidence. A rather rigorous social assessment may also be due to the fact that we all want better and higher quality services, especially when it comes to our own health. Well, that's understandable, because our greatest treasure is indeed health. This is precisely why I would like to provide concrete examples of the clear progress made in the field of health in Hungary in recent years, despite the problems. However, to detect improving trends, we must go back in time to the period before 2o10, even because, as in the economy, education, families, businesses and local governments, the civil government did not inherit enviable conditions in health in 2010. The period of socialist governments was characterised by harsh austerity, series of institution closures, unsuccessful hospital privatisations, mass redundancies, accelerated medical migration and the total debt of the sector. In contrast, significant progress has been made in the maintenance and operation of the institutions in recent years, both in the development of infrastructure developments and in the development of health wages. If we look only at the health developments of Somogy County and the Somogy 4th Constituencies, then it is clear that there have been a total of tens of billions of HUF worth of improvements and will soon be completed in the region. As a Member of Siófok, I would like to take this opportunity to inform the Honourable Parliament and, at the same time, the voters about the joyful developments that have taken place in my constituency or on the threshold of implementation. I should start immediately with the investment of more than three billion HUF, the physical execution of which started in 2o12, and the Siófok Hospital could undergo a long-awaited, significant renewal. During the project, a one-gate patient reception system will be implemented, the investigation and care will be simplified, faster, and an emergency ward of 1154 square meters will be developed, central operating room and sterilizer. There is a complex supply array capable of operating more efficiently, and a helicopter landing track is also established. The procurement of equipment will increase the hospital's instrument park with new imaging diagnostic equipment and surgical tools. In addition to the three billion-dollar project, I am pleased to mention the renewal of the children's clinic, with which not only one health development was created, but also the investment in the interests of the future generation, children. Last year was the year when the hospital's physiotherapy department was modernised, thanks to which the department can treat up to 100 patients a day. I am pleased to say that with the New Széchenyi Plan's environment and energy operational programme, the hospital could purchase and install 806 solar panels with a HUF 150 million grant. The investment is expected to cost the institution more than HUF 7.1 million/year, while the energy generated will provide 17 percent of the hospital's electricity needs. As a result of the project, the hospital's CO2 emissions are reduced by about 164 tonnes. In addition to hospital investments, it should be pointed out that in Somogy, several billion forints have been used in the construction and modernisation of outpatient care centres in recent years. Thus, in my constituency there was an opportunity to develop the outpatient care centre of Tabi for a total value of HUF 1 billion. A great deal of the opinion - we have just heard it - is that during the restructuring of health care, the first step, the basic care, or the level of general health care, must be strengthened, as this is the way the patient enters the healthcare system. In the light of the proposals announced last month, I can also say that we have also made progress on the development of basic supply. In my constituency 12 settlements, including Siófok, Tab, Balatonföldvár, Zamárdi and Igal, Ádánd, Andocs, Balatonszárszó, Bate, Magyaratád, Mernye and Taszár, received more than 443 million HUF in total. However, if we are talking about health care, we cannot ignore the situation of emergency services. The rescue station modernization program will enable the construction of 22 new stations and the renovation of 60 buildings at national level. In Somogy, three new rescue stations are under construction, affecting my constituency in the city of Igal. The renovation of the rescue station in Siófok is also a significant step forward. Compared to previous years, it is also positive that, while no new ambulances were purchased between 2008 and 2010, 120 new modern vehicles were purchased in 2010, and a further 2oo ambulances are currently being purchased. Ladies and gentlemen, We are well aware that a well-functioning, efficient health care system requires a reassuring settlement of the wages of health workers, in addition to investment in infrastructure. To this end, measures have already been taken - wage increases, medical scholarships and so on - and it is clear that further increases in the wages of health workers are also included in the 2016 budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I hope that recent positive trends can continue in the future, as the government intends, since further development and high-quality operation of health care are of common interest to all of us. I apologize for the delay.
u2015-05-27-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President Novak, on behalf of Jobbik, also asked to speak after the agenda:, which was not included in the budget's time-frame debate today. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to push Jobbik's time frame for the budget by five minutes, because it is a little painful that the most important law of the year is always being pushed into a time frame, and so in the hours of the night, to whom it is important, I think that you should be able to say what your conscience dictates to you, for example, to me, that I should speak about the greatest problem of Hungarians, because there has been little talk about it today. I would like to talk about the most serious problem of Hungarians, the loss of population and the budgetary implications of this, because although there is much thinking to be done, not all the money matters; it is enough to think only of the only Hungarian territory in the Carpathian Basin, where Hungarians do not run out, even though we are talking about the poorest Hungarian region in the Carpathian Basin. However, it is our responsibility, as Members of Parliament, to urge children to bear children with financial means, all the more so, because according to the representative survey of the Institute of Directions in January this year, the question whether you believe that the current family policy of the government is sufficient to deal with the Hungarian population crisis. 78 percent of respondents replied that they did not, and only 15 percent said that they did. Insufficient, i.e. insufficient, 78 percent of Hungarian society thinks so, which means that the government's family policy has failed. We can also see this from demographic indicators, and let us not be pleased that, let us say, the fertility rate has increased from 1.3 to 1.4. The fact that the number of children per single Hungarian woman is below the minimum necessary from 2.1 is now 1.4, let us not be happy about this. In particular, not in the light of the fact that this applies only to Hungarian citizens, and if we are talking about 13 national minorities, which are also considered by law as national minorities, then we can see that they significantly distort the indicators of Hungarians, and in light of this, especially if we do not eliminate the proliferation of Roma, then the fertility rate is indeed below the same. We should therefore finally face this problem, but we do not see that this budget has faced this. What we see, for example, is that the number of children who eat free meals will indeed increase significantly next year - from 92 thousand to 330 thousand - in the context of a meal, but there is no increase in budget support. So we do not know what quality food this will be, as Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said today, this may be a cheap fried soup without any material content, because while the number of children eating free of charge increases from 92 thousand to 330 thousand, the amount spent on meals will not increase from 58 billion to 72 billion forints or so much, so we can see that there is no necessary budget support. [[21.30]] Indeed, in other areas we can see delays, for example, the promotion of social and child protection institutions is also decreasing. In this area, real estate costs are cut by an additional HUF 2 billion, as we can see cuts in several areas. For example, while the personal benefits of the Ministry of Human Resources are significantly increased by more than HUF 3 billion. So the 6 billion forints so far are over 9 billion forints. I think that they show that they still do not realize what the biggest problem of Hungarians is, which the majority of society has already recognised, because they have had such a poll by the Institute of Directions, and 78 percent have already seen it. However, staying in the social sphere, for example, because crèches are among other things: they are extremely underpaid, and it looks like they will continue to pay next year. And in the meantime, it is extremely behind both the health and pedagogical pay table, of course, and in some categories, the difference between wages may be up to 50 per cent. This is why we need to change this, since we already have operational problems in child protection as a whole, almost 20-30 percent of family care jobs are constantly unfilled, which is already at the expense of the effectiveness of work. That is why we would like to have greater support for this area, not only on paper, for example, to increase the number of nursery seats, but also in the area of square meters and in terms of the number and value of workers there. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-159	Thank you, Congressman President Novak. Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbikós, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "Destruction - South Somogyi Village Walking II." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-27-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For next year's budget, Jobbik's representatives will present a number of amendments that would help the life of the Hungarian countryside, which has been destroyed by carpet bombing for decades, from day to day, forced into a line of servants or pariahs. In my speech after today's agenda, I would like to convey to my fellow Members a small bouquet of experiences, feelings, impressions and public messages collected on an average day of my villages in South Somogy, and I hope, with naive illusion, that even those sitting in the pro-government benches may hear the complaints of the less than a hundred enthusiastic, little Szentborbás, which, even at a distance of 30 kilometers from Barcs, is a real settlement behind God; who does not have a car, the lost man, because the Volán's schedule does not exactly spoil the inhabitants. Can you imagine the odds of a young man running from here? If not behind it are ten and a hundred million luxury apartments, swimming pool luxury villas, a well-known family alliance from the pro-government side. And unlike the MSZP Simon Gábor, no one gives him 250 million forints of wealth management. Can you imagine the situation of the school of Lakocsa's neighbouring villages with almost 600 inhabitants in that region and the teachers working there? I've had a chance to make sure that the educators of the institution are trying their best efforts when dealing with the majority of young gypsies with a low sociocultural background in their educational and educational work. This is not only a talk about the Pharisee-style tolerance, but it is in fact an infinitely exclusion of the Bel-Pest Soclib intellectuals, which is a fatty livelihood, and its often gigantic experiment. Here, even if a child whose father is in prison or a member of a woman's family is standing next to Route 6, the teachers continue to work as their profession, it may be with an unsatisfying obscenity to the one who gives them the only help and the possibility of a real eruption, knowledge. Can you imagine how the villagers, in their dying little pub of only 200 people, think over a spritzer about the wear of the tight gucci and vuitton classes? Believe me, it would be nice to hear those voices sometimes. And I'm sending you forward, S. Unlike Captain, I have a mistake many cannot tolerate: I like to stay sober, so I did not come to this unit to drink, but to talk. The gypsy woman who worked as an employee at the pub was very honest about the problems. Interestingly, his insights are close to the rightful ideas of racist racist without any basis. He raised three children in honor and also condemns the criminal way of life, not for the children, but the mentality of the children. But let's move on to the recalled route and look at the next village. Can you imagine what it was like in 1979, when it was inaugurated to Barcs, to have a 300 enthusiastic Dravaszenes attached to Barcs, an old man with a hard-working job bent back and humiliatingly low pension? We have always known that police statistics are one thing, and another is the subjective sense of security of the population, so it is better to believe not in your own experience, but in official communications, so the world is turning pink. Local pensioners complained that it was no longer worth growing the garden, because while they sow, other harvests did. One of them had even stolen the back of the bench in front of his house, even though, as he said, he would have liked to have given the thief enough wood to cook. In order not to be accused of excessive one-sidedness, I must admit, during my next stop, half the Péterhida was pleased to see the renovation work of the classicist water mill built in 1810 progressing further. However, a local family farmer under 50 hectares once again cooled down my ready-to-break optimism and returned me to the rough terrain of Hungarian reality. Because can you imagine, despite the meaningless bureaucratic regulations, the words of the small farmer-friendly government propaganda, a difficult tender system, and the bloody sweat of the countryside, as well as the maiming of billions of crop buyers and stock market speculators, the scoundrel caste of vampire polyps, how will he make sure that his children don't imagine their future in Péterhida? By the way, every time I go to the village, I find it strange that most people thank me for listening to them at all, and I am curious about their opinion. Therefore, they really do not owe me any thanks, because as a better Member, this is one of my tasks. The one who owes thanks is me. If you will perhaps see and hear this speech, I would also like to thank them for taking the time to discuss it. I call on my fellow members of the Government to support the better proposals for amending the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-27-161	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:38 p.m.]]
