u2015-11-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, 190 years ago, on 3 November 1825 in Bratislava, MEPs discussed the issue of the founding of the Hungarian Society of Sciences. During this debate, Count István Széchenyi made his historic offer to sacrifice the income of his livestock for a year for the foundation of a Hungarian-language scientific institute. As a result, Annex XI of 1825-27 is amended as follows: The law stated that the Science Society, or the later Hungarian Academy, should be set up. Several people joined Széchenyi's initiative, so the year 1827 was XI. The law article has already announced the establishment of the academy with a basic capital of HUF 250,000. The Science Society was founded in 1830. In 2003, the Parliament passed a law declaring November 3rd, the day of the former Bratislava debate and of the offer to be a celebration of Hungarian science, thus expressing that knowledge, education and research and development play a decisive role in the development of our country, and that it is the Parliament's duty to promote scientific activity and the recognition of scientists in all possible ways. These principles have been confirmed by our Fundamental Law. Hungary guarantees the freedom of scientific research and artistic creation, as well as the freedom to learn and teach. The State shall endeavour to apply new technical solutions and the results of science. Ladies and gentlemen, The names of many renowned Hungarian scientists have been added to the pages of the history of science. We can look proudly at the list of Hungarian Nobel Prize winners, and our scientists and students today receive numerous international scientific awards. Learning about the world around us, processing experiences and passing on accumulated knowledge will continue to be an important social task. Scientific research and its developments are a real economic driving force, but it is also important to bring the results achieved here closer to ordinary people. This is the purpose of the festival of Hungarian science and the series of events around it. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech. What is the real policy of the Orbán government? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-03-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in the 2014 campaign about Fidesz's ideas that we will continue. Many said at the time that the government did not have any programme, nor did it know what to do with the Hungarian economy that had come to a dead end. However, both the previous and today's Orbán governments had an economic policy agenda, and there is no difference between them. It was exactly as harmful for Hungary before 2014 as it was today. Many people in this country suffer just because the Orbán government stubbornly insists on economic policy, the principles of which it inherited from its predecessors. The government insists on dogmas that are becoming increasingly obvious every day, and the price of which will be higher every day. The real economic policy of the Orbán government is a vulnerable, inexpensive labour force, keeping local businesses inanimate, wasting resources, devaluing knowledge that can create real value, in short: a country of assembly. This can be seen on generous grants to multinationals, on the destruction and bleeding of education, and on the support of entrepreneurs belonging to the moonyard instead of Hungarian small entrepreneurs. The LMP has repeatedly drawn the government's attention to the misguided economic policy in which car manufacturing is the driving force of industry, when the government is not primarily building on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, when the majority of the budget support is given to multinational companies when they sink it into a country of assembly. The figures refer to the distorted economic structure, the dominance of multinational companies and car manufacturers, the vulnerable situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The production of cars accounts for 22 percent of industrial production. The performance of our automotive industry is many times higher than that of pharmaceutical manufacturing, but all other industries, including the food industry, are dwarfing. The food industry is half the share of the automotive industry, even though we have excellent agricultural conditions and we always need food. On the other hand, car manufacturing is a highly economically sensitive sector, increasing the country's vulnerability in both political and economic terms. The government believes that this will ensure maximum concentration of power and the levy on the resources necessary for their survival. That it's not good for the country? It's gonna break up and invade? It doesn't matter. This comes with a constant change in the economic environment, what the government thinks is a virtue; it believes in the element of surprise. It's just that businesses, mostly small domestic businesses, don't like it, because it can destroy years of work in a single moment. Anyone who wants something today will emigrate. This is how the country loses its vitality, its most active citizens. However, it would not be so difficult to find a useful way for the country: education and education. There is no country on earth that has broken out of its peripheral position, be it Finland or Singapore, without investing everything in education. This could then be the basis for higher value added jobs. And wages must already be increased by reducing taxes on labour, both in order to guarantee a decent living for everyone and in order to slow emigration. Instead of high-priced and debt-trapped nuclear energy, renewables should be developed and invested in energy efficiency, and domestic resources should be used to represent the interests of Hungarian workers and entrepreneurs instead of serving multinationals or Russian economic expansion. Instead of a assembly country, instead of seducing car manufacturers, we should support sectors with high added value. This requires, once again, a strong support for education and innovation rather than the current downsizing and obstruction. We need real competition, where talent and diligence are the key to success, not political relations. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-03-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is not surprising that opposition parties do not recognise the economic performance of Hungary and the government. Of these, the LMP is now increasingly saying that it does not agree with the economic policies and performance of the government and the country. It's true that you can't give me an alternative. It is no wonder, as it would be difficult, because Hungary's performance against the LMP is recognised by the European Union, the Commission of the European Union, because if it did not recognise it, it would certainly not have been allowed to leave Hungary out of the excessive deficit procedure in 2013 and otherwise would not have changed Hungary's economic growth prospects and macro numbers. Hungary's performance is acknowledged by the IMF, the IMF, which we thanked for its services in 2010, and we said that we do not want to live in the bondage and dependence of the IMF, and we do not want it to finance the country, because in return it would have expected social policy measures from Hungary, the Hungarian government, which were inconvenient, to be essentially equivalent to the policy of austerity. [[9.10]] Compared to the LMP, credit rating agencies recognise Hungary's performance because they offer positive prospects and hopefully in the near future, there will also be a qualification. And Hungary's performance is recognised by an international organisation, OECD, as it also improves Hungary's economic prospects and performance in the same way as the European Union. Therefore, it took a great deal of work to recognise the country's performance by these international organisations and credit rating agencies. If we look back, the first important step was to thank the IMF, which has already been mentioned, for its lending service, and, in essence, the Hungarian government has taken the fate of Hungary into its own hands from an economic policy point of view. Then came economic recovery measures, such as job protection programmes, which helped hundreds of thousands of people to work. The biggest benefit was to the small businesses mentioned by you, as the government also knows that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises give direct jobs to two thirds of the employees. Next was the support for job-enhancing businesses who are able to expand their markets, to increase their production, to create jobs. In order to do this, the support system for EU funds had to be adapted and directed towards entrepreneurs. However, in recent years, construction players have also been given a significant opportunity to increase investment and in other respects, as investment performance has increased to nearly 20 per cent annually using more efficient EU funds. But Hungary's financial system and lending had to be transformed, and the Hungarian National Bank helped with its national loan programme, which was able to pump hundreds of billions of forints into the Hungarian economy. It is very important that the government, contrary to your claim, knows that the importance of education in vocational training, in the performance of the Hungarian economy, is inevitable, and it is extremely important that dual training takes its place in Hungarian society and thus enhances the performance of the economy in order to start training at higher education level and at vocational training level that the economy will need. It is very important that EU funds 2014-2020 will be declared and directed towards the economy, with 60 percent of which will basically serve the economy: job creation, job expansion. I'd love to, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] once the LMP recognizes this country's and the government's performance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-03-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group asked for the title of the International Day of Social Work. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-5	Thank you very much. Good morning, fellow Members. As Mr President pointed out in the title, today is the international day of social work, although it is usually held by Hungarian civil society organisations on 11 November, 12 November, so it will be this year again, as next week in the glove factory, with the coordination of the Social Professional Association, they will remember this day with a large conference. On the day of social work, I think that the work of workers in the social field, the work of nearly 80,000 people who, unfortunately, have left the country or left the field, is unprecedented. In recent weeks - as the World Day against Poverty was nearly two weeks ago - there have been various analyses of civil society organisations and research workshops. All I need to do is refer to the OECD's large-scale survey, the research of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and Tarki, Habitat Hungary's study on housing poverty published last week, and an analysis of Malta's Love Service. There is a sad picture of Hungary, because if you look at the academic analysis, the researchers of the Academy clearly state that 38 percent of society in Hungary is in deprivation - a sociological concept, we can safely turn it into poverty, although this is a much more detailed definition - and 21 percent of society is living in severe deprivation. This means that, on the basis of the indicator system on which this indicator is measured, it is lacking in at least three. Seventy-five percent of society cannot finance an unexpected expense, two-thirds of society, 67 percent, could not afford to go on vacation for a week, and one in four households, 25 percent of households, could not heat their homes properly. Dear Friends! That's a sad picture. It is a sad picture, because if we are just looking at the beginning of the heating season, it is clear from this analysis that it is 498 thousand households that cannot properly heat their homes, and for me the most shocking data was not, but it was when it was clear that 250,000 households had the XXI. In the middle of the century, there is no washing machine, and 25 percent of society is unable to eat properly. I don't want to put it on the list, but I'd like to discuss the investigation of Habitat. Dear Friends! In this study, it was found that 1.5 million people live in housing poverty in Hungary, there are 30,000 homeless people, 555 thousand households are soaked in roofs, water, moldy, musty apartments, and 800,000 households live in energy poverty. 31 percent of large family members and 36 percent of single - parent households have classified these households as energy-poor. It is amazing that the municipalities only issue half of the apartments in their possession as a social tenant, which is one-and-a-half percent of the total housing stock. Hungary is in the last place in the European Union in this indicator, and in the last year, 126,500 apartments were sold by municipal authorities in connection with residential privatisation. Dear fellow Members, I have to go to the welfare committee meeting yesterday. Yesterday, the Committee on Welfare discussed the national minimum for the eradication of child hunger, which was preceded by a declaration signed by, among other things, Fidesz MEPs, my fellow Member, Katalin Csöbör. Yesterday, on the Welfare Committee, that was a day of shame! The majority of the Fidesz voted against this initiative, this motion, and the President, Mrs Selmeczi Gabriella, told the starving children to eat less money. When the nation's boiler room is being built in Felicsu, it is not necessary to send a message about this national minimum. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the other agenda, to say that there is no need to increase the minimum pension, I think that this is the worst thing that can happen in the Hungarian Parliament. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, wishes to respond to the speech before the agenda on behalf of the Government. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.20]]
u2015-11-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, A week ago, Mr Korózs spoke in a similar manner to Mr Korózs, and he also said figures on the number of tens or hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary who actually suffer from deprivation and deprivation in some social indicators. At the same time, he forgot to say two things: how much they have decreased overall since Fidesz-KDNP's governance, how much they were during the socialist period, and if we look at the individual figures individually, how positive they have been in the past. When he talked about the number of people at risk of poverty in relation to the depriviation index, he forgot to say the only thing that has decreased by 241 thousand in recent years. 241 thousand fewer people are now at risk of poverty or social exclusion than they were during socialist governance. These numbers may sound frightening to many, but three to four or five years ago they were even more frightening as a result of the socialist practice at that time. You said that a quarter of people are not provided with a full, healthy meal. This is measured by who can and cannot be allowed to eat meat food every two days. That's a problem at 27.2 percent. But a few years ago, that was 33 percent. This may be a problem for a quarter of citizens now, but when the socialists were in government, a third of them had this problem, since then the number of people with this risk of poverty has decreased by 580,000. But in the same way, a week a year's vacation is now 700,000 more people can afford than a few years ago. This is obviously due to the policy of tax cuts, rising actions, expanding employment or the Elizabeth Programme, which offers vacation opportunities for people who would otherwise not be able to afford it, because they would not be covered. The proper heating of the apartment: I admire the fact that, as a Member of the opposition, this is what the Fidesz-KDNP has done a lot, because if there is a question for which Fidesz-KDNP has done a lot, that is exactly what it is. The policy of cuts in overhead is successful, since, on the one hand, the debts and debts fell from over 140 billion to 70 billion, and now 250 thousand fewer people are saying that this is a problem for them than it was a few years ago. I think it's a real success for all governments. I don't know who's proud of the fact that, in the course of their own administration, the cost of the rent didn't increase, but it didn't go down, and let alone the overhead debts didn't go up, but they were halved. I think that any socialist government would have been proud of this, but what you really can say is that in eight years, we have raised the rent fifteen times in Hungary. But when you look at those who, for financial reasons, don't have a car, you see that they also decreased by 70,000 people. Our indicators have improved here, too. And that is why the circle of those who can save money has expanded. The number of savings has increased by 8 percent, not by outstanding amounts, not by debt, but by savings. As regards the national minimum programme and the feeding of children: it was not your government, but the Fidesz-KDNP government, which identified with the goals set by the national minimum so that it gave them full free access to the Budapest Sports Arena, so that they could hold a half-day, 12-hour concert there, and thus draw everyone's attention - not only to its government, but also to civil society organisations, ecclesiastical actors and everyone else - to pay attention to this question, because it is an important and important issue. This government provided the organisers with the opportunity of this day free of charge, precisely for the purpose of raising awareness. And I believe that for the objectives that have been set, which go beyond a parliamentary resolution, and should appear in the budget law: we have not provided a national minimum, but a budgetary ceiling. Since the change of regime, you have not been able to show any Hungarian government that has spent more on eating children than Fidesz-KDNP in any kind of screening - budget screening, a projection of children's numbers or a projection of GDP. You can remember that you spent 29 billion forints on this, this year the government spends 58 billion in the central budget, and next year this amount will rise to over 70 billion. I think that neither in this and in the social summer meal can you see a period like this year, when, if I remember correctly, 144,000 children have reached their summer social meals, but the amount of 3 billion is certainly a record, because there has never been such a fiscal responsibility of any government in Hungary as Fidesz-KDNP in connection with the feeding of children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP Mátyás Firtl, KDNP:, Civic, Christian, strong Hungary, applied for a speech entitled Europe, which preserves its identity. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-9	Mr President, Dear House, Last week we remembered October 23, 1956, when the Hungarians set an example for Europe, for the whole world, how to fight for a meaningful life worthy of man, against those who destroyed existence, who crippled the soul, who did not respect God and human life. Then he found the nation's self-esteem and strength to this day. Hungary has set a moral and political example for the whole world. And this week, on the day of national mourning, we remember how our freedom struggle was crushed, followed by cruel retaliation, from which hundreds of thousands of people had to flee. Yes, we Hungarians know what it really means to be a refugee, because we came to the Austrian camps as refugees. Here, allow me to present the example of our family to compare the situation at that time with the one we have now. My brother-in-law was actively involved in the removal of the red star from the iron foundry in Sopron, and had no choice but to flee with his family, along with my sister, my 3-year-old nephew, my 4-month-old niece, and myself, when I was seven years old, with my mother. So I know what it means when a family is on the run, and at the camp in Traiskirchen, they expect to be taken in by a country. Hungarian refugees were able to integrate from the same cultural environment by becoming respected citizens in their second home. All this doesn't apply to the crowd falling on us in this invasion. People who come illegally often have fundamental problems with integration, see Stockholm or Berlin. Dear House, The government is doing everything it can to protect the Hungarian families, our country, everything we have built, we have created with work. According to the law, refugees find refuge, but we have a legitimate expectation that our laws will be respected, all the regulations governing their stay here. We expect that the common results of our work so far - this is what the order, respect for the host country - will not be ruined, as all Hungarian refugees did in 1956. Hungary complies with the Geneva Convention, Dublin III and the Schengen Convention. Our borders are open, as refugees at border crossing points, anyone can enter the country and we provide protection for him. But we do not wish to receive any economic immigrants. Our joint responsibility for the Hungarian people is to give Parliament a mandate that does not support the EU decision on the resettlement quota. In order to protect European values Hungary is the first, Hungarian families are the first, all Hungarian settlements are the first, and everything else comes after. Only strong nation states can make Europe strong enough to preserve its identity so that Europe does not lose everything we have achieved in creating the common good. Today, Europe is drifting towards an anarchic state. We are convinced that our only chance for Hungary and Europe is a civic, Christian, strong Hungary and a Europe that preserves its identity. Based on the values of the millennial Jewish-Christian culture, our European values, we believe that the nation state ensures the best protection of the fundamental values of democracy, the common good. Europe must therefore join forces, as the Visegrád 4 have proved, that only by working together can we stop the migrant crisis and restore the protection of European borders. Our common goal - what the European Union must be involved in - can be for migrants to do their best for their own country. Dear House, We owe thanks to the Hungarian police, to the defence, to the staff of the Immigration Office for their superhuman achievement, and to all the civilians who helped us. Strengthen them and all Hungarians by the government's stability and determination in handling the migrant invasion. An example of a moral policy that triggers recognition is the responsibility given by the people to protect our borders, our families, our values, our achievements and also Europe. It is our shared responsibility that a strong, Christian Europe emerges from the migrant crisis, based on the ideas of the Schumani, because Europe will be either a Christian or not. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.30]]
u2015-11-03-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that if we organised a competition in the European Union to say a politician who says the same thing about immigration today as he said a month ago, six months ago or a year ago, then perhaps Viktor Orbán would be the only one who would say the same thing. We know very few European politicians who have not changed their views on this issue. We understand many kinds of changes here in the Hungarian Parliament, but even more so in European politics. After all, many things can be called in many ways, but now the protection of external borders is considered very important by everyone, and in its instrument, border closure, fence construction is also slowly agreed. Although we now know the difference between the German language and the Austrian language - I quote, of course - one is called a fence, and the other is called a gate-side construction. So, if we look at European politicians, the change in European politics, then we can see that Hungary is the only country that has recognised the dangers of modern-day migration from the very first moment. He recognised how to act on this, how to protect the external borders of the European Union, to protect internal free movement, and how to help people who have been in a really difficult situation, in their own country or in their homeland, so that they can be helped to return peacefully to their own country, their own homeland. I mean, we trust that most of you want to do that. In addition to this opinion, only Hungary has consistently held out, and everyone else can now measure their own opinion. It is particularly sad when Hungarian politicians, who regard the full opening of the border, the full invitation and the unbound resettlement of immigrants as their main objective, have spoken in the last few days against Hungarians across the border, withdrawing from them part of their rights as citizens, such as the right to vote of Hungarians beyond the border. It is very talkative that, in fact, those who would have been the most acceptable in relation to immigrants, they would be the strictest in relation to Hungarians across the border. It also shows that there is national politics, and there is another part of politics, which does not consider the interests of the Hungarian nation first. Mr. Congressman also pointed out that, 59 years ago, when many Hungarians, two hundred thousand Hungarians fled from Soviet troops who occupied the country after the revolution of 56, everyone took their passports, their workbooks and their diplomas with them, and, among the first, presented them to the authorities who accepted them. Compared to this, in modern-day migration, we find that everyone in front of the Hungarian border will drop their passports and dictate a different identity to a Hungarian authority or an Austrian authority, a Hungarian authority or a Swedish authority, and will make it completely untraceable where they are and where they are. Whether we are talking about quotas or we are talking about expulsions mentioned by European politicians under stricter rules, in the event that someone does not register, we do not know exactly how the German authorities or other authorities will act against him, either his name or his fingerprints or his date of birth? How will they be able to expel him without a title from the European Union, deport him from the European Union, even if they don't know his name, even if they haven't taken his fingerprint sample, they can't identify him? How much of a problem will this be for Western European countries that are trying to deport illegal immigrants, but will they realize that they are disappearing from the field of vision of the authorities before they can take these official measures and do not know exactly who they are looking for? This shows that once again Hungary's policy and the danger that we have drawn attention to is confirmed, that if illegal immigrants or other illegals enter the country, there is no possibility for them to be deported from the territory of the European Union, since they will not be able to identify them at the end of the procedure. It is therefore very important that we are faced with people who often fail to achieve a minimum of integration, not even a minimum of integration, of cooperation; for example, we have seen this from the throwing away of passports. This is why Hungary says no to compulsory introductions, so we also said no to a one-off quota and a permanent automatic quota. After all, as the MTA stated in its Research Institute report, there is a 10-year supply of immigration flows to the European Union, and for 10 years illegal immigrants will arrive from African and Asian countries to the same extent. In the event that the EU would put automatic quotas into effect, it would give a kind of quota invitation to everyone, since it would enter into a clear procedure. That is how we can say that the Union's plan is meaningless, illegal and dangerous. We therefore need to protect the borders within the Union, and the EU's external borders are a very important part of this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-03-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-table address: .Someones have stolen the country, that is indisputable. The question is, will they ever be responsible? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have read several specific corruption cases on your head here in Parliament. We will do that, but a common answer is why we did not like to press charges. You can be regarded as the heirs of Antall, who said you would have liked to have made a revolution and tried to pass on the responsibility. But we're the ones who filed the charges. We have made complaints, Mr House, but these complaints have been rejected. You could say that if these reports did not come to an end, then there may be no corruption in Hungary. We did it, they rejected it, it's closed. The only mistake, my fellow Members, is that someone had to steal this country in 25 years. And if we look at the numbers, they've been stolen. In a quarter of a century, citing only the most significant statements, in this country, at least 2.5 times the government debt was stolen from the country. And that's not what we're saying, it's international organizations looking to save offshore assets. Last time in the Hungarian press, the Tax Justice Network organization, which showed that Hungary is the 12th most lost country in the world, and we are rejecting countries such as Ukraine, Turkey, Kazakhstan, and we are absolutely the first in Europe. Well, not in per capita money thefts - in absolute value! We're talking about a ten million-dollar country. Even British researchers were surprised by this statement. I also have to say that this is the responsibility of the 25-year set, and by number we are talking about nearly 250 billion dollars. But the reason I said it was 2.5 times the government debt is because it's such a huge amount of money that it's actually really hard to describe zeros behind. We see someone stole it, we're trying to find those responsible. Who this was is, obviously the investigating authorities should find out, and the current government should be able to help them. But the money's missing. Meanwhile, we see that our politicians live in homes, houses that exceed their legal income for 15-20 years, not to mention their significant lifestyle. That is why we initiated the compulsory confiscation of assets if one of the politicians could not prove that he had obtained his income legally and, of course, this should be complemented by an analysis of wealth at the end of each cycle, including, of course, the relatives. But this would require the disclosure of the family's property statements in the first place. It doesn't surprise anyone, but unfortunately, the D.A. doesn't do anything by selling public procurements and investing for multiple market prices. For instance, the prosecutor's office thought that it was not even worth starting an investigation when a task was issued at multiple prices, with public money, to report the complaint to my fellow Member, Mr President Novak. And, of course, we can't complain because, in connection with the laws that you have amended, a Member of Parliament is not in violation of the public money thefts we have discovered and for which we have reported. It is also very interesting that Lajos Simicska's companies were able to win as long as he was in good friendship with Viktor Orbán. After the media has seen a breakdown in the relationship, your companies are barely winning. What a very interesting thing to do. And I am not sorry, my dear fellow Member Pócs, but it is about everyone seeing what is going on in this country. You can see it, you just don't care. Then, at the BKV, you can pay hundreds of millions of severance payments, not below you, but at the previous governments, and even in these cases, there is no accountability. So, the whole political set fits together in this respect. And, yes, court, prosecutor's office, especially the DA's office. We want an independent prosecutor's office. We want the negotiator to be independent, not in a chain of command system, the D.A.'s chiefs tell us that he has to press charges or he's gonna have to drop the charges. Because that's exactly what's happening today. But I could also mention a very clever way to save money or make money, the settlement government bond. It works for 204 billion forints from the state's betrayal of the right of establishment and is estimated to land 50-60 billion forints as commission for offshore companies. [[9.40]] Where do we live? This is about a quarter of the amount that comes into the state in the form of sovereign debt. That is why we have said that we need double punishment, yes, for politicians, politicians, and we want these crimes never to go away. Is that a strict thing? Yes, it is strict, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no one is required to be a politician; but if you are a politician, you are not obliged to steal the public money. But if you do, you're gonna have to deal with the consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik, as well as Dr. István Vitányi applauds.]]
u2015-11-03-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-03-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where no one is above the law. If you break the law, you have to bear the consequences. Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary has declared zero tolerance to corruption; every corruption crime that comes to the attention of the authorities is being persecuted. We have set ourselves the goal of Hungary being among the least corrupted countries. In order to achieve this goal, we have established strict laws; we have established organisations such as the National Defence Service, which is an internal crime detection and crime prevention organisation, which is specifically designed to prevent and detect corruption crimes. The government is committed to achieving these goals. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] We know that corruption must always be done more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. Therefore, the government is determined to establish the necessary laws and the necessary organisations for this purpose. But, honourable Member, we are not just talking about reducing corruption. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's benches, among other things: Well, you know that...]] We are also doing what we can to curb corruption. Jobbik should speak not with questions, but with answers. [[Interview from the benches of Jobbik: Béla Kovács! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Let them finally speak of Europe's biggest political corruption scandal, in which Jobbik's MEP Béla Kovács, has been accused of an unprecedentedly serious crime. And the Hungarian people and the voters of Jobbik would like to finally get an answer on what interests Gábor Vona still covers Béla Kovács, although he already admits in his interview at the end of the week, I quote: he would not put his hand on fire for Béla Kovács. Jobbik itself doesn't know what's going on within its own party, doesn't know why it's covering up this serious corruption suspect in the European Parliament. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] The legitimate expectation of people is to reduce crime, to act effectively, quickly and legally against criminals. You have repeatedly called upon the government to know what we have done to combat corruption. Dear Jobbik faction, This is your chance to come clean, come out to the public, reveal to the public the knowledge that you know about this case, this case. Tell me the truth, fellow Members. But not only in this case, not only does Jobbik misbehave on this issue, but, as I said, in the autumn of 2010, Parliament adopted the bill, the bill amending certain law enforcement laws that created the National Defence Service. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, This law, the Act establishing the National Defence Service, has given the Hungarian authorities a very important tool in the fight against corruption, and this law has not been voted for. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Not in 1996 either...]] You can look at Parliament's minutes. [[Dóra Dúró: I can do it!]] on the National Defence Service, which started its activities on 1 January 2011. This law, which was adopted by Parliament in 2010, was not supported or voted for. On the other hand, in April 2015, the Government adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme for 2015-2018 and the Action Plan for 2015-2016. Unlike in the past, the scope of this programme goes beyond public administration, including measures on the cleanliness of business life. The objectives require a firm implementation, which will only bring the desired results. Let me quote the 2011 European Union Anti-Corruption Report, from which I would like to quote: "Hungary is one of the countries where corruption in the national administrative institution shows the greatest decline. So this is a result that the competent administrative authority of the European Union has established for Hungary. Of course, as I have said, we must never be satisfied with the results achieved, we must always do more, and if they are aware of a single corruption crime, then, honourable Member, it is your duty to report to the competent authorities in the manner quoted in the Criminal Code and taking into account their consequences, because I think that if they do so, they will really do so to prevent corruption. Honourable Congressman, Confess, stand up to the public, reveal the [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hands in the air! Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2015-11-03-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: the opposition turned against Hungarian farmers. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It seems that even though we list our arguments in favour of the sale of state land, the opposition still does not want or can't understand them. While we are working to help Hungarian farmers, opposition representatives are pouring out misleading information and false accusations within the walls of the Parliament and through friendly media. Why do you not see, ladies and gentlemen, that the sale of state land is in the interests of Hungarian farmers and for the protection of Hungarian agricultural land? They should finally accept that the Hungarian land is the best place for Hungarian farmers; not for the state, not for foreigners, not even for large owners, but for Hungarian farmers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett keeps interrupting.]] The sale of some 350-380 thousand hectares of land, previously owned by farmers, serves several purposes at the same time. Small and medium-sized family farms are strengthened, long-term investments are created, so farmers can otherwise produce more competitively. And let's not go past that, because it's very important. I am convinced that only efficient farming can guarantee that Hungarian soil will remain Hungarian-owned in the long term. And in addition to all this, we will prevent the Hungarian agricultural land from reaching the hands of foreigners. Hungary belongs to the Hungarians, my fellow Members. The government has this principle, whether it is immigration or land policy or anything else. We open the door for 102,000 farmers to buy land. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] Sales are made in a public and fully transparent manner. In the case of areas below 3 hectares, as usual, public advertisements are made and public auctions are made over 3 hectares. Contrary to some press reports, this will take place not in Fejér county, but in Győr-Moson-Sopron, Heves, Nógrád, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg and Vas counties and the capital city for the first time on 16 November. This will be continued by the other counties on 23 November next week. At the auctions, plus 10 percent of the local market price can be the minimum starting price, and let's make it clear that there is no possibility of pricing. There are a number of warranty elements in the law to prevent speculation, investment land purchases, accumulation of property, and indeed to favour those who cultivate the land and want to make a living from it. Farmers living locally for three years with Hungarian citizenship can buy land, but they can own up to 300 hectares along with the land they own. The State shall be entitled to a right of repurchase for 20 years from the date of conclusion of the contract, for which a 20-year debit and disposal ban shall be put in place. This is also an opportunity for farmers even if they cannot use the land immediately. Imagine, farmers also buy forest, typically for their grandchildren. These are the facts, fellow Members of the opposition, not the slippages, the lies with which you deliberately want to mislead the public. Your anti-host policy knows no bounds. The left-wing opposition, in addition to continuing to represent the interests of speculators and large owners, is now working to give the land into the hands of foreigners. Let us remember, fellow Members, that is what they did on the government. If it were up to you, 600,000 acres of land would already be owned abroad through pocket contracts. [[György Balla: That's right!]] The Jobbik's testimony, along with what interests, is completely unsolvable. Obviously, it is up to you to decide just what interests to serve, where the wind blows. [[Rushing and voices from the benches of Jobbik, among other things: Oh! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] [[9.50]] My fellow Members would have forgotten that a few years ago [[Noise. Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] - I'll help you remember - in their 2006 program, they said [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] to initiate an amendment of the land law to ensure that land is preserved or recovered [[Noise. Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] the property of Hungarian farmers? And where are you now, fellow Members? As a national emotional party, you attacked the legislation on land sale procedures in the Constitutional Court by allowing only Hungarian citizens to participate in the auctions. [[Rush in the benches of Jobbik and LMP. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's how it happened. Nor do they deny, fellow Members, that they want to nationalise the domestic agricultural land on the basis of the St. Crown doctrine. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Simply steal it!]] Or not, but then it's not the Holy Crown. In their interests, in their values, fellow Members, there is only one common point: it is in stark contrast with the interests of Hungarian farmers. Dear fellow Members, Unlike you, we have the interests of Hungarian farmers in mind, we continue the work we have started. [[Rush and noise in the lines of Jobbik and LMP. The president's ringing the bell.]] our fight for farmers. The Hungarian countryside can count on us. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Fantastic!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-03-18	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members who are arriving now to take their seats, because the basic noise in this Chamber is very high. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Sándor Fazekas wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-03-19	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much, Mr President, for pointing the attention to this important issue, the issue of the earth, and I believe that it is good to see clearly why Jobbik has become part of the anti-farming opposition coalition. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Why did you join forces with the LMP and the MSZP? [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] For as far as we know, Jobbik is on the side of Hungarian farmers. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] At first glance, it's obviously hard to understand. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What a formation! Poor Fidesz is alone!]] , including those better Members who, who know what, signed when the Constitutional Court's submission was signed with their signature. Let us take a closer look at this question. So what is in Jobbik's program, which is now available on the website? I have it here, by the way, and in the chapter on Agriculture, this is in the first paragraph, Honourable Parliament. [[Dóra Dúró: Rotate with profit!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We initiate an amendment of the land law to ensure that the land is preserved or returned to the property of Hungarian farmers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is clear that this return could relate to public land ownership. [[Delight and murmur in the ranks of Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] And in black and white, you have clearly described here, honourable Members of the Council, that you are demanding land distribution. It's not like that anymore. Today Jobbik will do everything to prevent Hungarian farmers from getting to the ground to protect their rightful property. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] For whose sake is all this happening? [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Interviews from Jobbik: Béla Kovács!]] It is not a complicated problem - if the land is not owned by farmers, then it should be the land of the large owners. That's what you're saying, so I hardly think there's another way. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Let the friends have it!]] That's what Jobbik really wants. You can see, obviously, the Jobbik has been on the side of the great estate ever since, since the major owner Lajos Simicska's media has been promoting and supporting Jobbik. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]] That's the price of good press, the price of your good press. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik. Intercoms from Jobbik: Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Jobbik therefore turned their backs on Hungarian farmers. He gave up his own principles and failed the Hungarian countryside, betrayed the Hungarian farmers. First, when he was dormping here in Parliament and proclaiming nationalization, and then, secondly, when he attacked the delivery of farmers to the ground in the Constitutional Court, in a clever manner, citing legal twists. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Sit down, Number One!]] Let us look carefully at the submission to the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, This says that a natural person of Hungarian nationality who lives locally as an auctioneer can participate. So at the auction, the regulation opens the possibility of participation for natural persons of Hungarian nationality. This is not what Jobbik likes, so they collected signatures and turned to the Constitutional Court. [[István Apáti: We have the right!]] that this measure does not exist. The list is also illustrious, Honourable Parliament, who have problems getting the Hungarian farmers to land. Hungarian Zoltán, Dr. László György Lukács, Foreman Novák, Gábor Vona [[Lajos Kósa: Shame!]] to whom it is embarrassing to get Hungarian farmers to land today, Zoltán Gőgös from MSZP, Róbert Benedek Sallai, András Schiffer, Péter Kónya [[Deficiencies and noise in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Anita Heringes, Dr. Zsolt Legény, József Tobias, Erzsébet Schmuck, and even Bernadett Szél. Congratulations! [[Rise and shine in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Congratulations on this opposition effort. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the pro-government benches.]] The anti-host opposition unit front has been established and led by [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Jobbik has overcome itself. That's the thing. And it doesn't matter what the Constitutional Court decides. We'll see. So what hurts Jobbik and MSZP, the LMP? That only Hungarian citizens can buy land in Hungary? So they came to attack so that foreigners could have the land of Hungary, because if someone says the land, then they must also say "b" too. That's what it says here. I think that is what Hungarian farmers see, Honourable Parliament. They see that the sale of land is in their interest, and they also see that they can only rely on Fidesz-KDNP to help them farm, help them get to the ground, help them to thrive in the Hungarian countryside [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Long live Butcher Lawrence!]] And for that, we need land. They can still count on Fidesz-KDNP, and we can help them sell land. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches and the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-11-03-20	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to focus now on the next agenda. Dear Parliament, The speeches before the agenda have been completed, and we are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows that the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 establishing a crisis relocation mechanism and adopting a report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EU) No 604/2013 of 26 June 2013 laying down the conditions and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6624. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 141 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, H/6370 on the adoption of the report by the President of the Curia on the provision of the legal unit and control of the municipal standard. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I welcome Dr. Péter Darák, President of the Curia, who is monitoring the decision-making process on the ground. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6370 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 116 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 48 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that H/6385 on the adoption of the 2014 report of the President of the National Court of Justice. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I welcome Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court of Justice. who monitors the decision-making process on the spot. [[10.00]] As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6385. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 111 votes to 31, with 28 abstentions. It follows that H/6384 on the adoption of the General Prosecutor's report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2014. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/6384. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 111 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons follows a series of steps. T/6631. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 107 against and without abstention. As the Parliament did not maintain the amendment proposal, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6631. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill by 134 votes in favour, 28 against and 9 abstentions. Following the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. T/6632 amending Act T/6632. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6632. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 111 votes in favour, 28 against and 32 abstentions. It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. T/6627 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6627/6. T/6627/7 and T/6627/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6627/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 111 votes to 30, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6627/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes to 31, with 29 abstentions. It follows that T/6629, on the amendment of certain transport-related laws, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6629/11. T/6629/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 109 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6629/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 29 against and 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6629/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes to 31, with six abstentions. The 2013 CCXXX on Hungary's central budget for 2014 follows. T/5954. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5954/33. and its summary report is T/5954/34. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5954/33. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes to 32, with 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5954/35. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 60, with no abstentions. The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. T/663. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6630 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 118 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstention. Next up is T/6635. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. [[10.10]] Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 112 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 112 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy and Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 112 against and without abstention. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6635. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 111 votes in favour, 63 against and without abstention. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/5349. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5349/8. and the summary report by T/5349/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, the Group of the MSZP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 110 against and 27 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and István Józsa. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 134 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5349/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes to 38, with 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5349/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. The H/6390 on the day of the Hungarian sporadic will follow. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/6390/8. H/6390/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/6390/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/6390/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 168 votes in favour, with 6 abstentions. It follows that T/4907 on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for the year 2014. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4907 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 112 votes in favour, 62 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/6369 on the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's 2016 single budget. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6369 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 112 votes in favour, 62 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/6326. Final vote of bill No 1. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of the National Assembly is T/6326/8. It sent a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council following a decision on yesterday's draft amending proposal. Opinion of the Council on granting prior consent to the adoption of the bill T/6326/10. Number 2 is available on the network. I would like to inform you that the rapporteur yesterday T/6326/11. No. 96 of the house rules submitted. A statement pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the final vote can now be held. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/6326/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes to 9, with 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/5906 on the real compensation of the Quaestor victims by independent Member Szabolcs Szabó. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 61 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth and József Tóbijas, MSZP, Members, on the implementation of the 2013 LIV on the implementation of reductions in energy prices on the world market. T/5921. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Ms Schmuck, Mrs LMP, Member of the CXXII of 2009 on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies. T/5276. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. [[10.20]] I ask you, will the Schiffer András Member, LMP be included in a series of subjects [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] T/5752 on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the wearing of certain public offices. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote. Previous Novak: Abstentions of those involved! Károly Kontra: How did you vote? Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's see, let's see.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 64 votes in favour, 107 against and without abstention. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not what you promised! A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled by Mr Staudt Gábor, Mr Jobbik, on the making public of the public contracts on the spending of public funds. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 59 votes in favour, 109 against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate between Hungary and the Kingdom of Belgium on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information until closure. The government referral is T/6963. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-03-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 1 April 2010, the Act on the Protection of classified information replaced the Act on State Secrets and Service Secrets and the Act on the National Security Inspectorate with the entry into force of the Act establishing the necessary legal bases for the conclusion and application of bilateral confidentiality agreements. Accordingly, the Slovak, Polish, Czech, Latvian, French, Austrian, Macedonian and the Republic of Albania have already concluded agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, which have already been published in law. We are currently negotiating similar conventions with 14 other countries. The conclusion of the Convention is necessary so that Hungary can participate in international security cooperation involving the exchange of classified information. In order to achieve this goal, it is essential to conclude bilateral agreements ensuring the protection of classified information. Dear Parliament, In order to establish the text of the bilateral agreement and to open negotiations, the mandate was given by the Prime Minister's decision on the preparation and establishment of international treaties for the mutual protection of classified information. According to the bilateral agreement before you, the National Security Inspectorate will also supervise the protection of classified information in the Kingdom of Belgium in the future. Under the Convention, Hungary undertakes to protect classified information exchanged or generated under the Convention on the basis of cross-compliance with the national classification levels set out in the Convention. In the framework of security cooperation to ensure mutual protection, the competent security authorities shall process the classified information provided, provide information and assistance to each other, recognise each other's personal and site security certificates and, where necessary, conduct visits to verify the processing of classified data. Dear Parliament, The Agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Belgium on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information was signed by the Contracting Parties on 21 September 2015 in Budapest. In view of the fact that under the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Convention, I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Katalin Csöbör, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-03-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, If it is Tuesday, Belgium, but of course that is not the reason why we are discussing the bill before us now, but there is a very topicality of the motion. The 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Act 1 defines the public interest which can be protected by classification primarily in Hungary's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Such protective public interest could also be the defence, national security, law enforcement and crime prevention activities. The European Union's area of freedom, security and justice was established to ensure the free movement of persons and to provide a higher level of protection for citizens. This higher level of protection is very justified, as criminal networks now operate across borders, and it is enough to think only of smugglers. Thus, law enforcement must also equip themselves primarily with information in the Member States. It is only symbolically fortunate that the Convention of Belgium, which is the seat of the centre of the EU, could be authorised to recognise with binding effect Hungary, since international cooperation is based not only on the exchange of information with different integration organisations, but also on the flow of information between States. The regulators of integration organisations only regulate the exchange and protection of classified data of these organisations, such as EU classified data or NATO classified data, and therefore remain a sovereign power of the States to decide whether, by raising information sharing with their partners to a high level, they will allow cooperation with the exchange of national classified information, by establishing rules on this in bilateral agreements. [[10.30]] As a result, it is no coincidence that our country started negotiations with the countries of the V4, including the Slovak, Polish and Czech Republic, as a result of which it has signed the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information with all three countries. Following this, Hungary also signed agreements on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information with the Republic of Latvia, the French Republic, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, while the Convention between Hungary and the Kingdom of Belgium on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information was signed in Budapest on 21 September 2015. As provided for in Article IV of the Fundamental Law. Article 2 of the Act states that everyone has the right to freedom and security of persons. Even with this constitutional obligation, we have no other purpose than to conclude other bilateral agreements with similar content. The intention to do so is clear from the Prime Minister's decisions. I would therefore ask you to support the proposal just before us, which concerns the agreement with the Kingdom of Belgium, pending the ratification of the next convention. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-03-24	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, During the period of the MSZP government, on 14 December 2009, the Parliament adopted the Act on the Protection of classified information, which replaced the Act on State Secrets and Secrets of Service and the National Security Supervisory Authority Act. The new legislation in force from 1 April 2010 has fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary, created a single system of legislation and institutions for the protection of classified information, while at the same time fulfilling our most important legal harmonisation obligations. The creation of a new law on the protection of classified data was justified by the need for a comprehensive review of the Law on State Secrets and Service Secrets, as there was a lack of rules on the protection of NATO, EU and national classified information abroad. The EU standards that have been amended since our accession to the EU have not been adopted and the necessary legal institutions have not been introduced. With the entry into force of the Act on the protection of classified information on 1 April 2010, it established the necessary legal bases for the conclusion and application of bilateral confidentiality agreements. Accordingly, Hungary first started negotiations with the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic, which resulted in the signing of the Convention between these countries and Hungary on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. On the basis of that law, the Convention between the Republic of Latvia, the French Republic, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Albania and Hungary on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information was concluded. Accordingly, the Socialist Party supports the adoption of the Act between Hungary and the Kingdom of Belgium on the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Information. Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-03-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if the factions want to give a keynote speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an applicant, so we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask the independent Members if they wish to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he has a closing point. [[Signal.]] Yeah. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2015-11-03-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to thank the Members who spoke, Katalin Csöbör, the representative of Fidesz and Imre Horváth, the representative of the MSZP, very briefly, for giving their support to the bill. I would also ask you and my fellow Members to vote in favour of this vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-03-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies follows. General debate on the bill amending law and other related laws until closure. The government referral is T/6979. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, When establishing a career in law enforcement, it was a government objective to increase the attractiveness of the public service, as well as to increase the financial appreciation of professional staff, thereby strengthening the maintenance of the career of law enforcement. From 1 July this year, we have taken a great step forward to achieve both goals, and, Honourable Parliament, there is no man in Hungary who would question the timeliness and practicality of this measure taken. Hungarian reforms work. As of 1 July 2015, the Law on the Service of Professional Personnel of Law Enforcement Bodies established a new system of salaries and advances. The salary development created by the adoption of the new law will be carried out within five years within the limits of the budget, with an average salary improvement of 50 per cent. From 1 July 2015, a differentiated salary increase of 15-25-30 per cent was carried out, while from 1 January 2016 an average additional salary increase of 5-5 per cent was made for four years. Dear Parliament, The 2015 XLII on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies before you. T/6979 on the amendment of Act T/6979 and other related laws. The primary objective of submitting bill No 1 is to establish a regulation on the remuneration of professional law enforcement personnel in 2016. On average, a 5 per cent salary improvement for 2016 is proposed by the bill with two elements. On the one hand, a significant part of the professional staff, with around 43 thousand people, will increase the monthly salary by 5 percent from 1 January 2016 and, on the other hand, will allow the payment of the performance allowance in 2016. In the case of members of professional staff, the monthly salary will be increased to those whose current temporary salary is not yet equal to the total statutory salary. The new salary system differs from previous wage regulation at a number of points and in terms of fundamental principles to the extent that a full transition is necessary for its full implementation. During this transition, the annual increase of 5-5 percent will increase the proportion of members of professional staff who are already fully paid under the new salary scheme. In the second half of 2015, the payment was made to 4333 of the professional staff who were already fully entitled to the salary under the new salary scheme, or - and this major part - even the so-called compensation fee. In their case, an increase in the salary may be achieved through performance assessment. [[10.40]] Members of the staff whose salary is below the statutory salary level in the second half of 2015 shall receive a guaranteed salary increase with two ceilings: on the one hand, the salary for 2016 shall not exceed 135 per cent of their salary on 30 June 2015 or, of course, no more than the salary under the new salary scheme. Dear Parliament, With this regulation, in 2016, nearly 7 to 8 thousand members of the professional staff will be fully converted to the salary of the new salary system, with a salary increase of between 1 and 5 per cent and a salary increase of around 43,000 persons is guaranteed to increase by 5 per cent. In addition, they may also receive an additional increase in the amount of any performance allowance. Another essential element of the salary development will be the payment of the performance allowance. It can be implemented for the first time in 2016 if the bill is adopted, depending on the results of the individual performance assessments of the previous year. This salary element will have significant budgetary coverage in the Ministry of Interior chapter, expected to amount to HUF 8 billion. Dear Parliament, In addition to regulating the salary in 2016, the bill also makes minor corrections to the new system of advancement, based on the practical experience gained during the first few months. Among these, it should be pointed out that the duty period required for higher grade posts for the subordinate staff will be reduced to four years in each category by adding one additional step. The reason for this amendment is, given the young age of the stock, the creation of more realistic rules to extend the range of persons who can be selected to fill higher positions of service. Among the changes to the system of advancement, the bill clarifies the rules governing the classification of non-starters to be recruited from a professional register, as well as the provisions on the assignment of managers to the level of payment when the management position is loaded and the calculation of the waiting period for drivers. In addition, the progress in the waiting period of the management staff is also conditional, as is the case for the staff. As a requirement, it defines the fulfilment of the training obligation and the achievement, on average, of the achievement of at least the good performance step in individual performance assessments. The bill also contains amendments to other laws in some areas, including the possibility of using these entities in the law on police and disaster management, in order to enforce the legislation on candidate law, which will enter into force on 1 July 2016, and the amendment also opens the possibility to publish and deliver employers' measures electronically in addition to HSzt. in the case of government officials. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Before today's hearing of the bill, we held a two-round five-party consultation on the initiative of the Minister of Interior in order to provide as much support as possible for the adoption of this important bill. With the submitted bill, our strong aim is to strengthen the financial and moral respect of the personnel of the law enforcement bodies and to keep them on track, thereby further strengthening Hungary's public security. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Péter Agh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-03-31	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Our government considered it one of the priorities of the years following the 2010 elections to create a state that serves the interests of the common good, the nation and the community instead of the individual. This may be based on a solid legal order based on public law, which is provided by the Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law also settled, inter alia, the constitutional situation and the fundamental rules governing the operation of law enforcement bodies. The previously adopted law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies was clearly designed to stabilise the state of law enforcement personnel performing public tasks and to ensure their recognition by drawing up long-term and predictable careers. The bill settled the status of law enforcement agencies, and the new regulation also started the multi-stage wage development of the staff members in early July. The increase in wages is a worthy recognition of the work that has been done so far, but it also strengthens the way in which it remains on the track, and makes the career of law enforcement attractive to young people. With the new salary system, the value of the given job, the experience and performance of the service and the ability to ensure a gradual increase in salary for the entire career have really been recognised. Ladies and gentlemen, More serious salary increases were only under the first Fidesz government in the home affairs sector, but the current one is larger. The majority of law enforcement workers received with satisfaction the new career model introduced on 1 July 2015 and the salary increase. The salaries of the members of the professional base and of the civil servants of the law enforcement agencies increased by around 60,000 people in 2015. On average, 30 percent of the subordinates, deputy officers and officers received a salary increase of between 15 and 25 percent of the command staff. Between 2016 and 1 January 2019, the total stock will receive an average annual salary increase of 5-5 per cent. This increase in wages is significant as, by the end of the five-year wage development process, the salary of all members of the stock will increase by 50 per cent. In addition to the law enforcement staff, the salaries of professional law enforcement staff increased by 5 percent from July and by another 5 percent from next January. The wage development is multi-stage, the first phase of which took place on 1 July 2015. The main objective of the current amendment is to implement the next phase and to establish the rules for the development of salaries on 1 January 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, The new career model introduced on 1 July and the salary increase are the result of a long-term process, but we need not only to highlight the salary increase, but also to create a new, more modern system of advancement for law enforcement. This respect has been earned, because maintaining Hungary's independence and legal order, protecting the financial assets and security of citizens and the nation is a public service provided by law enforcement workers. Today, it is even more obvious that the work of Hungarian law enforcement agencies is outstanding, because by them Hungary has shown that it is able to protect not only its own external borders, but also the external borders of the European Union. This task tested the country's ability to perform. During the migration pressure of the last few months, the members of the law enforcement staff and everyone who performed their duties on the Hungarian-Serbian and Hungarian-Croatian border section were excellent. On this basis, the Fidesz fraction supports the necessary legislative amendments to increase the salary of the stock in the following year, and we encourage all members of the House to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In April 2015, MSZP voted in favour of the new Service Act. Although the government's proposal had several serious flaws, it promised the law enforcement workers a salary increase, a predictable, continuous career. The MSZP voted in favour of this new system of promotion and salaries. It is sad that, even though we haven't passed the new law in six months, the government will make a second amendment to it. The amendment we have just tabled contains both forward-looking, eligible elements and, unfortunately, a number of provisions of serious concern. Several amendments are specifically aimed at further increasing the obligations of law enforcement workers. I would like to make it clear that the MSZP does not support any amendments which further increase the burden of law enforcement workers, the new law on the service created as a result of lengthy, intensive consultations already contained quite a lot of, perhaps too many, compromises on workers' rights. [[10.50]] Therefore, amendments have already been tabled this morning to leave the provisions which increase the burden on law enforcement workers. The MSZP will support the bill only if the provisions on workers are removed or if we receive satisfactory answers to the questions raised. As regards the details of the bill: first, I would like to draw attention to the forward-looking elements that we can support. First of all, the Ministry of Interior has been honoured that, just as in the spring in the case of the Service Act, this time even before the submission of the bill, a substantive five-party consultation was convened. It is positive that, when adopting the rules governing the living and working conditions of law enforcement workers, the Ministry of Interior seeks to ensure the widest possible scope of parliamentary support with the substantial involvement of opposition parties. We welcome the continued development of the law enforcement staff. At the same time, it is important to note that the 5 percent mentioned will not be the average but the maximum rate for next year's increase. Depending on the new salary table classification that has been in force since 1 July, there will be more people who will not receive a salary increase. We also welcome the fact that the bill restores the original April text of the Service Act, according to which it will be possible to pay the staff from next year. This provision was amended by the first amendment of the Service Act adopted in June to allow for the first application of performance only in 2017. At the time, this amendment was strongly criticised by the MSZP. We are pleased to see that the government is now retiring in this regard. In addition, the bill contains a number of amendments which correct and improve the applicability of the current text of the Service Act. These amendments are also eligible. At the same time, in addition to these forward-looking elements, as I have already indicated, the bill contains a number of provisions which further limit the rights of professional staff and increase their obligations. A further increase in the maximum duration of the prescribed over-service shall not be eligible. The potential level of over-service is already very high in the Service Act. According to this, up to 350 hours of overtime per year can be ordered. In addition, members of the professional staff may carry out an additional 60 hours of overtime on a voluntary basis. The bill before us sets only one limit to order overtime: the weekly service period should not exceed that laid down in the relevant EU directive, i.e. the weekly service period should not exceed 48 hours. However, the maximum weekly overtime may be ordered up to every week of the year, i.e. the number of overtime hours that may be ordered at the annual level may exceed 400 hours. Only the increase in the maximum monthly period of standby is more amazing, which, according to the bill, increases from 168 hours to 260 hours, which is totally unacceptable. Here, I would like to respond to the statements of the lead speaker of Fidesz, which were commendable for the recent restoration of Hungarian law enforcement agencies, which, of course, we would like to confirm and repeat here. However, it is a strange thank you from the government and Fidesz in their direction that they wish to repay their proven performance over the past period by increasing the duration of both their standby and overtime to practically unacceptable levels, and, if you look at it this way, they intend to require additional free work. It is regrettable that the Government insists on the idea that the new salary scheme provided for in the Service Act will be fully applicable only from 1 January 2019. As a reminder, according to the original text of the Act adopted by a huge majority in April, the new salary scheme should have been applied from 1 January 2016. The Act established transitional rules only for the period 1 July to 31 December 2015. These transitional rules were intended to ensure a 30% increase in the salary promised. However, to a great deal of shock, the service law created as a result of the long months' negotiations was amended before its entry into force in June. This was provided that the new salary scheme would be fully effective only from 1 January 2019. The bill before us must, inter alia, be submitted in order to lay down transitional rules for payment of salaries for 2016. According to this, there will be those who, although subject to a new salary system, will not receive an increase of more than 5% next year. It is sad that the method of raising salaries and the additional transitional rules will also be resolved on a case-by-case basis in 2017 and 2018. In our opinion, this case-by-case legislation from year to year is very far from what a career model with predictability and stability should offer. We do not dispute that creating and introducing the careers of tens of thousands of law enforcement workers is a very complex and difficult task. However, it is also a fact that in the case of the military career model they have been able to fully introduce the new salary system as of 1 July 2015. It is regrettable that in the case of law enforcement workers, the conditions for this are not guaranteed by the government. In addition to the refusal to increase the workload of the staff and the general criticism of the introduction of the new salary system, we disagree with a number of provisions of the bill concerning the service relationship. On the basis of the position of the MSZP so far, the provision extending the powers of the Hungarian Police Faculty is not eligible. According to this, the Hungarian Police Faculty will be entitled to use a warning or reprimand against the members of the professional staff on the basis of ethical procedures. In our view, it is necessary to maintain the regulation that sanctions against professional staff can only be imposed by the practitioner of disciplinary powers under disciplinary proceedings. The professional public body of the law enforcement sector should not be authorised with such powers, since the police sector does not operate on the basis of self-government, but on the basis of government management, under strict constraints. We are opposed to the fact that the bill would allow for a waiver of the right to complain against disciplinary disciplines. Waiving the right of appeal is common in procedural laws. At the same time, in view of the strict chain of command of law enforcement agencies, it is appropriate, in the case of the Service Act, to rule out the risk that a person subject to disciplinary proceedings may be dismissed from his right of complaint either on the spot or at the time of the imposition of the sanction. According to the bill, declarations made in electronic documents should also be considered as written. In the view of the MSZP, it is an important provision for warranty reasons that certain legal declarations concerning the service relationship are bound to the written form of the law in force. In the case of statements of great importance and often cause for dispute, such as the establishment, modification and termination of the service and decisions in disciplinary, indecent and damages matters, it is considered appropriate that the publication should continue to take place on paper rather than in electronic form. All the more so, ladies and gentlemen, because, after the entry into force of the new labour code that you have adopted, countless cases have come to light where employers, on the basis of the electronic form, have fired people on a market basis, but simply abusing this opportunity in the form of virtually an e-mail. These cases have come to light, and these cases have caused a huge scandal. Imagine the condition of having to do the work of a law enforcement organization, a professional employee in command control, under such threat. We believe that this is unacceptable, even if this proposal for an amendment is not necessarily intended for this purpose, but even gives rise to abuse. We believe that it is justified to keep a written form of dismissal, termination of employment and the most basic disciplinary and indignity procedures. I must draw attention to the important fact that the bill contains not only provisions on the service of law enforcement workers. The most questionable element of the bill is the amendment of the two-thirds national security law. The amendment adds to the list of bodies which, at the request of the Director-General of National Security Services, are required to employ the staff of the services. Such an obligation will be imposed on infrastructure, application and content providers, postal service providers and bodies and facilities subject to national security protection as defined in the Government Decision, as defined in the separate legislation. This list raises a number of questions. The definition of infrastructure, application and content providers is not defined anywhere in the Hungarian legal system. [[11.00]] A similar concept is contained in the Press Act, namely the concept of media content provider. According to this, a media content provider is a media service provider or a provider of any media content. We very much hope that's not what the author meant. The point is, without a precise definition, it is feared that the proposed amendment to the National Security Act could open up an extremely broad interpretation that would allow companies operating news portals, radios and televisions to fall into this category. For example, it would be totally unacceptable for Internet news portals to be obliged to hire covert staff from national security services in the editorial offices of content providers. It also appears to be of concern that, according to the bill, in the future, there will be unlimited extension of the scope of bodies that will be obliged to employ the staff of national security services if requested. On the basis of the government decision referred to, all the mayor's offices are already in this area. I would like to remind you that in 2008 Lajos Kósa and Ervin Demeter, even as opposition representatives, was considered an unheard of attack on democracy when the government decided to protect the local authorities from national security. Now, oddly enough, none of them raise their words, although the mandatory employment of national security services by local authorities gives the national security services much more opportunities than they were still severely criticised in 2008. In view of this, the position of the MSZP is summarised: despite several forward-looking provisions of the bill, it cannot be supported in its present form. The additional burden of law enforcement bodies is unacceptable to the MSZP, while the amendment of the National Security Act raises more problems than it solves. We hope that the detailed discussion phase will be able to clarify the remaining open issues and to establish a law acceptable to law enforcement. In the latter case, the MSZP will support the bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-11-03-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-35	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government's 2014 public service life plan on the introduction of a new public service career By decision of the Government, the Parliament adopted the concept of the introduction of a new public service career in order to transform public service systems, establish law enforcement, defence and administrative careers, as part of which, in respect of those employed in professional service, the Parliament adopted the XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The law, the Shst. The bill on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies has a historical dimension. The purpose of this legislation was the 2015 XLII. When drafting a law, the principle of which was to be used to value professional staff and to improve public safety. It is in our national interest to establish the service relationship of professional staff in a law that enhances the attractiveness of the track, while at the same time creating the optimal conditions under which members of professional staff can perform their service in such a way as to ensure and ensure full enforcement and compliance with order and public security. This is the legitimate expectation of citizens, which serves the public's sense of security. In general, the principles of the new public service career are based on principle, legal basis and complexity. The establishment of a predictable and motivating system of advance and new salary was one of the aims of the law governing the employment relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. And we find that this purpose is fulfilled by the law. I would also like to remind the House that we have included in the preparation of the proposal the professional staff and the relevant advocacy and interest organisations, the Hungarian Police Faculty. The members of the stock filled out a questionnaire and made a proposal during the legislative work. The proposals made were incorporated into the new law. As it is known, among the most important changes, the automatic promotion system has ceased, the management posts are for a limited period of time, and the former members of the professional staff have created a reserve pool. By the way, almost all of the members of the staff requested the development of a new salary system prior to the amendment of the law. As I mentioned earlier, on 1 July 2015, with the entry into force of the new Act of Service, a historical change occurred in the lives of professional members of the law enforcement system. After many years of waiting, the new salary increase, which has not been experienced since 2002, has brought about a significant change in the financial value of professional staff, with a system of advancement based on new principles being introduced. With the establishment of the new salary system, our aim was to reflect the value of the service position, the value of the service experience, the appreciation of the professional staff and the performance of the staff during that period. However, the latter was not incorporated into the lease. By 1 January 2019, a multi-stage increase of 50% will take place. The proposal also launches the creation of a basic idea of public administration reform, employment coherence between public service professions and interoperability. The scope of the law covers the professional staff of the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, professional disaster protection, prison execution, civil security services, the Parliamentary Guard, the National Defence Service, the National Tax and Customs Office. Wage development takes place in several stages. The first phase has already taken place on 1 July 2015. With the new promotional system classification and additional individual correction as required, each member of the professional staff will receive a differentiated salary increase of 30-25 percent and 15 percent respectively, followed by an additional average salary increase of 5-5 percent over the next four years. Shh. The main objective of this amendment is to establish the rules for the development of salaries on 1 January 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this amendment, as is supported by the KDNP fraction in the coming time, in order to show our appreciation and appreciation for the service of professional law enforcement professionals and by deciding on the proper responsibility for the security of citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-03-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to start with the positives, too. It is a pleasure that the Ministry of Interior is now in order for preliminary five-party negotiations and seeks to bring the comments and proposals made there to the House, so that it can be used and correct from all sides of the opposition, let us say, the compromise proposals are incorporated into the draft legislation. I would very much like other ministries to act in the same way. However, I am pleased that BM has now been treating this as a practice for a long time, and this is certainly commendable. What is less commendable is that when we modified and created Hst., everyone took it, at least on the government side, that it was practically carved in stone, so great that it was not to be touched for a long time. And, well, you have to touch it again, but in this case it is not necessarily a problem, because it contains a number of corrections, very correct and practical clarification. I don't think I have much to hide, and Jobbik has already supported any proposal that served the work of members of law enforcement, law enforcement or military personnel, and promoted it, and that will be no different now, and will be no different in the future. However, we have some questions, of course. Well, I wouldn't list the positives right now, because I could go through it itemally, paragraph by paragraph, but obviously I'm going to highlight a few things. [[11.10]] For the sake of constructive debate alone, I would rather ask questions, which, let us say, is worrying or, where appropriate, may contain only ambiguous, possibly clarification. Here is perhaps the most important one, the over-service and contingency regulation, which has been modified by reference to an EC directive. This is not quite clear whether it should be understood, for example, as my fellow Member Bellozó said, or this is only a category from one to one, because if the 350 overtimes per year happen, it is indeed a great deal, and the standby time, at 260 hours a year, it can be a great deal, if the stock is loaded at a level such as that which has been in the past, when virtually everything that can be moved and moved had to be directed down to the border or to different border sections. In such a case, these standby times and overtime can become an unbearable category for those affected who are really doing their job. However, with regard to disciplinary proceedings, I would also like to point out that the guarantee may not necessarily be read out of the proposal, which could, where appropriate, give rise to an abuse. I don't suppose, and I don't suppose any commander would like to abuse this possibility, but since we're human and people make mistakes, it's in the cards, so it might be worth reconsidering that certain guarantee rules can be put in place for the worker's benefit or for the presumption of innocence. Which is perhaps an interesting thing, although my fellow Member Harangozó has said very strongly about civil intelligence services - there is the 25th. § 1 which provides for the right of choice in relation to freedom of time redemption, namely that this election does not apply to members of civil national security services - for them, if understood correctly, it is the competent commander of the staff who decides - although he is added that it is in the interest of the service - that, in the case of certain posts, over-services can be redeemed by remuneration or in free time. Here's a question as to what cases this concerns. I understand that the various members of the civil secret services perform rather specific tasks and not necessarily in the window, but at the same time, if the freedom of choice is not violated by the performance of the task, then why shouldn't it be appropriate for any person belonging to a civil secret service, because what I don't understand is that if a situation is not in the interest of the service, then why shouldn't it decide whether he wants to receive it in payment or in freedom? Obviously, as a special task, if the service interests dictate it, it is quite clear that it is not possible to give up, because it is a matter of national security, but if there is no special situation and it can be resolved, then why is there no freedom of choice, I would like to do so... - if there are some strong thoughts, how should this be interpreted or why this option is not available. It is quite clear that working conditions are improving, and these clarifications and corrections make the proposal and the existing system much more practical, but at the same time I would also like to warn you that the salary increase is very welcome and very correct, and I also understand that it cannot be from one moment, let us say, that the Hungarian budget does not allow so many people to have a salary improvement that would be desirable from one moment to the next, but it is not groundless criticism that the planned time interval is being pushed forward. I would very much like it not to be like this in the future. It is now 2019, but earlier this was 2016. I am very confident that there will be no other change in this regard, unless the date 2016 or possibly earlier than 2019 returns. However, I would also like to say here that we can, of course, support and support the proposal, because it will certainly bring forward the working conditions, respect and existential status of the members of the stock, but I would like to answer the few questions that, if necessary, this can only be done with carelessness or some changes in detail, because if we can make it better, then make it even better. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In advance, I would like to express my thanks for the fact that here, before this bill, the Ministry of Home Affairs initiated five-party negotiations. I would like to trust that this is not just about the two-thirds provisions, but also becomes a practice by the Ministry of the Interior, at least as much as the amendment proposals received from the opposition will be received by the Ministry of Interior, not with prejudice, but with an objective, if appropriate, open to correction. I would like to say that it is likely that the country would go further and that a calmer atmosphere would prevail in Hungary, that if negotiations had been held earlier and other ministries, instead of national consultation, they would have continued the practice of meaningful inter-party negotiations. Dear Parliament, Like other opposition parties, the LMP supported the new Service Act a few months ago, with very serious compromises and basically with a view to raising the salary of police personnel. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the salary increase did not take place as expected by us and by the members of the professional staff, and that, in the bill, overtime is raised to the EU's maximum and standby time is increasing. The story can be summarized by trying to mask the serious shortage of numbers by increasing overtime and standby time. I would also like to point out, first of all, what we have said in other legislative proposals on similar matters in recent months, that the proportion of workers' poverty in the public sector is quite critical, more than 30%, and when we talk about law enforcement bodies, we should not just think of the professional stock, because the work of those who are not in service is also essential for professional, accurate and legal work, and in their case the proportion of those living below the poverty threshold is particularly striking. I would also like to recall, although we are in a constant debate with the Minister of Interior, that if and if trade unions, trade unions, were to get their licenses back, I think that those working under the poverty line, or otherwise humiliating, particularly burdensome working conditions, and other employees of law enforcement agencies, would be more easily able to enforce their interests, and I think that a number of problems, complaints would be more effective if and if trade unions were allowed to operate within the police department instead of the police department, if and if the internal affairs portfolio were to conduct fair consultations with the law enforcement trade unions. It would have been particularly useful now, for example, if the wallet had already been involved in the negotiations, say the Independent Police Union, it would have listened to their views. It is quite simply necessary to see that anywhere in the world we look at any sector, where there are strong, functioning trade unions, where the various social work problems of the workers simply go to decision-making levels and are resolved sooner. I believe that the police, at all, may have been concerned or concerned about the impartial functioning of law enforcement agencies in the past by the operation of some trade unions, that by improving the various conflicts of interest rules that exist, these problems could be properly prevented. [[11.20]] But as long as there are no fair trade union licenses, as long as there is no trade union agreement within the law enforcement sphere, the acute social problems will not be solved. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the migration crisis, the LMP has put down a 24-point package of measures and has also tabled a bill in order, among other things, to greatly improve the budgetary position of the police by 2015-2016. These proposals were swept off the table, although this amending budget of the LMP would have been a solution to the shortage of staff. According to the bill submitted, the prescribed standby would now be increased by 84 hours a month, and the restriction on over-hours of up to 120 hours in four months would be abolished. In addition, the proposal addresses the shortcomings - and this is a positive - in relation to the salary increase that, without the change, salaries would be frozen by 2016 and could not be increased. The LMP has already indicated during the negotiations before the adoption of the new Service Act that the police are in serious need of staff. The reasons for this have been seen in the fact that this service makes a huge use of the staff, which is no longer compensated by the institution of the service pension, and is also reinforced by unfairly low pay. We have drawn attention to the fact that, due to the shortage of staff, the police are in a particularly negative position by the fact that they can only be redeemed in free time, the redemption in wages has been abolished by the law. The answer of BM was to fill the workforce with another 3,000 people in order not to cause problems, but the increase in the number has not yet taken place, due to the time of the necessary training. At present, due to the shortage of staff, the law becomes virtually unfulfilled, and even in free time they cannot redeem the overservice, or if they do, there will not be enough policemen to perform the basic tasks. The migration crisis has shown the extreme vulnerability of the system and has pointed out that exceptional situations can only be handled with full evisceration of professionals, but in order for this to be somewhat legal, Hst is necessary. also to amend the Service Act, in which the possibility of ordering over-services is increased as above. I would like to note here that, Mr Secretary of State, the migration crisis - not just because we are not beyond this at all, even if it was an act of fire-fighting at our borders - is not taken as a one-time force majeure. Unfortunately, at any time in the life of a country, there can be havarias that require such extraordinary efforts from police personnel, law enforcement agencies. When we say that the migration crisis has brought about the number of police problems, it is not enough to show that we are not uploading the stock because this crisis is coming down and then we will not know what to use this stock for. It's not like that. In any case, there is a shortage of numbers, and, unfortunately, crises can occur in any country with increased pressure on law enforcement agencies. The country's public security is threatened by the need to divert additional forces from the basic tasks of the police, which are already lacking in numbers, to the border police directorate. We see that the LMP sees that the other two branches of the career model - the insurance system, which is intended to compensate for the lack of a service pension system and the housing support system - are still missing. Overall, the predictable career model also includes not changing the rules too often, so there really should be a predictable career model, and I would stress once again: this includes an insurance system that triggers the service pension system that you have previously abolished, and a housing support system. The shortage of numbers is becoming more and more serious. There's a high number of dropouts. Typically, there is no return to the organisation after decommissioning, and it is not enough to deal with the implementation of the measures already planned by the Home Affairs Government, i.e. the deployment of 3,000 new police officers within three years. Here, I would point out that the LMP had previously made proposals with regard to the vigilantes that would have tried to channel the knowledge of decommissioned law enforcement to the system bypass. The daily modification of the status law does not serve the predictability of the career, it is not possible to eviscerate those in the professional population, because their right to privacy is severely restricted, and the possibility of overwork as proposed is virtually terminated. The shortage of staff cannot, of course, be resolved suddenly, but the reserve should be mobilised, could be. It would be important to facilitate the re-entry of former colleagues, and to provide a salary framework instead of central wage management that hinders admission to precincts in the case of applicants who are suitable for existing but unfilled statuses. For example, if there's a police officer, there's a status, but the payroll is being distracted by the county. The possibility of redemption of overwork in cash should be restored so that police officers do not remain unrequited. Dear Parliament, These criticisms have, of course, been formulated during the five-party negotiations, and I would like to continue to stress that, in addition to the fact that, among professional staff, people's everyday sense of security is directly threatened by working under inappropriate conditions if they are eviscerated, if the signalling system that trade unions can report on the exact working conditions is not working, but it is at least as important that poverty is today taking on tragic proportions among non-service law enforcement employees. With great respect, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that the internal affairs portfolio should immediately submit to the House a proposal on how we can manage the salaries of non-service law enforcement staff. The policy that the government is pursuing in general is not acceptable because it is trying to put pressure primarily on the wages of public sector workers in order to lower the wage level across the country, because government policy runs precisely to offer low-wage, vulnerable workers, and then they will open up a lot of assembly plants in Hungary. This does not serve Hungary's rise. In addition, chronic poverty in the law enforcement sector, the evisceration of law enforcement personnel, and unworthy working conditions threaten people's everyday sense of security. For this reason, I would like to ask the government, in addition to putting forward a proposal without delay on the salaries of non-professionals, non-service-related people, to restore the powers of trade unions, to start a meaningful reconciliation of interests with the law enforcement trade unions. It is for the safety of all of us that law enforcement workers work under humane conditions and technical conditions, and we regard as dangerous the policy that is reflected in this bill when overtime is raised to the EU's maximum. I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State here with great respect whether any comparative analysis has been carried out in the preparation of the bill within the Union, in how many countries, so to speak, to maximize overtime. How many countries are in the EU, where overtime is maxed out, and if I do not assume so, but if it has been examined, do you have information on what led the individual governments in these countries, or if there was a country where they have only temporarily used the possibility of raising overtime to the EU's maximum. It would be important to see this, as it is important to follow our proposal, which we put on the House's table in the spring, in the law enforcement agencies, but also to facilitate the further employment and further service of former retired law enforcement officers. Quite simply, the country loses by not being able to use their skills and expertise to the benefit of the public, and we also believe in the concrete bill that chronic shortage of staff can be alleviated by the fact that the re-employment and re-introduction of former decommissioned police officers would be facilitated by legislation. So on this basis, we take this bill into reasonable doubt. [[11.30]] I would like to ask the government to fulfill earlier promises, not to deceive law enforcement workers, and to carry out a clear assessment of the consequences of raising overtime to the EU's maximum. Let the Secretary of State explain to the House in this debate what practice applies to the application of the EU's maximum in the European Union, when, with what consequences and for how long it will be applied by other EU Member States. Such a bill can be supported with a good heart if it contributes both to an increase in people's sense of security and, on the other hand, to the eradication of workers' poverty in the public sector. This proposal is not like this. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the first independent Member to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am saddened to see that the general debate of the law was not appreciated by the chairman of the Defence and Police Committee and by several pro-government members. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] I think that this is an amendment to this law, which is so important to those working in the area of law enforcement, in which, once they have sat on this committee, they should perhaps be here, participate and listen to the arguments of opposition representatives. I've divided the legislative package into three parts, so I'd go through it and analyze it. For the first group, I would say, in any case, that I have listed the legislative amendment paragraphs on corrections to prove the incompetence of law preparation. I'll ask myself, perhaps, but I'd rather ask myself, although there are positive elements of the law amendment, why am I talking about the incompetence of lawmakers? As my fellow Members have already referred to it, the new and predictable career model was announced in the Government decision of 30 December 2014 in both the defence, police and administrative fields. In this context, the Parliament discussed in April of this year the law on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies, the HSt. At the same time, we were barely past the final vote of the law when, a few days later, BM had tabled a new amendment to the amendment which had already been tabled by itself, which had already passed a final vote. In this amendment, the new salary system adopted earlier in the final vote was pushed into force by 2017, even though it should have been fully put into effect by 1 January 2016. It has not been six months after the entry into force of the law, and we are now discussing a new legislative package of 47 paragraphs, which mainly includes further corrections to the new salary system and career model already voted in favour. What is this if it is not an eloquent proof that pre-lawers demonstrate their professional incompetence? I dare say this, in particular, that the professional preparation of the new career model was not six months ago at the Ministry of the Interior, but the professionals have been working on it for years. In a better place, the responsible ones will be placed on their feet and not rewarded. Several of my opposition fellow Members referred to it and gave a positive assessment of the five-party discussions that were held before, and before, the amendment in April. At the same time, I was sorry to note that, although I indicated that I wanted to attend these five-party discussions, I was not invited to any of them. Thus, it is likely that Congressman Schiffer is right, who expressed doubts as to whether these five-party negotiations really prove the willingness to compromise the internal affairs portfolio, or whether they are actually talking about their need to vote for two-thirds of the laws. I dare say this just because, while attending the committee meeting and submitting several amendments to the original amendment, I have actually seen that neither the opinions of trade unions nor the opinions of the profession nor the opposition representatives were taken into account in the submission or vote of the law, since if they had been done, the law would not have had to be amended twice in one year. What are the positive changes that this package now contains? In any case, I consider it positive that the source has been found to ensure that twice a year's performance is first received by the stock not only in 2017 but also in 2016. Although this is determined by the law at a maximum annual salary of 3 months, according to my information, the portfolio will provide a two-week/person framework in 2016, which means that one person of the six members of the stock can receive a maximum of the legal framework, right, the other five will not receive a penny of iron. Therefore, it should also be considered whether this framework is enough, while we definitely consider it positive that this can already be done in 2016. Given the burden on the population in the context of the migrant crisis, I think that the wallet should be able to find some extra resources to at least get close to the limit that can be set. It is also positive that the distinction between the categories will cease to exist from 2016 in terms of wage development, i.e. until the average 30 percent wage development announced on 1 July 2015 had to be carried out with 30 percent of basic tasks, only 25 percent for non-cores, while 15 percent for managers, the 5% increase from 2016 on the average of the year-and-a-half could be a maximum 35 percent for everyone. At the same time, it is a problem that the law, with the amendments and corrections it has just submitted, will still not remedy the following problems, which will cause significant wage tensions in the stock. Those whose salary has increased by more than 35 per cent as a result of the new classification on 1 July 2015 or, as a result of the new classification and the termination of many allowances, would not have increased but rather decreased, and those who are now receiving a salary correction, well, they are the ones who are expected to be on the ground for up to four years. Nor does the amendment of the law deal with the fact that the police are running errands for the so-called loyalty money previously introduced. Losing this will result in a wage reduction of HUF 50,000 a month for experienced older cops if this is not triggered by a new system. It is also a particularly negative step backwards in this amendment compared to the law adopted in April, in order to withdraw clothing supplies and voluntary cash-in support from the pre-retirement members who are placed in the reserve. Even the withdrawal of clothing supplies may be acceptable in some way, such as by linking it to the time-proportionality of consumption, because obviously, if your uniform is not worn out in the reserve, so to speak, why should you receive clothing supplies? However, withdrawal of voluntary cash support could mean a loss of practically a form of income or remuneration, which is in no way justified. I have listed the amendments made necessary by the migrant crisis in the second group of the legislative package. At the same time, the problem is that if all of this were introduced only for qualified periods, it might even be acceptable, but making it systemic, i.e. applying it as a general principle and as a rule, is totally unacceptable because of the further increase in the vulnerability of the stock. My fellow Members have already referred to it: one of these amendments is clearly an increase in the time of over-service, which instead of the current 350 hours, the average of which is 4 months, does not exceed 120 hours, which introduces the period referred to in Article 6 (b) of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003. [[11.40]] However, it is not clear to me why the legislator does not specify in particular the amount of overtime or over-service that can be ordered in the amendment and why it quotes the number of this directive. How should a prison guard or a police officer posted on the street know what is contained in Article 6 (b) of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003. And, by the way, this directive says that countries should preferably regulate this in such a way that during seven-day periods, including overtime, work does not exceed 48 hours. At the same time, after the four-month limit of 120 hours falls out of it, it can be ordered continuously for up to 128 hours of overtime in 4 months. This means, by the way, that the previous 120 can be ordered every 4 months instead of 128 overtime hours. The situation is even worse than the standby service, where the maximum 168 hours per month are raised to 260 hours, which means that the additional 8-hour standby service can be ordered for up to a whole month, or the 24-hour standby service can be ordered for at least 15 days from the 30 days of the month. Do you fellow Members know what the standby service means? It would be good to have them look into it, because in practice we will achieve that professional members of law enforcement bodies will have neither rest nor leave, let's say, the possibility of saying that they will not be able to go on a trip with their families to another settlement. I might have noted it a little pesky, but it might have to be included in the final provisions that the CD of Fero Nagy, which is about 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest, 8 hours of fun, is given to police colleagues and prison guards to at least be able to listen to what this thing is about, because in the future they will have no chance of living it in reality. The third group, perhaps it can be said, is a group of reasonable amendments to this package of laws. For example, the electronicisation of legal declarations and its detailed rules, although my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, pointed out what abuse this could indeed cause in a law enforcement body. However, I think that the regulation itself seems relatively fair, and obviously it does not have to start from the point of view, nor does the legislator assume that, in principle, everyone wants to abuse it. At the same time, it will indeed have to be considered that this is indeed forward-looking in practice and that this amendment is not made with the intention of abuse. It can also be mentioned as positive for members of national security services that they will not include their social security numbers in the future, thereby increasing their security and their vulnerability. At the same time, if you have thought of the internal affairs wallet in some way about the identity cards, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that the internal affairs portfolio has been in default since 31 March 2013 because in a BM decree the pensioner's IDs have been terminated, and in relation to the retired service officers, firefighters, prison guards who have been transferred to a matrimonial status, a BM decree stated that from that time on, their service pensioner's ID is invalid. At the same time, it did not issue the BM Regulation or issue a new ID to extend its validity. I'd like to draw the attention of the wallet, as far as IDs are concerned. And perhaps the most positive amendment to this package of laws is that in the future, the time to deal with a service complaint will not count against the limitation period. This shows that, indeed, there is some kind of compromise in the management of the wallet, and sometimes they listen to the complaints that arise from practical experience. And finally, I would also like to say a thought, and I would also like to thank the professional staff, including the soldiers, from here in Parliament's plenary, for their sacrifice over the past period. I think that all Hungarian citizens should look with respect and honor at what they have done in the past. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare applause on the opposition side.]]
u2015-11-03-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I declare that she has withdrawn her written declaration of opposition. [[Novak's First Clap.]] There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-03-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would like to point out and thank you in part for the fact that, in a sense, I see things that have been formulated in connection with the events of the five-party negotiations and the experience of life - the 2011 Labour Code, and then I recall it a little - the experiences that are coupled with the call to life of the torsos, their weeding or partial oblivion comes back through the work that is being formulated here in the draft of the law. If you will allow me, Mr Secretary, then consider it as if I have said all the positive things that my fellow Member Konya or fellow Member Bellozó has just said and I will continue to say from there. This is not to say that it is possible to speak only in a negative voice about the content of this bill, but rather the opposite of all the things that have been said in this sense by my fellow Member, I do not wish to repeat it, but I also see it in the same way. And then let's look at the part of what is more problematic, just because I trust that constructivity has the potential, in effect, to reach the point where the bill can be supported from the opposition's side in as many directions as possible, even through the adoption of amendments. With regard to the career of law enforcement, we had no doubts as to what our attitude should be. The Hungarian Socialist Party, virtually a good six months ago, did not randomly support measures that were most reflected in terms of material appreciation. On the other hand, there are some internal things that raise questions about the immediate burden, that is to say, the growth of obligations. I would like to draw your attention to these, and, if possible, to make you think. This is where I quote the 2011 Labour Code. At the time of the hearing of that Labour Code, we tabled 708 amendments from the opposition within the walls of Parliament. The Hungarian Socialist Party itself tabled an amendment of over 500. I'm saying this because there's obviously some kind of synchronization of Hst. , Mt., i.e. the forms of employment involving legal relationships. And it was clear then that the regulation of the Code of Work, which is being brought to life, is a torso, that it will certainly break in a few years' time in a change of circumstances. Today, too, those who were opposed to our positions at the time, and who hated our amendments, citing our amendments, are now proclaiming that even among the walls of Parliament there is such a fellow Member on the government side, that, indeed, life has proved and needs to make changes. The direction of the changes, I would like to point out now, is turning in the direction that we indicated to you at the time with our amending proposals. We would like us to say that the same process should not take place with regard to this draft law; it would not have to be three or four years before we have to draw conclusions and make the necessary changes in practically reawakening. [[11.50]] As a result, we believe that the provisions on workers should be reconsidered. There have also been two approaches to redress and electronic administration. Here, as my fellow Member Konya has said, there is obviously a certain practicality for which it is appropriate and reasonable to think, and there is also a surface for which it is necessary to ensure that the kind of torsos I have just mentioned cannot even be applied at random. A measure relating to the legal relationship, Mt. In the case of work-related, service-related measures, not even randomly start in the form of a discarded e-mail, because this leads to chaos. But it has to be recognised, and I also think that it is necessary to support the existence of certain electronic procedures and procedures. I am motivated only by caution, care and, to say the opportunity to get in the way of it, to indicate that, however, care must be taken to ensure that measures relating to direct termination of a legal relationship are not taken in this way. Similarly, it is important to address the possibility of redress, the issue of waiver or waiver of the right of appeal, how and how it can be interpreted and how it should be done and how it should be allowed to do so. What concerns the other part of the story: when we talk about financial appreciation, and Hst. we take into account, and we see that very many do not become involved in this material recognition process. This is not right, because they do not receive a raise or, as reflected in what my fellow Member has to say, the locality is in their hands. Of course, it should also be added that the burden, whether in terms of overtime or overtime, has already been mentioned here in terms of the formulation of 360 hours and other articles, but not the concreteization, the 48 hours of service per week, and the standby time, in terms of how to increase almost inexorably to 260 hours, all raise the question of whether an increase in the number of staff would not be the way to create a balanced job with as little error as possible for those who can obviously shape the process as superiors or owners of financial resources. I think that this other way would be more viable, and that even more positive shifts in terms of numbers should be enforced, enforced and not burdened, because the possibility of making mistakes will be increased by increasing the burden. And I guess no one wants that. The other part of this story is that if and if we are thinking about standby, but about overtime, then I think that from the employee's point of view, we should always look at the story as to whether entitlement is given to him in the context of deciding whether he is, or not, to decide that for the over-service, overwork he is doing, to be paid, or to be saved in leisure time. It is not a good way for the worker not to decide whether to create or create these things, but for others to decide that instead, because he is the one doing the activity, at least he should have the freedom of movement in this respect, so that he can decide whether to receive a fee or a spare time redemption. What I would like to draw your attention to, Mr Secretary of State, a half a year ago here in Parliament, we talked about the fact that the new salary system is practically in place in 2016. Now we are reading about the draft law, that it will be validated from 2019, and in 2017 and 2018 such interventions will take place, but these are the interventions that no one here in Parliament can predict today, no one can see in which direction it is going. The problem is not that we do not see it here in the walls of Parliament, but those concerned, to whom you have promised security, predictable careers, financial recognition and much more, they must now face it, they see that the kind of security that they have expected from the beginning of 2016, from the date and now, and 2019 will be the hopeful time when they can re-believe that hope will never die, they can believe that everything that should have happened in 2016 will actually happen. I would like to draw attention to two more things. One of these concerns the range of employees and employees who are in the framework of a professional relationship. In this respect, I feel a little thin about thinking that has not even been written on paper, so it has not even been written on paper, translated into Hungarian, people who do not support the work of law enforcement bodies, I do not see the positive progress processes or the design intentions of those that would be important and essential. After all, their work influences, shapes, shapes, and influences the work of those who do work within the framework of professional service. It would therefore be worth addressing this, and it would be worth reviewing the events of recent years in terms of wages and salaries, and taking into account the lessons learned from this and taking into account the fact that this circle should also be found in the sense that it should be able to provide adequate remuneration in order to be the better, in a good sense, servers for professional staff. The other thing I would like to say is that it is to maintain and strengthen a good work peace. In this regard, I would like to say that this is not only within the framework of the competition sphere or with regard to public service, but also in the case of workers working within the framework of professional staff, it is very important whether representation of interests can be enforced. Is there a way and an opportunity for trade unions and organisations to put existing problems on the table, I think it is a very important thing. It is important not only to the worker or to the person working within the framework of a professional relationship, but also to his employer, because a satisfied worker, a satisfied professional person, can obviously replicate the activity that is expected of him. [[12.00]] It can do it with an efficiency, degree of goodness, which clearly creates fewer fault surfaces or reflects errors. For this reason, I think it is important to mention that trade unions, from the point of view of the employer, should be present from the point of view of maintaining and strengthening peace of work. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] My last sentences, I will not repeat it, but I would just like to say that what has been said on the part of my fellow Member Konya, concerning the matters of local flopping, loyalty money or the things available, is not, in my view, an idea, but rather, on a sound basis, to which attention should be paid. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-44	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No application.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react. Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who spoke for their views and views in the debate. I am pleased that the atmosphere that we had developed during the five-party negotiations was also typical of the general debate here. I have found that it is also important for my fellow Members to adopt a law that meets the interests of both the country and its staff, the professional staff. Mr Péter Ágh spoke on behalf of the Fidesz Group and expressed his support for the proposal. Thank you very much for the support of my fellow Member. Mr Mátyás Firtl also supported the proposal from the KDNP. Both expressed their views that the professional personnel serving at the southern border - and all groups of personnel included, soldiers, police officers, all staff and government officials - were in place, and proved by this position at the southern border, that we can protect Hungary's borders, that the system is working, that the professionals are fulfilling their obligations, for which I would like to express my thanks on behalf of the government and on behalf of the government. I would also like to thank Mr Tamás Bellozó for his contribution. I would like to respond to some of your comments or questions, to what the Member has said. First of all, I would like to confirm here that there will be no resignation by e-mail, so this form of termination of service will not work for the future either. With regard to your criticism of electronic administration, I would like to say that we consider it important that electronic administration covers as much of the public administration as possible. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has also confirmed this expectation and its correctness. This was also the case in the five-party, and the Minister replied that it was necessary to move on with the age. Electronic administration becomes mandatory by electronic signature. Our aim is to be able to introduce this electronic administration throughout the administration. The amendment by Mr President, which criticised the triple unit of infrastructure, application and content providers, will be considered. Thank you very much for making this observation. What was said about the over-service criticism, you said, said Ádám Mirkóczki, Member Schiffer. I would like to say this: let us look at the facts and count together, ladies and gentlemen. There are currently 350 hours of overtime plus 60 hours of volunteering overwork for a total of 410 hours of overwork. The proposal we have just put forward includes the possibility of an 8-week over-service, with 48-hour weekly hours, which could mean 416 hours of overtime on an annual basis. This option may not be cashed or implemented. So it would mean 416 hours as proposed. The difference between 410 and 416 is 6 hours, so on an annual basis this can mean no more than 6 hours, 6 overtime hours. Overwork doesn't happen for free, it's gonna pay off, no matter what. As regards the practicality of the amendment and its schedule, I would like to say that we said it in the beginning, and that is what many of my fellow Members have said as a criticism that we have pushed or delayed the time to introduce a career model. We said at the beginning, in the general discussion of the bill, the first proposal, that we will carry out an average of 30 percent from 1 July 2015 and then 5-5 percent from 1 January 2016 and 50 percent from 1 January 2016 respectively. This has not changed, and you know it, and we can guarantee that this will be achieved. This is why we submitted this bill in order to define the conditions for the increase in 2016, and we needed the experience of the transition to the new system, as nearly 61 thousand professional transfers took place in July 2015. I would like to say that the vast majority of staff took note of the reclassification with satisfaction, that the proportion of service complaints did not reach half a percentage, my fellow Members, but these experiences were also necessary to ensure that the additional 5% increase required by 1 January 2016 could be properly implemented. So this will continue for 2017, as we said at the five-party meeting. Mr Felkai, State Secretary, has given a clear answer that we will also present it with regard to the increase in 2017. I believe that Parliament can do so for the sake of professional staff and the country. What has also been said, many of my fellow Members, András Schiffer, and others have mentioned that there is only a career for professional staff, or a salary increase for professional staff only. That's not true. I would like to say that there was also a 5% increase for civil servants of the bodies under the control of the Ministry of Interior from 1 July and a further 5% increase in salaries will be made in 2016. So this criticism doesn't hold up either. By the way, Mr András Schiffer asked me to apologize that the Member is not here to see what is the practice between EU countries. The answer to this is that the EU directive applies to us, the experience of EU countries can be different and different, but we fully comply with the EU directive. Mr Ádám Mirkóczki, whose comment I thank now, asked a question for the secret service workers. In the case of secret service workers, the criticism of overwork is specifically related to the part of the staff whose work does not result in excessive overtime, but, in the absence of rest, may endanger the lives of either themselves or others, if they ask for overtime to be redeemed in cash, thus unable to rest, so that they are unable to concentrate properly and thus endanger their own or others' lives. So that is the reason for this, in reply to what the Member said. I have tried to answer Mr András Schiffer's questions about the stock. I would also like to say here, you have repeatedly criticised and, to say the least, you have used a number of excessive terms regarding the shortage of police personnel. I would like to say that the police have the necessary numbers to carry out their duties, and we will provide adequate supplies for police personnel. The other: András Schiffer's criticism was also the provision of the budget. I would like to say that the 2016 budget, which we have already adopted, provides adequate coverage. As regards the financing of additional tasks relating to the protection of the southern border, the government also provides the resources for this. [[12.10]] He recently approved HUF 35 billion, which goes to HM and BM, which means financing additional tasks related to illegal migration. Several of my fellow Members have said or suggested that this migration situation is not over. Indeed, we also believe that this is a task that must be monitored constantly. The country, the borders of the country, have been protected, the decisions of the people have been made, the Hungarian reforms are working, but there is obviously a need to monitor developments in the border and border countries in the future, because it has also been said - whether I can quote the parliamentary debates of yesterday - that the replacement of illegal migration is estimated to be sufficient for at least ten years, so it is a permanent challenge, a permanent threat and a permanent problem for Europe. It's not like a Danube flood, a flood of 13, which we successfully solved in three weeks with national cooperation. This needs constant attention, energy, money and strength, and it seems that this triple protection that we have implemented at the southern border, the Hungarian-Serbian and the Hungarian-Croatian border, this legal protection, physical protection and living protection have worked, but I say that we also consider it necessary to pay constant attention to this, and this need to be given constant force and attention. I have already said to several Members that the development of salaries and the introduction of a career programme will not be delayed or delayed. I told you the beats. I have also said before, and I am telling you now that the other elements, i.e. the insurance element or housing support, will be developed in accordance with the original bill, and the benchmarking that this proposal will bring back will already give professional staff a significant increase in 16 years. Ladies and gentlemen, There is until Thursday the possibility of submitting amendments to the bill. I would ask my fellow Members and the factions, if they consider it important to submit further proposals for amendments, I would ask them to do so, a common interest - as I have said in my expos, I would like to point out that it is in the common interest - that we adopt the best possible law. The Ministry of Interior will consider these amendments. I ask you to support this proposal, because it is in the interests of the country and of the professional stock. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to wildlife protection, wildlife management and hunting until closure. The government referral is T/6955. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I welcome the representatives of the professional organizations for hunting and forestry, who have honoured us by monitoring our work. According to the tradition of Banská Štiavnica: good luck! First, I give the floor to Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-03-47	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The rural image of Hungary, the image of the Hungarian landscape, is indisputablely shaped by agriculture and nature conservation. At a certain time, the two large sectors represent the social, economic and cultural conditions of the Hungarian community in the landscape, which also contributes to the management of our protected values, the cultivation of land, livestock, grape and fruit production, forestry and sustainable wildlife management. Hungarian people work in the vertices of Hungarian agriculture and nature conservation, who contribute to the creation and maintenance of solid economic, cultural and nature conservation funds in Hungary through knowledge and expertise based on national traditions, with their two-hand work and expertise. Each area is integrated into the other and affects in a thousand ways the performance potential and hence the competitiveness of the co-operation areas. Therefore, the government's primary aim is not to look at and care for individual areas of expertise, but to treat them in a complex way in relation to others, taking into account social and professional expectations. The rethinking of the legal environment of wildlife management was carried out in this comprehensive approach by the Ministry of Agriculture, after years of professional demand that almost twenty years of legislation be governed by Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We're putting it on a hundredth-century basis. During the spring session of this House, opposition groups asked the government a number of questions as to when the bill would be drawn up, to which we replied at that time, that we needed a regulation that was sufficiently matured, giving real professional answers, developed by social need. The Government of Hungary has fulfilled its promises, so I can announce with broad professional support that the bill, as the honourable Members have read, has been completed. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that in the legislative processes of the period since the change of regime, there have been few pieces of legislation that have been discussed at a similar level in society. The stakeholder organisations concerned started collecting social needs related to the amendment of the law more than three years ago. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Hungarian National Chamber of Hunting and the Hungarian National Association of Hunting have delivered their amendments to the Ministry of Agriculture during the summer of last year. After the professional preparation of the portfolio, the concept of legislative amendment was developed, and it was sent to a wide-ranging social debate. We then drew up a draft of the standard text of the law and brought it to Parliament in a new social debate, adapted to social and professional needs. Dear Parliament, The bill, drawn up on the basis of what has been said, takes into account that wildlife is an irreplaceable and inseparable part of the biological community and that hunting in the framework of professional wildlife management is also an important part of habitat protection, in which the hunter is a key player. Hungary also has internationally outstanding values in terms of wildlife management and hunting. The Hungarian wildlife, which is a renewable natural resource, represents a high-quality genetic value. With these in mind, it was an important aspect in the drafting of the bill that, following the amendment, the Wildlife Management Act was primarily about the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable wildlife management, and also to ensure consistency in nature, agriculture and forestry. These objectives can be achieved by putting the wildlife sector structure on a new footing, which is ensured by the amendment of the legislation by developing wildlife management systems in the countryside. The introduction of wildlife management at regional level may seem to be a whole new element, but it is important to see that the amendment constitutes an ecological system in practice at the statutory level. Based on scientific research, we know that the majority of hunting animal species can find the living conditions necessary for their survival in relatively small areas, but, due to the diversity of the Hungarian landscape, they find diverse environmental conditions within these smaller areas and regions. Wilderness management in rural areas, adapted to ecological and habitat conditions, will therefore be introduced, allowing local specificities to be taken into account in the planning, implementation and control phase of wild game management, and will provide the opportunity to address local problems, such as stock control, wild game damage, in a size and level close to their place of origin, but at the same time exceeding those eligible for hunting. Taking into account social needs, tasks related to landscape units will be coordinated by a main hunting system integrated into the organisation system of the Ministry of Agriculture. Its main task will be to promote the quality of wildlife conservation for sustainable wildlife management, to provide professional advice to those entitled to hunting, to promote local solutions to wildlife damage and to facilitate hunting official work. [[12.20]] The bill does not want to transform the well-functioning and stability framework of the existing legislation, but it does involve a number of innovations in the light of the expectations of age, society and the profession. It is a new element, among other things, that hunting rights should be used in the future in the case of associated hunting rights through leases. By doing so, the proposal creates a clearer legal situation, eliminating legal anomalies around landowner communities hunting their own rights on the one hand, and building on the practice of hunting rights through a majority and well-functioning lease on the other hand. What is important is that landowners receive in advance an advance of 90% of the rent. During the last two operational planning cycles, it has been demonstrated that a hunting area of at least 3,000 hectares is needed for professional and financially stable game management. At the same time, professional planning and meaningful management require a longer operational planning period, so the bill sets the duration of the operational planning cycle for 20 years. In view of this, it also provides for the possibility of periodic review and, if necessary, sanctioning the professionalism of game management. In the spirit of predictability, the bill retains the decision-making competence of landowners in the design of hunting grounds and the selection of landlords, but it also intends to re-regulate the process of land design by requiring the hunting authority to engage more actively than previously. Instead of creating areas that generate complex and wide-ranging disputes, the amendment considers the ownership decision of ten years ago to be the starting point, on which a change can only be made with a specific ownership will. The bill clearly defines the conditions for the operation of the ownership community, as well as the rights and obligations of the joint shareholder, makes the system work accountable and transparent, thus eliminating the vulnerability of smaller landowners. Dear Parliament, The main aim of the bill is to regulate all aspects of wildlife management on a professional basis. Thus, with a significant administrative burden reduction, the three-level planning of wild game management will continue and there will be a special emphasis on safety rules by ensuring that only well-recognizable terrain formations can be used in the design of the hunting area under field conditions. There is also a strong role to be played by the number one depositaries of professionalism, the revision of the regulation on professional hunters, given the fact that the interest representatives and around 3,600 professional hunters working in the sector have a unified need for more than a decade to restore the prestige of the professional hunting field by prioritising the profession. In the light of the comments received and taking into account the technical aspects, the proposal contains an amendment to the application of the mandatory professional hunter per 4,000 ha. Clarification that professional hunters can only be employed on a full-day basis plays an outstanding role. The bill also sets out in detail the rights and obligations of professional hunters in their work. A further technical amendment is that, for the sake of quality free range game management, the rules of price-field wildlife management are re-regulated by the bill in a logical way in a chapter, addressing the shortcomings experienced over the past period. There has been a great emphasis on the marked separation of arctic wildlife from open-area farming. As a professional success affecting the sector, a social and professional consensus between the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy representing farmers and the Hungarian National Chamber of Hunters on the regulation of wildlife damage was established during the drafting of the bill. The two organisations jointly developed detailed rules for the management of wildlife damage, which were fully taken into account by the FM, its preparatory portfolio. The regulation is based on the principle that wild game stock is part of the natural community of life, so it cannot be considered as an abnormality in the field and forestry areas. Consequently, wild feeding is a natural component of farming, which the farmer is obliged to bear within a certain threshold. This is 10 per cent of the damage caused, but only in the event that the hunt is eligible for the management of the large game stock which has been carried out in the previous year. A further significant change in the legislation as regards the prevention of wild game damage is to change the unclear specifications provided as a professional framework in force so far, by more detailed rules which specify the obligations of both the hunter and the land user. Compliance or disregard of standards will create a clear situation in the event of wild game damage, thus reducing the number of disputes arising from it and thus reducing the number of litigation proceedings. There is also a need to regulate the details of the wildlife survey as well as the uniform rules of the game survey procedure at the level of the regulation. Putting the domestic trophy system on a new footing is an important step towards high-quality wild game management. This is determined by three elements: the transformation of territorial criticism, the development of national criticism, and the misalignment of official sanctions. It is clear from the structure of the new trophy system set out in the bill that it is not about collecting public funds, but about building a system that motivates the future, the only final and the third element of which is fines. Dear Parliament, In addition to the strictly professional efforts described so far, the bill seeks to create a farming environment in which traditional hunting methods, such as hunting with front-loading weapons and Hungarian greyhounds, are given special attention. For example, this latter measure plays an important role not only in the promotion of hunting traditions, but we also hope that it will make a significant contribution to the survival of the Hungarian greyhound as a national treasure, a highly geneticized breed of farmed Hungarian dogs. I consider it particularly important that the development of wildlife management can contribute to the strengthening of country image, given that our country is still a hunting power, a hunting paradise. From a tourist point of view, professional progress that can be achieved through the adoption of the bill is not negligible, given that the even higher level of wildlife management means more foreign and domestic hunting customers, which also appears in the form of measurable demand in less frequented regions of the country. In addition, the bill creates predictable relations for landowners with the orderly payment of rental fees, the operation of the ownership community and the orderly status of the joint shareholder. In addition, the new rules on the management of wildlife damage also serve the main interests of land users. The bureaucratic burden of sectoral actors is expected to be reduced, a number of planning and administrative burdens are removed, professionalism is strengthened and sustainable and meaningful farming is given priority. In view of all this, it can be said that, for reasons of wildlife-centric approach, this House can now start negotiating a bill that fully serves the development of rural Hungary, including the effective functioning of wildlife management and other related areas. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt our bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the protection of the game, game management and hunting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-48	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a maximum time frame of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As the Minister mentioned in his expo, the National Chamber of Agriculture initiated the amendment of the legislation in 2014 with the Defence Association and the Chamber of Hunters. Let me also welcome almost all the prominent representatives of the hunting profession in the box. In many ways, it was justified to amend the legislation, and I would not go through it, because this would perhaps, in itself, fill the 15 minutes that I have at my disposal. [[12.30]] I would rather try to highlight the elements that are important to us from the legislation, which I think can get a clearly forward-looking status. It is important to mention the appearance of the landscape view and the head hunter in the countryside. I think that we are creating a serious medium-level professional status that will substantially increase the appearance of the entire professionalism in the field, and it will provide the farmers with a crutch with which, if they live, I trust that they will be able to improve their own operation. We have to say that stability is an important factor in such a framework, because in a wild game management situation where a trophy wild beast, let's talk about, let's say, gim, becomes bullet-bearing at the age of 10-12 years or even older, a 10-year planning period brings about a rather absurd situation and basically does not create the possibility of farming. We therefore welcome the introduction of a 20-year operational planning cycle. We agree with the maintenance of the minimum area of 3000 hectares, because we believe that this is a size of land that is absolutely necessary for farming itself. From the farmer's side, this hat, provided I approach the area designation issue, which is important, it should be stated that it will continue to be based on property. So landowners have the opportunity to designate the area. In any case, it may be easier for the authority to help with this offer, and in areas where there is no dispute between land users, landowners or those who are eligible for hunting, the right to hunt can be established in a much simpler form than it was ten years ago. It is important to mention that the initiative, which is the right of landowners to set up a wildlife management unit with territorial effect, will fall from the previous one-third size to one-fifth, i.e. 20 percent. This certainly strengthens the position of landowners. Just as it strengthens the power of the landowner community that anyone can attend a community meeting without a minimum territorial limit. I didn't have the opportunity to do this before, but now I can represent myself at that community meeting with an acre. More than once, it has been a problem for the landowner community that the rights and obligations of the joint representative have not been properly regulated. Therefore, in many cases absurd situations have arisen. The legislation also makes an exact proposal for a solution. It does not, by the way, state that the joint representative may be recalled in a given situation. In any case, the position of landowners is strengthened by the fact that the rent must arrive on the landowners' account by 90 percent before the hunting season, i.e. before 1 March. If this does not happen, the authority shall remove the person entitled to hunt from the register. So this is a serious condition for those who are eligible for hunting. And speaking of deletion, in other cases, the authority may delete the right to be hunted from the register. In two cases: if you violate the law or - and here in case B it is important to make a responsible decision in the near future - if you do not comply with the terms of the lease. Therefore, it is clear that landowners will have to pay close attention to what this contract will contain, as will the farmers. The mandatory employment of professional hunters in old social discourses in hunters per 4,000 ha has begun. This may not be a blasphemy, because we all know what this is about. I think that this is an optimal area designation that can clearly address this situation. Finally, if we look at the big topics, I would like to briefly talk about the wildlife damage, which is the hornet's nest on this whole subject. We meet two extremes, one of which is to hit all the hunters, and the B-version to shut up all the peasants, because they get a thousand forints per hectare. I think these two extremes should be ignored when looking for a solution, since they lead nowhere. At the same time, it shows that this is a topic in which we will never achieve a complete consensus, since there are also extremist opinions that cannot be done by the expert seeking a solution or even by an enthusiastic layman. We must establish that the presence of the wild is not an unnatural thing, it is part of nature. It would be a fool's errand against that. The damage to the land user is 10 per cent, so there are changes compared to the previous one, because it was 5 per cent, but there have also been changes from the other side. After all, this could be up to 0 percent if, in the case of wild boar and gim, the right to hunt during the previous season does not meet the numbers required for the authority. According to the law now in force, this is exhausted by a game management fine, which is a more decisive guide and incentive for game farmers. At the same time, it must be noted that it is the best wildlife damage that does not occur, so we must place a strong emphasis on wildlife damage prevention. Here it is important that both the user of the earth and the wild farmer bear joint responsibility, since they can only effectively act together against wildlife damage. Obviously, however, it is not expected that there will be such a situation, a situation where there will be no wildlife damage, because there will always be wildlife damage. At the same time, if we are talking about wildlife damage, it is important that wildlife damage is properly established. Here, with regard to wildlife experts, important things need to be demanded. Thank you to the Chamber of Hunters for the opportunity to think together. We have spent a lot of time thinking about the professional requirements that we are going to impose on wildlife experts, who we hope will not appreciate, but in some way determine the wildlife damage. Let us not give the opportunity to engage in uncoordinated disputes that have just been applied to the person who has found the wild harm, because at the moment, there are several, if any, five times the difference between the same wild harm and two wild game adjusters. Obviously, this means that one of the people involved or gives absurdum both feel that he has been deceived by someone. Here we try to keep the emotional part away from it and lay the wild harm itself on a rational basis and determine it. Finally, on behalf of users, I would like to thank the Ministry for the constructive consultation that we have had, where we have been able to express our views on this. In this spirit, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the amendment tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-03-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to welcome the present representatives of the profession. LV 1996 on the protection of game, game management and hunting Act adopted by the Parliament nearly 20 years ago, exactly 19 years ago, and since then, a natural change has occurred both in terms of wildlife and in terms of hunting opportunities. It is therefore entirely legitimate to propose that certain provisions of the Wildlife Management Act be updated and amended or even supplemented. The proposal presented aims to address the almost unmanageable issues of the sector at the level of a hunter through the introduction of a wildlife management approach in rural areas adapted to natural and ecological conditions. We believe that it is questionable why the rapporteur considers that the operation of the wildlife management system in the countryside can only be achieved through State involvement. By integrating regional main hunters into the organizational system of the Ministry of Wildlife Management, there is a strong possibility that not only professional results will matter, but also political affiliation. In the spirit of predictability, the bill retains the decision-making competence of landowners in the design of hunting grounds and regulates the process of land design in such a way as to require active engagement by the hunting authority. Indeed, it is true that in disputes over recent years, it has also been proven that the operation of landowner-hunting communities as a legal community does not provide adequate professional basis and does not create a clean situation in a legal sense. [[12.40]] In view of this, the proposal introduces the compulsory lease of hunting rights and sets out the organisational forms of the range of tenants. The rights and obligations of the joint representative of the owner will be clarified - we believe that this could be a correct solution - and it will be stipulated that the landlord will have to pay 90 percent of the rental fee in advance for the given hunting year as an advance. The proposal re-defined the requirements for the use of professional hunters - and we already have a small problem with that - will require less of a professional hunter than is the case now, since the current rules require that three thousand ha of professional hunters be used, and this new proposal will require a professional hunter per 4,000 ha. In our view, it is questionable from a conservation point of view that in habitats where the professional protection of the wild and its habitat justifies this in particular, why the hunting authority does not require the use of a professional hunter with a higher education degree. The proposal aims to put the fundamental problem of the game management sector, the issue of wildlife damage, on a new basis. The most important element of this is that it is recorded that wildlife is our national value and that it is part of the natural communities - this is, in our view, a very good approach - so it cannot be considered, let us say, an abnormal or inappropriate appearance in agricultural and forestry areas. In this spirit, farmers will be forced to pay greater losses than the current one, as 5 percent of the damage that has been caused so far is now said by the bill - so far it was not considered to be wildlife damage, and the hunting company was only obliged to compensate for this damage - this proposal would raise this 5 percent to 10 percent. We think it is questionable whether small and family farmers can withstand such a double increase, which is practically a 100% increase in burden for them. According to the bill, farmers and hunters will have to work much better together in countering wild game damage, with clearer rules on what to do. Thus, for example, hunting companies will have to do a diversional feeding to prevent damage, while farmers will have to leave a five-metre band at the edge of the forest, where, if they are growing something, it will have to be low enough for the hunter to notice the wild beast heading from the forest to the land. According to the justification of the proposal, hunters will have a chance to shoot a wild boar, for example, before it reaches the cornfield. However, this is a flawed approach, according to many opinions, because there are opinions that this five-metre band and the separate crop which cannot be cultivated in it cannot be harvested, so that, despite good intentions, this cannot be a real solution. In addition, producers must ensure that the sign can be moved around their territory by means of a car, thus excluding a significant area from cultivation with the new five-metre band. The proposal, Mr Győrffy, mentioned that it is one of his best points, and we believe that it is one of the most professionally weak points of the section on the headhunters in the countryside. Knowing the work of the Orbán government so far, a system that has been integrated into the Ministry of Spatial Affairs raises political issues according to our approach, since these main hunters are appointed by the Minister while maintaining professional management. [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] In addition, it is due to the impact assessment published in the context of the social consultation of the proposal that the Ministry would plan to employ 55 of these land-use main hunters, including 55 SUVs, 55 binoculars, 55 handguns and the rest. In addition, we believe that it is also a technical problem that the proposal does not clearly and clearly show the relationship between the functions of the authorities and the powers of the main hunters. For example, the 6th edition. Paragraph 9 states that an appeal may be brought against a proposal amending the area, but it does not indicate where an appeal may be lodged. In addition, although the bill seeks to resolve a number of professional issues that we believe need to be resolved, we also consider that there are politically questionable intentions in the bill, for example, we believe that it is a highly politically defined government intention that favours the new landlords of the major contractor when the new proposal makes it a great deal easier for them to become the landlord of the right to hunt. We believe that the Mészáros Lőrincek and Tiborcek are now taking away not only the land from small farmers, but also the right to hunt. In the law in force, the condition is that a given actor produces at least 25% of the hunting area. However, according to the new proposal, it will be sufficient to cultivate at least 500 hectares of the area concerned. This, if translated or simplified, means, let's say, in a 10,000-acre hunting area, we now need to cultivate 2,500 hectares in order to become a tenant, but with this proposal it is enough for five-fold, as well. That is, the larger the hunting ground, the easier it will be to become your landlord, according to the logic of the new rule. This, however, is not for small money or, let's say, for the greater number of hunters, but for the large businessmen with fidesz. Finally, the 49th is quite interesting. §2 of the Act, according to which the Minister of Agriculture responsible for game management is authorised to regulate the provisions of the Wildlife Plan on protected areas in a regulation, in agreement with the Minister responsible for nature conservation. At present, the two ministers are one and the same person, Minister Sándor Fazekas. This is like referring to the five o'clock closing of Frigyes Karinthy, in which Karinthy wrote that I dreamt that I was two cats and played with each other. The proposal therefore contains, as I have said, many sensible and technically justified amendments, but we believe that there are politically sensitive or problematic solutions that do not help small-money hunters and family farmers, on the one hand, and that wish to build a new Fidesz vassal circle in the field of hunting. Due to all these professional and political problems, the MSZP parliamentary group will either not support or abstain from voting, depending on the reception of any proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-52	Thank you very much. Mr László Földi, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The protection of our common national assets is not only the duty of the country's elected leaders, but the responsibility of all Hungarians. This treasure, inherited from our ancestors and to be passed on to our successors, is the true gold reserve of Hungarians. In addition to so many other things, the wildlife of our forest is such a treasure to be preserved. You can't control, you can't own nature, but you can take care of its livestock. The expression of this is wildlife management, which, unlike the unfortunately common public opinion, does not mean the destruction of wild animals for pleasure, but rather a series of sensitive, responsible, thought-out activities whose ultimate purpose is to preserve the harmony and balance of man and nature. The bill before us calls the man who does it to his service. The most important objective of the bill before this House is the LV of the year on the conservation of wild game and game management. a comprehensive update of the law. Keeping the main lines of the original law, along with new ones, it seeks to reform the domestic rules of wildlife management. As has been said before, LV. The Parliament created the law in 96, almost twenty years ago, and during the time passed, Hungarian society has undergone very serious changes. This was complemented by serious economic and technical changes, which justified a comprehensive examination of the Wildlife Law. Some of its elements and provisions have proved outdated and need to be updated and supplemented. It is a special pleasure for me that the preparation of this law took place in the context of a very serious social consultation, since all the serious bodies involved in hunting and hunting were involved in the development of the draft law. The bill should answer the unmanageable questions of the sector at the level of a hunter. At the same time, however, it is important to establish a stable management framework, which can only be achieved through the introduction of a wildlife management approach in rural areas adapted to natural and ecological conditions. Accordingly, the introduction of wildlife management in rural areas is the most fundamental element of the overall change. [[12.50]] The introduction of ecologically manageable hunting areas, landscapes, the regional wild game management plan and the main hunting role of the countryside is intended to bring the game management activities of the hunting grounds into line, thus creating a more efficient and at the same time better management from an environmental point of view. As the Minister said in his expozee, the operation of the wildlife management system in the countryside can and should only be carried out through State involvement, resulting in the establishment of a system of specialist management integrated into the organisation system of the Ministry for Wildlife Management, and the establishment of a main hunting system in the countryside. A three-level system of game management planning remains. Also in the spirit of predictability, the bill retains the decision-making competence of landowners in the design of hunting grounds, but it also intends to re-regulate the process of land design in such a way as to require active engagement by the hunting authority. We consider it important to change the rules of the management of wildlife damage, that some part of the damage should be treated as the natural need of the wild, which is 10 percent of the damage that has occurred. Furthermore, the obligations of the holder of the hunting and the owner of the land in relation to wildlife damage and its predecessor, which are expected to reduce the number of disputes, have been specified. The bill lays down general and detailed rules on indoor wildlife in a new chapter, in a uniform logical structure in the law, contains clear and detailed rules for establishment and maintenance, while allowing more effective control by the hunting authority. It is important that the proposal seeks to prevent unjustified fence-building in hunting areas, which has a negative impact on wildlife management and puts pressure on unfenced areas. The proposal sets out in one chapter the legal consequences applicable to game and hunting infringements, updates the prohibited hunting tools and methods, and provides in detail for exceptional cases where certain otherwise prohibited hunting tools or methods may be used. The objective of the amendment is to simplify the administration of trophies and to improve the coordination of the trophy award system. Accordingly, the national trophy panel should be set up. The proposal places emphasis on the promotion of traditional hunting methods, including hunting, hunting with birds of prey, trapping, hunting with front-loading weapons and hunting with Hungarian greyhounds, among the hunting methods that can be used with hunting licences and hunting tickets. In order to preserve the coherence of the legal environment, the bill contains Article XXIV of 2004 on firearms and ammunition. It also contains amendments to the law. In addition to minor modifications, it allows the use of front-loading weapons for hunting purposes and extends the basic requirements and other basic rules for weapons skills. Dear House, Today's two slogans are tradition and sustainability, the future and the past, which is embodied in the bill under discussion, the richer tradition of hunting and hunting for centuries, and the harmony of man and wild law, if you will. We consider you worthy of acceptance and support, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Here comes the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I also welcome the representatives of the profession. It would be very good, however, if the representatives of the profession were to come in more often when discussing the laws of other areas, because I think that is a good feedback for us, as well as for Members, that they take the law seriously. If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't start with the usual turns of the previous speakers. We, too, consider this legislation and the whole wildlife management issue to be very important, both in terms of biodiversity and sustainable wildlife management, and we have heard a lot of beautiful thoughts, with which we fully agree on both the Minister's side and on the part of previous speakers. I wouldn't waste time repeating these things. Unfortunately, however, the Minister is no longer here, but I would certainly argue with him that he would benefit from this legislation as a single treatment or approach, because I think that would have been a good thing if, for example, we could look at the law on forest management or nature conservation or even the fishing law in a uniform way together with this law. I know that the Secretary of State will enter into a debate, and he thinks that is true, but believe me, there are contradictions between these laws on several points, which we will also try to remedy with amendments. Let me start with a very simple practical example. For example, if there is an operator of a fishing area, which is naturally located in a hunting area, what are the practical problems of a cormorance, say, in the case of a river section? After all, we know that the hunting area is even part of the unsaved side, and in practice this often causes tensions and misunderstandings. For example, if these two pieces of legislation had been looked at when this was created or looked at these practical errors, this could have been treated either in this legislation or in the fisheries amendment that was being discussed. But it's really just a little thing, and it doesn't affect our opinion of the whole law, by the way. Welcome to the role and appearance of the regional leader hunter. Of course, I understand opposition fears that may appear, but I find that a little excessive, and I trust that this will not go down to such a petty political level. It would be very good if this law were at least one of the few exceptions for which decisions were actually made not for a politicised area, but for the benefit of the workers in it. For now, in this regard, I am giving the government confidence in the head hunter in the countryside, and I hope he does not abuse it. We welcome the simplifications, say in the area of administration, that we support. The 20-year cycle period has also come down to me by stirring up serious debates, and very extreme proposals have come in, depending on who's interest is from 5 to 50 years. I also believe that from a wild management point of view, this is an acceptable cycle time. Wildlife damage is another very sensitive point, which has also been mentioned by many. I'm sure there won't be a solution, and there's no way, that's perfect for all parties, and you have to walk on a very sensitive, thin tape that you might have approached. Much will depend on the implementing regulation, of course, but it is really important to force those involved to cooperate and try to prevent or minimise the damage together. The size of the 3 000 hectares is also an optimal size, it was really ridiculous what sometimes worked in practice, when hunting companies could operate in small areas that were completely incomprehensible from the point of view of wildlife management. Hopefully, the closure of the institution of paper gamers can indeed be facilitated by this size of 4,000 hectares, and I hope that this will prove to be a practical way forward, but at the same time I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is obviously a step backwards in terms of job creation in rural areas. I understand that this does not have to be done with paper gamers, but I do not feel that the current legislation has put enough emphasis on, say, creating more jobs from this system. I also support the restoration of the minus-point system, as the profession has consistently done. We consider its current introduction to be acceptable in the current form, and we hope that the practice will show us where this may need to be fine-tuned even further towards tightening ups; I think this can be drawn after a year or two experience. I can say the same about the national trophy committee, and I would like to end the praise of the law here, because I think [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Suspicious, suspicious!]] The government representatives and the secretary of state will do the same for me. [[13.00]] So there are a number of points - just a few more important ones - that point forward and support it. One or two... [[Balázs Győrffy's intervention.]] No, no black soup, for now. I'd like to mention a few things. Not with regard to this legislation, but it would be good if Mr Secretary of State took note of it, and the next time the implementing regulation would be out of the way to include it. The end of specialized areas is not now, but three years from now. Here I will propose an amendment to bring these areas together in 20 years, to say that seventeen years will be the next cycle period, and then there will be no such anomaly that we will be able to encounter. I think it's an acceptable thing to do. However, I regret that the legislation - perhaps not in this framework law, but also in the implementing regulation - does not place enough emphasis on, for example, the radical decline in the small game, or, for example, enough emphasis on how the hunting companies could work in cooperation with nature protection, as this should obviously be done by the state. So I'm not saying that this should be passed on to the hunting companies. I can think of the wild cat or any other species, the preservation of which is unthinkable without cooperation with the hunting companies. It would be good if, together with the Nature Conservation Act, and once again, they were to establish a well-functioning system by state, because at present we do not see this in practice, there are ad hoc EU projects running, which often fail to deliver the expected results. In the context of amendments to our minor amendments, we will submit them by Thursday as necessary, and then, I hope, constructively, and indeed, what represents the original intention of the legislator will be accepted, and then perhaps there may be a consensus-based legislation, because, as I have heard, the Members before me have also voted in favour of them on the basis of the adoption of their amendments. I thought I would discover less criticism and give the government greater confidence in the implementation of this legislation, but I also argue similarly that we will have amendments and I hope that they will be adopted. I'm sorry we're just ahead of this law. I also have to correct Minister that this law was not the subject of the opposition's interest in the previous semester, but that since 2010, there has been virtually a constant debate in Parliament, because every six months the government side promised that the new hunting law would surely come next semester. And we understand, and we see, through our own discussions, how much interest it is necessary to combine, and how difficult it is to find the middle way that most of the parties involved might be able to meet, but I think that five years has been a little too long. But the point is that you are here, and we hope that the Government is truly constructive in our amendments. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, respectfully welcome the representatives of the profession and also express my joy at the fact that Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs has joined us; I think it will be easier this way than if Minister Fazekas had remained. And I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his positive reaction to preliminary discussions and for having been available on several occasions. So obviously we've had the opportunity to exchange ideas about this, which I thank you for. My first question, to which I would like the Secretary of State to respond, is this a simple question, and it is very important here that Jobbik's position is also: is that a two-thirds law or not? This is important because, as far as I can see, Article 38 (1) of the Fundamental Law says: "The state and local authorities own national property. The aim of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, to meet our common needs and to safeguard natural resources. The requirements for the preservation, protection and management of national assets are laid down in a fundamental law. The wild is clearly the property of the state, so obviously there is a question here of whether this is a two-thirds law, because if the wild state-owned legislation maintains the keeping of the wild state-owned in accordance with hunting traditions and hunting law, then this will obviously be an important question of how to deal with the fundamentality of this issue. Zoltán Magyar, my fellow Member, said that Parliament has been waiting for this legislation for five years. For my part, I was looking forward to it with professional interest, but now I feel that it would have been good if we had waited a little longer, because I would argue with what Minister said that was preceded by another major social debate. I do not question the social debate that has taken place in advance on the concept, but since the introduction of the norm, I think it is simply a short period of time before it can be examined in all respects. This is also important because the Minister has also said that the legislator has sought to ensure coherence in the field of nature protection. It is important that I make this point, because it was a practical solution 20 years ago or almost 20 years ago, if the joint negotiation and preparation of forest, nature conservation and hunting laws was carried out, because compromises could be made here, and harmonisation was greatly helped by the fact that these laws were presented and negotiated at the same time, because the representatives of the profession were able to establish negotiating foundations for professional interests. When I say that we could have waited a little longer, it would obviously be a question of what to expect with regard to the forest law and the nature conservation law, when it will be here, because it will be an important aspect when assessing this legislation, on what basis and how it will be represented either in the interests of sustainable wildlife management or in the interests of nature conservation. It is very, very important, and let me divide what I have to say on behalf of my party, the nature conservation professional opinion, and let me separate the game management from it, because I obviously agree with the rapporteur that the good thing is that, if they are fully consistent, however, we cannot ignore the fact that the text of the draft legislation may in some cases raise constitutional concerns, as it contains a step backwards, restricts the acquired professional right to protection by reducing the participation of the professional nature conservation authorities and granting this right only to the hunting authority. This is not an argument against the hunting authority, by no means, clearly an argument for sustainability, because if the previous legislation contained the possibility that the nature conservation administration could participate in these planning phases, which concern wildlife management, then in my opinion, the maintenance of them is a constitutional obligation for the legislator, as the first decision, which the government could have learned this spring, to consistently apply to it by the Constitutional Court, is also a constitutional obligation. In order to express my hope that, for once, we could have a professional dialogue in Parliament - as far as politicians can get - it would be good for them to accept comments of a kind that are not political. That is why I am starting with the positives, so that I myself acknowledge that it makes a positive change in many aspects of wildlife management. I myself have been familiar and experienced in practice with the problems of the land ownership system, and I am pleased that this situation is being clarified, because in recent years the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund has not been available to the hunting communities of landowner communities, since there have been no independent legal entities and they have not been able to apply. The fact that this is going to be settled, I think it will help a lot of farmers. Rehabilitation or modernisation of the trophy system, as you like, can also make a significant contribution to the improvement of wildlife management efforts and the activities of those eligible for hunting, and we therefore welcome this in this draft legislation and it is particularly good that this will appear. However, let me point out that while this system can help the activities of large game management with feedback, the inclusion of quality indicators for small game management - which, I assume, has been examined professionally and there are not many good solutions - is still waiting for you, and it would be good to think about it a little more. For my part, I can rejoice at the headhunter's institution in the countryside, because I think that if I don't have a political preception of what the governing party is going to do, then it can be a good institution and it can help the wildlife management. However, there are concerns about this because the legislation does not contain a number of detailed questions regarding the establishment of this post, and whether the sanctioning rights or the right to intervene should not be clarified by the legislation itself, then there is obviously a question of how it will act, what authority will it act, how it will act as an authority person against a hunter. So a number of questions remain unclear to me here, which I think it would be good if this legislation were to correct, despite the fact that I myself consider the creation of this to be positive. Obviously, the financing side should also be examined as to how those who are eligible for hunting should contribute to this, so that it can be created, and how only budgetary resources should be involved. [[13.10]] On the opinion of my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, in which he considered the 20-year hunting and game management planning process optimal, I also think that this is an optimal option. It is absolutely necessary that even if there is, I don't know, a habitat development in a large wild game management - but now for many habitat development, for example in the case of captive resettlement, the profession says that there was a preparation process of 8-10 years that preceded successful resettlement, based on experience abroad in Western Europe - this step is justified. The question is that, if we agree professionally that longer game management planning is beneficial, how should this be hand-in-hand with hunting rights, whether it should be linked to this, or if planning can be cross-border with the acquisition of hunting rights, or if the hunter is entitled to carry out the wild game management plan with non-positive indicators in a visible manner for 4 years, 5 years, 6 years, then what opportunities for sanctioning or withdrawal are included in the legislation so that we can achieve the most positive results for the conservation of the Hungarian wildlife stock. Obviously, we are also pleased with some expansion of hunting methods, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State will be a partner, so that we may correct some of the little things. It's very, very small things that can only be improved by small codifications. I would like you to express these opportunities in the debate, and I will not waste any time on them, because obviously in the general debate I do not want to go into such specific questions as whether it is justified in the case of front-loading weapons, let us say that it is possible or not to use shotguns in individual small game hunting, because I do not want to bring these little things into the general debate, or to bring them into the general debate, which, by the way, there are arguments to apply, for example, not only to the big game. Turning to the general part, it is very, very important to state how the hunting law is in line with the protection of the wild and the wildlife management itself. If we look around Europe in terms of various hunting laws - said the Secretary of State during the preliminary negotiations because I know that he is aware of this - then it is obvious that the legislator, the given Parliament, is adopting a hunting law with a priority of game protection, a game management priority or a purely hunting priority, and which one is a little ahead of the other two areas. When I read the hunting law, I had the impression that, I don't know if there is such a thing, the sports hunting lobby would have been a little bit, and the hunting activity and hunting would have been more marked in terms of recreational, relaxing, nature-related - [[Dr. Márton Bitay: What lobby? Sports hunter?]] sport hunter, yes - recreational activity, so that treats hunting as a gateway to nature for society, with which you can walk this path to connect with nature. For my part, and obviously there may be a political, ideological debate between us, the strengthening of wildlife management aspects would be strongly justified, all the more so, because, as I said, the state is an owner in this case, and a very strange owner, because an owner who doesn't know the size of his assets. In the case at hand, whether we look at the values of the trophy virtually, with a basis, or if we are talking about a stock of 100 billion in terms of an economic aspect, and, obviously, when Minister János Lázár talks about concerns in the public forestry sector, it is precisely the insurmountable nature of these, which can be abused somewhat, since this property is not recorded and is not valued at the moment, so it is very important how the State exercising ownership rights and the Parliament itself feel about it. And that's where it comes in, what I'm talking about, the game management aspect - and I can even say how the rural development aspect - works, because the first basic thing I would argue about is, for example, raising the professional hunting obligation of 3,000 hectares to 4 000 hectares. I'm sure you'll be able to tell me now that this means 800 people, 1,000 or 1200, so how many people are lost, or I think you'll argue that only paper hunters fall out, but the aim would be to increase the employment potential that wild game farming itself has. If the state has a fortune, then it can expect expertise in the management of wealth, and it can expect it to be carried out by highly qualified, highly qualified, good professionals. And here, for example, referring back to the amendment of the spring legislation when we reduced the participation of game farmers with higher education in game management - and I know that this should be taken literally in such a way that we have created the opportunity to reduce it, because the hunting authority could continue to prescribe it, but in practice it is not that realistic - this raises the question of how we could increase it. So obviously there is a difference between small wild areas, large wild areas, or mountain areas, and lowland areas, but if I had to draft legislation, I would rather try to increase the employment obligation to 2 000 hectares of wild game management where it is economically feasible and not how it can be reduced. I understand if the representatives of those entitled to the hunt may want this to be 5,000 hectares or 6 000 hectares, because it is in the interest of the hunter to reduce the personnel costs in order to optimise his income, and he says something that he may not need. However, just because Parliament has to consider other aspects when exercising ownership rights over state property, I think that Parliament can actually examine how much this contributes to the rural population conservation force, how skilled it is to be, who is involved in wildlife management, how highly competent it is to understand what it is doing and how many people it gives work to in rural areas. So my first major debate is that at least the status quo should be preserved in this respect, so that if we attach the minimum size of the wild game management units to at least 3,000 hectares, we should at least try to keep the mandatory game management staff if it is no longer intended for the government to increase these aspects. When I talked about how harmonisation will be achieved with the various legislations, and I opposed that it would have been good to wait a little bit, then obviously the problem of the small game arises in every case, which, I think, is more known to you or to the professionals than I can say, because at the moment when we are discussing the implementation of the common agricultural policy, and I said this as a concrete argument when the concept of a virtual ecological target area was introduced in the Hungarian aid scheme - I did not quite agree with that, so as to avoid greening for farmers - it was also an aspect. Also, from 7 November to 7 December, if I remember correctly, there are opportunities for applications for the agri-environmental management programme, where it is also suggested that harmonisation of this legislation, if paralleled with support and incentive programmes, would create opportunities for small game development, and the AKG would have created a multi-annual, good opportunity to do so, which is relevant in the debate on this legislation, because obviously, if the legislation were to oblige this government, it could create the possibilities of harmonisation in this regard. Obviously, the last aspect I have spoken about is the economic aspect of the farmer, and I obviously understand that if the farmer, the farmer who maintains the habitats, is the opposite in many respects to the farmer, but nevertheless, the management of state assets is one thing that we can reasonably expect. With all due respect to the Secretary of State and Mr President, I am unfortunately unable to finish in 15 minutes, so I would like to speak again about this, and I would like to thank you for the opportunity to comment because of the time limits.
u2015-11-03-58	Congressman, this is completely in line with the house rules, and we are pleased that you are speaking up and that you have just finished. [[Defiance.]] So now that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches, the first independent Member who has applied may speak. Congressman László Varju, please.
u2015-11-03-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am in a lucky position to see a great agreement between the factions on the need to change the conditions for wild game management and, in essence, to do so within these limits. I would like to congratulate you on this, but I would have preferred that if the same great agreement had been reached in the same way in the fight against child hunger, this would have been joyful. Of course, the governing parties could have made a great contribution to all of this. However, allow me, with a few thoughts, to express our opinion on this law, just because it seems that agreement has no doubt that this current domestic wildlife management structure, which is the way in which hunting companies manage game, has passed its time and must be changed. It can therefore be said that the submission of the law is justified, although, in our view, it cannot achieve the objective which has been set otherwise, I therefore dispute in many respects even the predictability that the Minister referred to here in the Expoze. [[13.20]] Allow me to mention two or three elements that, by definition - at least for me - do not represent that objective. The first of these concerns, in any event, the technical justification for the 20-year operational planning period. I believe that this is in line with the interests, but its professional support is not possible, and therefore we will certainly not be able to support this part and can not contribute to it. The design does not contain the framework for regional detachment. For this reason, it is difficult to understand where the head hunter in the countryside who will have the task of doing the work will be placed. The tasks related to the main hunter, which are listed here, have been mentioned, among other things, by the Minister, either in terms of professionalism or in terms of official work, these tasks will not be carried out in a person by the main hunter in a particularly increased area. It is therefore unacceptable to increase the area itself and thus reduce its number. Thirdly, let me mention what concerns the section on wildlife damage, because it would require a national network of experts from judicial experts in relation to its assessment, because this affects not only those who enjoy the benefits of hunting, but those who are involved in this, whether by accident or otherwise. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fields associated with the wild damage, and to the lands whose owners were not so pleased that the savages showed up there, and the resulting damage caused by these abuses or the processes of trying to buy up these small areas from those who are tired of the fact that there is no adequate opportunity to satisfy the wild damage or the damage resulting from it. In many counties, including Vas County, I have personally encountered this, where farmers draw attention to this, and all that is happening is unacceptable to them. That is why I would like to draw attention to the fact that this law does not comply with the solutions or expectations in this regard and that it will not be eligible in this way. To sum up, I must say that, according to the earlier concept of the proposed law, this has not yet been published in the discussions on collective exploitation of hunting rights. About representation: so this is an area that concerns who will represent those who are unable to participate in this work. Earlier this appeared as the task of the notary, and now this law creates a new organisation, which, by the way, has a lot of doubt as to whether this municipal agricultural committee will be able to carry out these tasks. So, to sum up, I have to say that it draws attention to a number of its elements here in the general debate, I must say that it is certainly not possible for it to meet the objective that you have set out in this form. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2015-11-03-60	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, has applied for a statement. Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-03-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, at the end of the day, when I have the opportunity, I would like to sum up a few thoughts on what has been said. I would just like to draw attention to one important thing, or two important things, before we run past it, and perhaps this could lead to a serious debate. About the Committee on Territorial Agricultural Economy or Chamber: there were substances in which they were included, but not in the proposed legislation. So I'm just saying so we don't go in the direction of talking about it. The legislator's intention is this. CHAPTER XXI It is a century, everyone who has a square metre of land compared to the previous land limits - because we had 10 hectares, 30 hectares, and how much he could even take part in the polls - this has been abolished. We said if you had a square foot, you could participate. Anyone who doesn't want to participate can take care of his representation, but who doesn't do either, and who doesn't take care of it, neither the notary nor the regional agricultural chamber. I'm just saying this because I don't want this misunderstanding to get deep in us. A little more comprehensive in relation to wildlife damage: regulation could be better, but the truth is, given the opportunities available to us, we couldn't think of anything better. And since we couldn't think of anything better, we thought that we should leave this to the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Hunters to sit down and discuss how to properly regulate wildlife damage, what is the measure that must be tolerated or not tolerated. What is very important: As the Ministry of Agriculture, every time we applied this law, the first aspect was what is in the interest of farmers, landowners or farmers in this form, especially in the case of wildlife damage. And when we cleared that up, we moved on. But a zeroth question has to be settled in everyone's mind, thanks to God, the wild is part of nature. We can't have a desire and a dream to have a nature where there's no wildlife damage, because where there's no wildlife damage, there's no wild game. So savagery is created either way. The question is, to what extent and how to compensate for these damages. And it is certainly a very big innovation in that, and also Mr Varju - I am sorry to point out this way - also mentioned at the end that it should be an evaluation of wildlife damage, not an estimate of wildlife damage. Let us not say how much damage has been caused here, and independent experts set multiple prices, but let there be a uniform, clear protocol that will tell us the amount of wild game damage that has been caused in a given corn table, and what is the forinted price. And what is the responsibility of the hunter is simply to say, if I may, I would not quote the complicated passages of the law text. If it fails to comply with the data set out in its plan, in particular with regard to wild boar and deer, it shall bear 100 per cent of the wild game damage. So we say that we place greater responsibility on the shoulders of those who are entitled to hunt. Be sure to take care to work as planned, and we will only share the game damage if you have done this basic task, dear hunters. Another thing that is very important is that obviously, after the wild is part of nature, after it moves in the given areas, farmers and landowners must also be allowed to do this hunting. Obviously, it is necessary to work together to ensure that this wildlife damage is at the lowest possible level. But don't ask, don't wish, I suggest, for the sake of all of us and our future, that there be no wildlife damage, because that would be very, very bad, as I said, then there is no wild one. And not as a closing point, but in the debate: Mr Sallai and several people have mentioned the situation of the small game stock, that this should be dealt with better, that there are problems, and that is not mature enough in the law. First of all, I do not want to apologize, but a lot of acute, everyday rules should not be laid down in a law. It is safe to settle this issue in regulations or lower-level legislation, even in ministerial instructions. But what is very important about the small wild game is why the small game has disappeared or why its number has fallen drastically. And here, it's not basically wild farming... or at least wild game management has no greater role to play in this than the change in farming cultures, the change in the land ownership structure. [[13.30]] So I see the great potential for development in the context of greening programmes, so that the habitat itself, which is important for the small game, will be able to increase the number of small game stocks in the future, dramatically. Obviously there are pest control tasks, there are a lot of wildlife management tasks, but until the habitat is settled at the small game, there is nothing to talk about, because the framework of the Wildlife Management Act is not suitable for providing adequate answers to this problem. In the wild game management industry, you may have seen the new hunting season decree, which contains a novelty in its nature. Although it requires that the assessment of the different estimation data should be carried out in the normal course of March, the small game must be redesigned during the period immediately prior to recovery - we are talking about the autumn period - this original plan must be re-assessed. You have to do a control, because the small wild game, as opposed to the great wildlife, is extremely exposed to the natural effects, whether it is drought or a watery period, both can do very bad things, or any other serious natural and climatic fluctuations can kill the particular breed that the hunter is entitled to use. So in these details lies the devil. I wanted to point out one more thing, which is no longer necessarily related to the debate, only with regard to the law, that, first of all, the gentlemen in the box are here because we invited them and they were involved throughout the work, whether the state forest farms or the hunting chamber or the Defence Association. Secondly, I would like to thank you for the work of those who took part in the year 96 law, because although we now say that it is outdated, the rest has passed, but it was a very good law. Time has passed, it's true, the world has changed, it has to change, but it was a good law. It is not a coincidence that we are not submitting a new law in a new number, but by exercising a gesture of appreciation for the work of those before us, we are trying to change the old law as much as possible and adapt it to the wishes of today. The fact that there is no very sharp debate between us, or at least for those of us familiar with the political arena, is almost incomprehensible that we are not on each other's backs, even though the debate has already been going on for almost 40 minutes, and the reason why we have also tried to keep this debate professional for our part, to hold five-party discussions, and to produce the concept already in March. There was a six-week social debate on the concept, which was concluded with a conference, and then the norm was formed. I would like to respond to this to Mr Sallai, but I will also briefly say that he may even be right that more time could have been left to the norm, but whatever it is, a consistent text, a consistent text based on the concept, or at least text boxes, text elements, is being discussed. Of course, the law on wildlife management had to be brought forward, and this also came up on the part of the Hungarian Member, that it was true, and I also think that the best thing was that the forest law, the wildlife management law and the nature protection law, as our predecessors did in 96, would have done, well in hand; but here there is a new element, namely, that there is now a situation where we will no longer be able to wait for the conservation law, and it is important that we answer the questions that arise in the new legislation for the new period. Of course, I will answer the questions that will arise later. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-03-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Before we go any further, I would like to welcome the students and teachers of the Kispest Deák Ferenc High School and the Ady Endre - Bay Zoltán High School in Budapest. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. In two minutes, Congressman Font Sándor, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare not change the fact that we dare to claim from the government that it is a pity to make a policy out of it, so I do not agree very much with Zsolt Legény's statement on this issue, which is a negative expression of Fidesz and which gives a favourable appearance of law change to the circle of friends. I think we should take this out. I would much rather agree with Sallai R. Benedict's comment in this regard. It's a serious professional law. I think that, first of all, we should thank the Secretary of State, who has agreed on this process several times and in front of a broad public opinion on hunters and hunting. I think the Ministry has spent a great deal of time on this because it is a sensitive area for this law to be properly presented. So in addition to this line of work, I would like to compliment you on the one hand and continue the debate on the other. In this professional area, let me mention, in my opinion, a reason for an amendment, and this is the question of a professional hunter employed for every 4,000 hectares that have begun. Sallai R. Benedek considers this to be little, and I think it's almost a lot, in those hunting companies with small game areas where there could be some sort of forced employment from this system. I will therefore propose an amendment to each completed 3,000 hectares. Of course, I realize that if this profession, professional policy, or even the experts in this area do not see it as appropriate, but the employment of a professional hunter costs at least HUF 3.5 million to the company, this could cause more serious problems than smaller companies, or a company with no large game of sufficient size, and it cannot generate significant revenue. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] For example, hunting foreigners. That's why I'd like to relax. Those who need it, they hire more professional hunters. It sees and shows the amount of stock to be employed. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2015-11-03-64	Yeah, it was just my cough that stopped me from interrupting. There is now a way for Congressman Zsolt Legény to respond in two minutes, I say, in two minutes.
u2015-11-03-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Font is absolutely right. As I said, the bill contains technical amendments. We, politically, have had some comments that we did not consider to be fortunate in this regard. I now see, in the course of this discussion with colleagues and State Secretary, that even the minimum area regulation of 500 hectares in the five-party negotiations has already been removed from the bill, so, obviously, for us then, let us say, our main concern for this bill has ceased. So, obviously, as I have said, we will have two amendments that we believe can make this bill even better. If the majority of governments will be able to accept it, then we may be able to support this bill in the end. Once again, as we have mentioned, our main political concern, as I mentioned, was already out of the bill, or at least it was not in the text at that time, because the five-party was still in it, so I think this problem has been solved. Thank you.
u2015-11-03-66	Thank you very much. I see the two-minute candidates from the Fidesz Group, but according to the House, only one member can speak in one round per faction, so they can take place later. However, as a pre-notified speaker, Mr Zsolt Egyed, the representative of Jobbik, is now taking the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speakers have already said a lot about the proposal. I can say in advance that the proposal is not considered to be wrong by the Jobbik fraction. Of course, we will submit our amendments to it. But I want you to allow me to highlight a few things. Those who hunt know very well that virtually everywhere between farmers and hunters there is a war going on, and this creates constant problems. I believe that this could be eliminated without any problems if the parties showed adequate tolerance for each other. What am I thinking here? The proposal included this 5-meter border line, which I consider a very good thing, by the way, because it is always in the interest of the farmer to try to make the hunting company pay twice or three times as much if there is a wildlife damage, and it is in the interest of the hunting company to keep it practically with the farmer. So that's what's causing this constant problem. [[13.40]] It should also be stated that it does not matter whether a hunting area may be bordered by roads or - it does not matter - a field of land, or whether a field is directly bordered by a forest. It's completely different. I can tell you from my experience, but I have also talked to a lot of farmers about how many farmers, in consultation with the hunters, have left these border lanes on their own years ago, because everyone knows very well that if there is, for example, a corn plate in a large wild area near the forest, and the wild boars move into it, they will not turn up, only in October, if there is no proper response. So I think between hunting companies and farmers, this could be a problem that can be solved. We hope that this bill will help. Another very important thing is that we consider this 20-year wild game management cycle to be absolutely appropriate, and I think it is a completely acceptable time interval. My fellow Members have also spoken before me about this, if we are talking about a bull, by the time it really has a trophy that is a woman or a life cycle that can be launched, it could be 10 to 12 years. So I certainly welcome this. We also welcome the creation of a territorial hunting post. Because it is a very big problem, where I live, in Northern Hungary, perhaps even more significant problem, which has not yet been dealt with in its place, this is a matter of poaching. I think that anyone who hunts in a certain area could tell us about this in abundance, and that could be a solution. However, what should be regulated, and what has not been mentioned in this bill, is the usual other problem. It's not the wild versus the farmer, it's the wild versus the passenger car or even the truck problem. Because mainly in large wild areas, I can say the same thing, for example, where I live, the problem is about 25-30 kilometers away, with the wild-danger sign laid out, and virtually anything can happen at any time. I think that this is the right solution, because when the problem happens, in a passenger car there are millions or even one million forints of damage. What's happening? The owner of the car better call the police, the policeman picks up the report, the car owner goes to the insurance company, the insurance company tells him to contact the competent hunting company in the area, resulting in years of litigation. I believe that this problem must be regulated, and I trust that the Secretary of State will take the appropriate steps to do so, in any way possible, because I believe that it is not permissible for people to wait for years to compensate for the damage they have suffered. That's all I wanted to say, and thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-03-68	Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP, as a representative requesting a normal word.
u2015-11-03-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I mentioned in my speech as the lead speaker, the bill contains a number of technically justified amendments. I would like to highlight these points now. The bill introduces a number of flexible rules on hunting practices and removes the administrative burden on many hunters and hunters. At the same time, it is very seriously tightening up both the game management and the game protection fine. For example, this means a five-to-ten-fold increase in several cases, for example, which can now be fined from 10 thousand to 100 thousand forints, where the new fine amount is between 50 thousand and 1 million. Or a particularly positive point in the proposal that will bring back the possibility of banning it in the event of a wild game that cannot be taken out during the hunt. In addition, the proposal introduces the concept of ownership community as a new term instead of the concept of the hunting community of former landowners. It will clarify the boundaries of the hunting area, clarify the rules on the harm to the wild. With regard to the more mentioned operational planning cycles, taking into account the operational planning cycle ending at the end of February 2017, it will create the necessary legal environment for landowners and ownership communities to develop new hunting grounds, to make decisions referred to in the ownership community and to elect a joint representative to represent them. The proposal clearly specifies that in the case of hunting rights associated with the new plant planning cycle starting on 1 March 2017, hunting rights can only be used by way of a lease. It clearly prohibits the transfer of the right of hunting to a sub-lease or sub-lease. It lays down general and detailed rules for indoor hunting in a new chapter in a uniform logical structure. In our view, these are all points which, I can put it very simply, can improve hunting, at least the experience of hunting. Therefore, as I have said, there are parts that are expressly justified by the law, which we welcome. As I said, the thing we considered to be the most problematic in politics is no longer in the law, so it is in order for us to do so. With regard to the limit to be raised from 3000 hectares to 4000 hectares, we think that the 3000 hectares border would be the right solution for the professional hunter, but we also mean the professional proposal to increase to 4000 hectares. What I'm really saying now is that our problem is, too, an increase from 5 percent to 10 percent of a certain animal tolerance obligation. We will probably propose an amendment to leave the old 5% limit. I also understand the substance or meaning of an increase to 10 percent, but we do think that it would be a cost that farmers would have to bear, in effect, double the cost. Therefore, we will propose that the 5% rule or limit should remain in place. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-70	Thank you, too. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, as a normal speaker, please.
u2015-11-03-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I was concerned that the protection of the wild game, the harmonisation of the interests of hunting and hunting, and, where possible, on the basis of equal criteria, and why it is important for this approach to be reflected in the legislation. So far, I have partially responded, partly talking about the aspects of hunting and wildlife management. However, I would definitely like to mention a wildlife-related provision, which has an actual political dimension. Don't be alarmed, Secretary of State, I'm not going to bring forward land privatization, it's something else entirely. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: I'm not that scared!]] The Prime Minister has now promised the expressway or motorways to every county seat. There is neither the concept of a wild passerby nor the concept of a wild passerby in the legislation of 96, although it is clear that as a result of the migration activities of wild species - internal migration, right - and the spread of species - the way in which the legislation seeks to maintain ecological corridors would be decisive for the stock. This is important because, while reading and searching on the Internet, I found a stack of case studies on some areas, such as lowland areas, such as the XVIII. Until the first century, the hunting of elk was quite ordinary, but now they belong to tiny wild game management regions. I don't know what role the M35 and M3 played in the floodplain forests in Central Tisza Valley. Therefore, it would obviously be justified if we deal more effectively with the protection of the wild game, to incorporate these aspects into this legislation in the next development of infrastructure before the government, in order to oblige the government to develop wildlife protection aspects with regard to government regulations. So this could be a thoughtful proposal that might also be worth a little more going around and thinking about. While I am here to protect something, I remind you that several times my fellow Members have mentioned the amount of these fences in the West-Transdanubian. At previous meetings, the Secretary of State said enormous quantities of kilometers. [[13.50]] I wonder if these uninteresting areas are wild management - I can almost say that, because if they are surrounded by a wildlife fence, if we are talking about a large wild area, there is nothing other than a pheasant - how will they participate in the hunting grounds. At the same time, I am surprised that the representation of small owners at the landowners' meetings, in which they decide on the right to hunt, does not appear in practice, because, if I understand the words of the former, neither the notary nor the Chamber of Agriculture will represent the non-existent landowners. Then I'm very afraid that there might be a lot of great estate influence in the implementation of this. That only occurred to me in connection with his earlier comment. Let me also respond to my fellow Member, Mr Font, who has just tabled an amendment. If we compare this to the current codified text, it says that it considers one to be justified at 5999 ha. I acknowledge that it may be in the interest of a number of those who are eligible for wild game management to reduce employment, but Parliament should also pursue its interests in maintaining Community property rights in relation to the state, so I would probably go in the opposite direction. It is good that this proposal has been made here by Mr Font because he has once again given me an argument to argue for a higher level of professional participation. If we look at how many professional hunters there are and how many of them have higher education, then there can be another argument that in those small wild game areas where they cannot support a professional hunter, the need for professional staff may be strong. In the spring we went in the direction that the hunting authority does not have to prescribe the larger hunting grounds, and now it may be justified to rethink it. Returning to the task and competence of the head hunter in the countryside, I said that in some things I did not see the possibilities of task and competence clarified. If I understand the last version of the codified text correctly, then every seven years the hunting plans can be reviewed, in which regional unit main hunters will have a role to play, and in the participation of wild game management plans they can play a strong role. And I'd argue again about the staff. I'm a little concerned that if 50-55 head-hunters are created, there will be an opportunity to be eligible for hunting - I don't know how much of this will be per region unit, 30-40, I don't know how much the government has calculated - in any case, they will be involved in their game management plan. I am very concerned that there will be any capacity for this. I do not want to predict that it will fail, because it may succeed, but that it will not contribute to the spread of such copy/paste-based wild game management plans if we do tasks for such a person whose implementation may be subject to physical limitations. If I may, as a last thought, finishing the round for the lead speakers now, I would like to return to that view and refer back to the serious presence of wildlife protection and to the wildlife management and landscape management aspects, while respecting the well-organised reputation of the hunt. I say that strengthening this approach will be very, very useful, and I am very pleased that, if the agricultural support system is already part of a wallet, we can enforce it at some level. At the end of all this, I can say that a lot of people think that if a party or a faction is present in a vote, they may not have an opinion or can not judge the question. However, in many cases, as is the case now, the dilemma is difficult because, as I have already said, we can agree with a lot of efforts, but there are some efforts that are more difficult to deal with. I'll go back to what I started: these are restrictions that violate the interests of nature conservation, at least that's how I judge it. Now there's a government where the Minister of Nature is the same as the Minister of Wildlife, but I didn't give up hope of having a normal government for the country. As a result, it would be good if we did not tailor the legislation to the current context, but created the possibility for the interest system of nature conservation to continue to be emphasised in the legislation. I hope that we can still exchange ideas on these issues during the detailed debates, and if there was less time for the codified text, social consultation now, then perhaps there will be a time for detailed debates not to bring this back to the vote immediately, and at least the two committees will address it. And if they are honoured by experts from the Department of the Ministry and by the Secretary of State, then I hope that if we modify some of those refinements, then there may be a piece of legislation that is eligible or acceptable. I hope that there will be a political will to achieve this consistency and that there will be a government openness to achieve this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-03-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to say if you would like to react? [[Márton Bitay Örs: Yes.]] In that case, Mr. Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2015-11-03-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Now, however, I would like to go very quickly through some of the points that have been made. Congressman Zsolt Legány is not in the room, but I would like to address what you have said. We talked about how it would be good to keep the debate professional, but it just fell out of the political line of work that you obviously need to carry out. In no way will this benefit any major farmers. Every element of the law is about how anyone who uses land or owns land in a given area has no limitations, how to influence the development of hunting grounds as easily as possible, how to express a strong opinion at any meeting. So it doesn't help any major landowner or landowner in this way. It's just that we've removed the limits that ruled out the smallest ones. It is precisely that the arbitrary solutions that were previously in place, that there is this common landowner who has been elected by the majority, typically the larger farmers had a greater opportunity to influence common representatives of landowners - that is exactly what we would like to take back. We're just saying that the landowners' joint representative should be accountable, that he should be responsible for the money he has. What we are saying is that we should not favour those who try to come together with all kinds of cougars or half-sum solutions, but that there should be an exact legal framework for how and how to use the right to hunt. However, I thank all opposition representatives very much for recognising our work together, because it was not the Ministry's work, there were a lot of people involved in this work, and the Ministry was, of course, at the forefront of the tasks. The official duties of the main hunter, said the speaker, Mr Sallai and Mr Zsolt Legény. I suppose we all need to mature the exact term of this technique, but we don't have any official duties. They don't have any authority. I would like to stress that we should not bring it here, because in the end we would confuse someone or the kind viewers who follow the debate over the Internet, or later those interested in hunting: there is no official task for the head hunter in the countryside. With regard to the 4 000 hectares started, the nature conservation criteria and whether or not it is necessary to have a higher education, this was carried out a few times during the spring debate. Just for the record, I say that it should be clear and clear: there was a rule that basically linked higher education or not higher education to the size of property or hunting ground. That's the 10,000 acres. And we say that it is not the size of the hunting grounds, but the professional work done there. It doesn't matter how many acres it is, it could be 3,000 acres, but let's not tie it to that. Our proposal is that we do not want to impose higher education at the professional hunting staff. In order to maintain or create jobs in rural areas, I do not see the legal justification for imposing, in accordance with hectares or other rules, what degree of education it should be. [[14.00]] Most of them have secondary education and are excellent at their job. It's all right. However, it is clear that the head hunter in the countryside can be expected to have a higher education degree. If you work together 20-30-40, you are eligible for hunting in the countryside, you must have a professional past and you must have a higher education degree that makes you qualified to perform these tasks. And the 500-acre rule we discussed was that it was an earlier draft, which is no longer in the current one. Some important questions have also been raised on behalf of MEP Zoltán Magyar. In this connection, I would like to say that the areas were established in the previous operational planning cycle on the basis of the decisions of landowners. We claim that, if we do not have to, we should not disturb this; that we should be in order to adjust it in line with the geography figures, taking into account the physical boundaries we see, if necessary, but to adjust it to the current hunting grounds. That's all the authorities do. Everything else depends on landowners at different levels and degrees and in a timeline, whether in the minority, if I may say so, who would like to be divorced, or in relation to the majority. The authorities, just for the record, give you a basis, a pattern, you don't want to interfere. The landowner has to decide what he wants to do in this area and how he wants to develop the area. I've already responded to the small game questions, and I wouldn't comment on that. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] On the one hand, I would not bring the law on national property here, because, at the legal level, it is precisely regulated which laws are two-thirds, there is no law on hunting and wildlife management. But let me use the phrase that we are trying to reach consensus in this case anyway, so in this way it is not impossible that this actually does not have any special significance. The forest law, nature conservation law would have been good if it had been hand-in-hand, and we talked about it as well. In his second speech, however, he mentioned that it was not certain that it would be enough for him to plan 20-30 hunting in the countryside, at least as he said. First of all, I'd like to make this right: he doesn't have to plan it. You have to plan to be eligible to hunt. The regional leader hunter merely joins this planning process together. He is the only person who will notice that, within the same region, hunting companies, if any, neighbouring hunting companies, are planning to exploit or exploit more than one species of the same species. Why did we put the head hunter in the countryside? This is very important because we haven't talked about this enough. The lead hunter is one thing to have someone there. But here, wildlife management in the countryside plays a role. It has a role to play in thinking in landscape units. How are we supposed to realize that a deer in one night doesn't just do 3,000 acres, it does multiples. And, uh, we use that word, it typically moves within a landscape, by the way, taking into account its genetic capabilities. So that's where game management should be interpreted. And it doesn't matter what that 3,000-acre farmer wants, in the landscape unit, it has to form a coherent unity. But if we say there is one, then we need someone to monitor it. Because the authorities didn't seem to notice today that, say, in one of Csongrád County's hunting grounds, 5,000 hares are being used and 500 hares are being used next door. And it didn't bother anyone why it was like that. The authorities have numbers, he can't see any further, that's not what he's supposed to do. That's why I say very strongly, the head hunter in the countryside doesn't perform official duties, but professional tasks. Who and how do you designate them, what political aspects will they be or may be? There will be no political considerations. It is not the political aspects that are important, but the important thing is to be a competent, honest Hungarian hunter, who has a higher education degree, who knows about that region and knows what wildlife management is. It's professional, and it's capable of putting it together. It has the ability to have a body for professional hunters, the possibility of even talking about a game management problem, because right now it doesn't have it. About the sports-hunting lobby. I don't feel sport-hunting-friendly, or I couldn't segment what kind of hunter this law favors. If I may, I would say that it is simply a law that favors honest hunters who have never lied before and do not want to lie. I think it's a very good law for them. Anyone who hasn't done this before will have to adapt themselves to the new rules a little bit. At the stock register, I find what Congressman Sallai has said to be incomprehensible, including in relation to the stock of trophies. It is terribly difficult to say this, because, in the case of a queen, in her second or third year, she may seem to be capable, but there may still be such miracles that she will not be. So I suspect, and I suspect, that Member - and, by the way, rightly - would first stand up to what we spend hundreds of millions, God forbid, billions, to measure the market value of wildlife. It is very good that this does not work, and I do not think that this issue can be properly interpreted biologically. We were talking about rural employment, and this is obviously a question. The 3000 started, 3000 completed, 4000 started, 4000 completed to be the size limit. I think what we've hit is effective in evading the so-called paper gamers' facility, while at the same time supporting professional work. If there's a better way, I'm not gonna keep my head down, so be it, let's find a better way to do this. I would also like to respond to the question of ecological corridors. That's what I think rural wildlife is all about. It's just the landscape, and it doesn't necessarily have to be an ecological corridor anymore, because it's a coherent unit anyway. With regard to wildlife fences, the internal migration of the wildlings, if I have listened well to the statement of the Member; it is a little overhearing, but we understand. There is indeed a serious problem with fences, but this is also a agricultural problem, its roots can be interpreted from an agricultural point of view, and there will be problems with wildlife farming later. I'd like to give you a number. Somogy County has 2584 kilometers of wildlife fences per moment. This will be worth considering at some point, how good this is, how beneficial it is for wildlife management. Congressman Varju mentioned it, although he's not here anymore. [[László Varju is signaling from the box that he is present.]] The 20-year cycle that it's unprofessional, doesn't think it's right. I respect his opinion, but I have never heard an opinion, whether from a wild management point of view or from an agricultural management point of view, which would have said - but here is Congressman Varju, only in the background - that he does not agree with this. I have to say, it is also important for small game management, and in trophy-big game management there are inexorable aspects, since many of our species reach the age of bullet maturity around ten years. So it wouldn't even be there for an honest hunt for trophy farming to be able to exploit that game if it was closed for ten years. The result of this is, for example, an exponential increase in the number of large wild game stocks, even if not so exponentially, but a significant reduction in the trophy quality of the trophy game. That's why, because it's being used prematurely, because no one wants to wait for it to be a good bull, because the planning cycle is ending, it's being used first. I wanted to mention one more thing, and that is the issue of the amendments that the opposition has mentioned. We are open to all amendments. There are no professional trenches we wouldn't be willing to cross. If there is a regulatory area that you feel needs to be amended, I would like to ask you with all due respect to this, whether we talk about it, look at it and accept these amendments. I do not think it logical that the Minister who is entitled to nature conservation and wildlife management is now one and the same, and that is obviously not going to be a problem, otherwise yes. 'Cause believe it or not, Congressman, we're planning a long-term deal with this law. And what the government structure is like right now is one thing. But what it's gonna be like next year or five years from now, no one's gonna see it coming. And this law is my intention, or I would be very happy if, in twenty years' time, I could sit in the back of the benches and watch the development of the new wildlife law, and at least until then this law would last. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[14.10]]
u2015-11-03-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. I salute my fellow Members and our guests. The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by our fellow Member Lajos Szűcs Fideszes T/6989. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2015-11-03-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We can talk about one strange thing, because here the hunters are leaving the meeting room - there is a hunter and more perhaps - but if I can say a few words about the preparation of the law, it is memorable that, for example, the law on fishing and fisheries management was made from 2002 and was finally adopted in 2013. So here I can say to Congressman Sallai that there are laws that have gone beyond what you consider to be a short period, such as the Fish Management Act, but they are still a very important part of this society. I would like to say a few sentences about the fact that nearly 350 thousand of our fellow fishermen are watching these events, and some of our fishing guests will be arriving at the box in a few moments, I think, so here we will be, as they used to say in the old song A Szelistye Women: we are the women of Selistya, three of us have come, but there are at least 300 more. They'll be here soon. Meanwhile, I called a fishing world champion, a two-time fishing world champion, Tamás Walter, but Tom informed me, and he apologized for not being able to be here because his wife was a ten-day young mother, and his second daughter was born. His wife, Barna Diana, is last year's Hungarian fishing champion. So we're talking about a very significant organization, a 350,000-man fishing organisation. This legislative amendment proposal, which I actually submitted last week, has a very important message that fishermen would like to take their own fate into their own hands. When we created 2013 after the 1997 Law, the fifth phase of it already provided that the right to manage natural waters would have to be given primarily for fishing purposes. It has also been decided, and the first results already exist that commercial fishing in natural waters has been abolished by the State. This is why it is very important that this law ensures the possibility of placing the waters in fisheries management after landing fishing licences. That's what this bill is all about, nothing more. And, of course, if this authority is granted by Parliament, then a very serious work will begin. At the committee meeting, the Secretary of State said that this legislative amendment is a two-thirds part because it provides for the transfer of the right to fish in the public domain. I hope that everyone understands that the introduction of fishing organisations into their own management can satisfy a very serious social interest and social need. If fishing organisations are given this authorisation, we would like to conclude a contract with the State that includes responsibility for Mohose and anglers in all matters relating to fish management and fishing, and that the Ministry and the State Administration are given all control and all authority to assist in the development of conditions. We have asked for it, and this law is part of this line, so that we can have a single treatment, for example, to conduct and manage fishing tests, issue permits, manage catch record books and issue catch results. In the meantime, my fellow fishermen arrived here. I would like to welcome István Dérer, president of the Maconka water reservoir and fishing association and Vice-President of Mohos; professional writer Károly Bokor, who is president of the South Baranya fishing association and vice-president of Mohos and the Ministry. So we have our professional background. What I would like to say about the law is that it is relatively short, but then there will be a lot of work to be done, as this law affects about 80% of natural waters, does not deal with water areas that are majority-owned or privately owned. He doesn't care about the backwaters and small water areas that have separate fishing associations. In this respect, the tender, which was named in the law, will continue as an option. And I think that we can deal with the same problems as the current bill can help the fishing organisations. The adoption of the proposal empowers the Ministry to regulate the conditions for the transfer of the right to fish in a regulation and to monitor all details relevant to the case in this Regulation. There was an important question at the committee meeting about what would happen to natural water fishing. I would like to inform this House that commercial fishing in natural waters has ceased. I believe that there will be a need for stock management, research or traditional fishing in these waters. So the voices that ask what will happen to this hundreds of years of trade, what will happen to the people who are doing this traditional Hungarian trade, we can also provide answers, because those fish-producing enterprises can still be used, there is a need for these fishermen, but in natural waters, such demonstration traditional and stock-regulating fishing will also be necessary. After the law, of course, we will have a lot of work to do, because once again there are questions about how healthy fish from natural waters will come to the tables, how fish from natural waters come to the table of restaurants. We would also like to propose this, because at the moment, the possibility of the guest table is given to fishermen, and to the csárdas in a similar way, as provided for in the Wildlife Management Act, associations have the opportunity to sell wild game meat, in which case we would also like to provide an opportunity to sell fish from such stock regulation. To this end, we must also say that very serious animal and food health conditions must be met, fish being even more dangerous in this respect. These conditions can be established, as in wildlife management law, through the transfer of the right to fish management. [[14.20]] It is important to mention that with this opportunity, which the law provides for us, we would also like to take advantage of a very serious sport fishing opportunity, because at the moment one of the most dynamically developing tourism sectors in the world is a branch of fishing, and I think Hungary should not miss out on it either. We would, of course, like to have local governments and tourism organisations among our helpers. I believe that, as a result of this proposal, this House will still have legislative and regulatory tasks. In any case, it is also certain that the adoption of this proposal will provide an opportunity to pass on fishing rights. That is why I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the two-thirds legislative amendment proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay.
u2015-11-03-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I also warmly welcome the leaders of the fishing organisations. There are only a few things that I would like to confirm - while the government supports the motion for a representative - that, on the one hand, we have already had a debate about whether or not to be a large-scale fishery in natural waters. Now the only question is whether we will tune all the legislation, all the pieces of legislation in the direction that the fishermen will finally get the opportunities in the natural waters. I think that this proposal is basically about how these rights are granted, how they can be obtained. Given that the exploitation contracts for water areas typically expire on 31 December of this year, it is obviously an urgent question of how we can resolve the exploitation of these areas. I think that, by the way, in the context of a normal state operation, there is nothing smarter to do than to say that I am empowered by a national representative body, so to speak, to pass on this property right to him under some procedure, so that those 350-360 thousand fishermen in these areas can manage and create their relaxation. But it is very important that this is not such a friendly gesture towards the fishing community, but we have talked about this a hundred times, a thousand times, and we have counted what fishing has brought in natural waters from a national point of view, what fishing has brought in natural waters from an ecological point of view, what fishing has brought in natural waters from social policy perspectives, and what it will bring about, by the way, fishing and promoting the development of fishing tourism. We have been through this debate many times. Any element of which I play chess, always comes out from an ecological, social or economic perspective, that in natural waters, fishing and fishing tourism developments always bring more profit, so to speak, not necessarily financial gain. In this line of thought, in which we started with the adopted law of 2013 - by the way, two-thirds of the law, by the way, it was adopted with opposition support - we are moving in this direction, and we are strengthening this direction. I think it's out of the question. The proposal is professionally good and has an impact on the desired direction. I think that this goal will be achieved, and fishermen will play the main role in natural waters, so we can support this proposal on behalf of the government and ask the parliamentary parties, the opposition parties, to support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-03-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-03-79	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I'll start with a personal comment. He who grew up on the waterfront since he was a little kid, lived and lived, I could say to this day, with the idea of fishing, at some point we started with the pin hook, with the hook formed from the pin, and I never abused it, and I never said it in public, but I have to say that my passion has persisted. Although, in the last two years, I've been a big patron of fishing and fishing, I've only had one chance to fish, but I have a valid permit, fishing ticket, an empty catch log. I hope that I will live to see that, perhaps not this year, but in other future periods, I will be able to engage in successful fishing. I believe that the essence of my comment today is to put forward to you the ideas on the legislative amendment that has been drafted. Dear Parliament, The amendment updates and complements the rules on the exploitation of the State's right to fish management. The need for changes is justified by the fact that most of the contracts for the lease of the State's fish management rights in registered fish management water areas will soon expire. In the coming period, about a thousand contracts, the relationship between fishing and commercial fishing was different when they were concluded 15 years ago. Continuous and undisturbed fishing activities in water areas may be continued if the legislative background allows for a smooth replacement of the many recovery contracts which have ceased at the same time. In water areas declared and registered for special purpose in the public interest, the use of property management can be made, as before. In such cases, a trustee shall only be the budgetary body or a 100% State-owned entity which uses the area to carry out its basic task. In the case of other registered areas, the exploitation may be carried out by way of lease. The lease may be continued or conducted by public tender or designation. The Minister responsible for fisheries management may use a designation for the benefit of an organisation which is a court-registered organisation representing the national interest representatives of fisheries associations. The notified body may also, as a landlord, grant the right to fish management to a member organisation or member organisation of its member organisation a sub-benefit allowance. The detailed terms of the lease with the designation will be developed at the level of a regulation. Both natural and legal persons may apply for the lease of the right to fish used by tendering. Since the cessation of commercial fishing in state-owned water areas, there has been no serious threat to the stability of fish stocks in domestic waters. The cessation of fishing activities has therefore proved to be a good decision in the future. The elimination of adverse side effects from fishing, stability of fish stocks, the strengthening of the domestic fishing community and international examples all encourage the development of fish farming based on fishing and, as has already been said, strengthening the development of fishing tourism in our state-owned waters. Leasing leases provide an opportunity to take a significant step forward in order to create a new approach to fish management, basically supporting fishing and tourism based on it. At this point, the interests of the legislative intent and the fishing society meet. It is also possible for new contracts to take into account the true opinion of the fishing community. Associations that have worked well will be helped to continue to operate, as opposed to fishing organisations that benefit from fishing. [[14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this amendment will solve this problem for a long time - if I may put it this way - and in areas like my own constituency, on the right and left side of the Tisza, I can say to the settlements that they can geographically place it: Mindszent, Szentes, Csongrád, Chantelek and perhaps even all the way down to Baks, where there are very serious traditions of fishing, farm, lake economy and, of course, fishing. I'm afraid to tell you about other fishing activities here, but it has some serious traditions, too, which we older people think we remember very well how these canals and other water surfaces have been caught fishing or fishing, but fortunately, this is already in considerable decline. So I come from a region where these traditions live, and I would like to highlight a settlement that, I think, is very important for us and for the maintenance of traditions. And this settlement is Csongrád, where, to this day, as a skanzen, there are fishing houses that can present to posterity, to future generations the tradition, the profession that we call fishing. I would like to draw attention, as my colleague Lajos Szűcs pointed out, to the fact that it is true that this river fishing has ceased, but these people, who have worked here, still have a great deal of professional knowledge, who can do this profession in time, and I believe that these people need to be employed later and to exploit their professional skills. At the same time, when we return to the fishing houses, it is very important to present in these houses a culture typical of Hungary's history and region, which we now call fishing and fishing. I would ask my fellow Members to support this amendment because, to a large extent, I believe that we can put the debate between the different segments of the fishing community on a resting point that we can finally settle out of common will. Thank you for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-80	Thank you, Congressman Wolf. I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-03-81	Thank you very much. Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the MSZP fraction, to welcome the professionals who are seated in the box. Let me express our joy that you are here to listen to this debate. The purpose of the bill's justification is, however, to allow exploitation by appointment in the future, in addition to the use of property management contracts or lease contracts, so that the Hungarian fishing community can participate in the exploitation of areas suitable for fisheries management as widely as possible in a transparent manner. It is a fact that the amendment would make the stated target available, and the involvement of the organisation representing the national interest representatives of the fishing associations, currently registered in court, of 26 member associations, and more than 1000 associations in the member associations, as my fellow Member said, would be achieved by involving 350 thousand members in the transparent exploitation of the right to fish management as widely as possible. In addition, the proposal provides for the possibility that, soon after the expiry of leases and leases, the right to fish in water areas will not become unclaimed. If this were to be done honestly and fairly, this proposal would even be eligible. This is always the question of whether honesty and fairness will exist on this issue, because we think that this is the only way to do it. This proposal, however, has its charm that it will come before us today as a motion from its own representatives, and so I believe that the ministries have also received a number of requests regarding this problem, that the lease contracts will expire at the moment, and if we do not bring this law to us so quickly, then these areas will probably remain unclaimed. If, by the way, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP government had not been so busy with the ground dog, then the government would probably have been able to bring in this very, very important amendment to the Fish Management and Conservation Act in time, but unfortunately, it seems that this was the only way to resolve the fact that it was submitted as an independent representative's motion, because if the government had brought it to us, it would have been a much longer process. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, has come before us with an important question, which many of you have approached us with, and I ask you once again to tell us that we should be sure and reassure the fishing that is still in operation that it is not against them, that it is not restricting them even more. I think that this is a very, very important issue, and I want it to be heard as much as possible, because then one will be able to support this law with a pure and good heart, otherwise it would not be possible to support it with a pure and good heart. We really do have one request that, if there is one, they should act honestly and honestly on this issue, not make anyone impossible and have everyone in the area where they wish to work with honor and honor. Thank you.
u2015-11-03-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask the KDNP Group if anyone wishes to speak. [[On the mark of László Földi:]] He'll tell you later. Thank you. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-11-03-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I also welcome the representatives of the profession. In advance, I must say that, although no one from the government is following this debate, at least for the sake of the record, I would like to say that Jobbik is likely to support this proposal. [[Dr. Bitay to Márton Örs:]] As I see it, Mr Secretary of State has already arrived, so I would like to point out to him that so far it looks like we can support this proposal. We have critical comments, and we will submit our amendments by Thursday, and we hope that they will be constructive. So I would not go into all the technical details here, but I would like to describe three things, which, by the way, will be a cliché, and I think that every faction agrees that there are at least three cornerstones in which the Hungarian fish farming should move, and what are the cornerstones along which it would be worth constantly reviewing the legislative amendments, how they stand to meet these goals, and according to them, even to change or refine them later. It is disappointing, and I have already mentioned this at a committee meeting, how little fishing contributes, for example, to tourism, compared to the circumstances of our country; so how far our country has not spread that it could otherwise be a fishing paradise in the world. It would be good if we could put Hungary on the world map in this respect. I know that this is not the task of this law, that there are plenty of other opportunities to apply and that coordination with other sectors is also important, but I think we still have a lot to do here. With this statement, I have also accepted that the direction that we have seen since 2010 is that the focus on fishing is on industrial fishing, Jobbik has always supported, we have accepted and supported all initiatives of the government in this direction. The other important pillar is the issue of native fish and species, and their habitat, the provision of eggsing opportunities and a kind of conservation approach, but this will be discussed in more detail by my fellow Member Zsolt Egyed. I know that it is also not necessarily possible to deal with this in the context of this law. At the same time, it is also disappointing to say that in Hungarian bakeries, whether around Lake Balaton or anywhere else in the country, it is virtually impossible to meet Hungarian fish from a legal catch, and I think that an average citizen of the city, an average Hungarian citizen, may be that which is most interested and annoying. It would be good to have more progress in this regard as well. I think it would be a flawed concept if, of course, fish caught by fishing could be sold freely, we all know what kind of robbery this would lead to, and no one is talking about that when I am legally missing the fish getting to the bakeries, and I would like to push today's debate a little further. I think that ecological and selective fishing is not well-ordered either, because the path of the fish caught here is not clear to me either, since it cannot be put back in the water, nor is it legally sold. [[14.40]] It would be good to have some sort of solution to this, as fish caught in such fisheries could be sold with a right to fish management. In terms of both the alien and native fish, I think a change could be considered. Perhaps it would be worth mentioning here what I have already said in the hunting law, the cormoran problem. I know that many organizations struggle with the cormorant and its weakness. Here it would certainly be good to introduce an even lighter regulation than earlier mitigations, because, for example, as I said in the previous debate, a hunting company cannot now access its fishing area. It would be good to say that the information to the hunting company would also be sufficient to enable this cormorance to be carried out in its own territory. It would also be nice to hear what is going to happen in the fisheries and fisheries department of FM, with an item that is now supposed to be around 600 million forints, and when to write out the tenders that have been promised for two years now. That's the sum of the two thousand-forint tickets, isn't it? We're also glad that there's a state of custody, but it's still a smiling thing that it's ten people in a country this size. That would be interesting even for every county, even on a national level. So we should definitely get an answer to that. I understand that this amount could be used to protect fish, but really, when will this opportunity finally come? I understand that at present there are perhaps 15 organisations who have been able to apply successfully for this, but for example, fish farming in natural waters has been excluded from this option so far. This may be an outdated issue now, but I would definitely like to find out what is going on with the fishing organisations, how they will be able to apply here, at the different levels or tenders of Mahop or KEOP, because I know that this has been a debate, whether this may have been boxed up or where we stand against Brussels. These fishing organisations would be very interested, because those who approached me have not been informed of this. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no accidental slippage in the adoption of the legislation, because even two or three months of free robbery, which could result in an irreversible damage in the waters, would certainly have to be avoided. This Jobbik is also offering his help because it would be the worst scenario, I think, for all of us. It is also very worrying and draws attention to a very serious problem that I have been going around the issue, and I have not found any fish processors in Hungary that would work profitably. This legislation does not have to deal with it either, but if this is already the case, let us be honest about how it is possible that I will not find any such fish processors in a country with such abilities. It will also be worth mentioning the bug problem, and my colleague, Lajos Kepli, will ask questions here in Balaton, because it is a time bomb, and it would be good to treat it, because I do not see the way it is right now. I also have a question about the fish stairwell, but we also had a few attempts in Hungary, and these projects ended with mixed success, but whether there is some kind of measure, or if there is some guidance on what steps and where to build in the future, because, as I said, experience is mixed. It doesn't work properly everywhere. However, what we see is that where it works, it does make sense, and there are also sections where it must be raised, and there is also an international dimension. I have been promised several times by various state ministers that the question of the Iron Gate will also be raised in international forums, because in the past, not so long ago, the presence of the cases in Hungary was of great importance in terms of human scale. Now I'm thinking about the species that spend most of their lives in the sea, and they just go up to the Szigetköz or the Tiszahat. When will we be able to ensure that these are made available, when will there be international treaties that might force our neighbours in the south to give us the opportunity to do so again? It would also increase the prestige of Hungarian fishing by the way, if this could finally happen again. There are also serious shortcomings in places suitable for spawning. During the Island, I had the opportunity to accompany two projects. Both tried to improve habitats for fish reproduction worth about six billion forints, but there were absurd cases where high-quality river gravel extracted in one project could not be used for the other project, who, say, would have requested this in large quantities, because in Brussels the government was responsible for the renegotiation or rationalization of this project - one had to be clearly certified with an account, the other had no revenue from the project. Because much more could have been made out of these billions for the fish, for the fishermen, if they had been used rationally. I would like to place much more emphasis on these, too. [[Attila Móring József takes the notary seat.]] Overall, as I said, we can support the legislation itself, but I have tried to show a few small areas or a little bit more to show how much work there is to be done in this area, and how many laws that are related or close to this need to be amended in order to live in a country where, indeed, there will be plenty of other sectors and many Hungarians living in the countryside to work and prosper by, let us say, doing this sport fishing properly. In summary, we bettermen would be happy if we could live in a country where, for example, these cases would be free to sprawl and repopulate our wild water, if Hungary were to reappear, or if this was not the right one, I would say that it could be on the fishing map of the world. It would be good if areas such as the management of degrees or the regulation of our waters or the creation of jobs in rural areas could all be integrated into this area. And let us not forget that traditional fishing must also find its role, its potential. I know I've seen how much tourists in Western Europe would want to be able to make a traditional fishing a tangible experience for them. It would be good to preserve this existence, of course, within a regulated, strict framework, before the Secretary of State says that Jobbik wants to bring back fishing or is on its side in natural waters. Of course, that is not the case, but it would be very good to have every opportunity to do so. We do not want to see this traditional, traditional fishing carried out only as an activity shown in skanzen. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that much more emphasis should be placed on the issue of invasive species in terms of fish and crustaceans, but I could also mention shellfish, on which I am also afraid that the complexity of this problem and the kind of financial burden that would be needed to reduce this process or to monitor it at all, are not being taken into account by the government, nor by financial means, although the current process is causing irreversible damage. I have already mentioned indigenous breeds, and it would also be good if as many of our species as possible were to be removed from the protected, highly protected category, if habitat development could be created and fish farming would take place in Hungary to ensure the long-term development and reproduction of these species. That concludes my lines and, as promised, we can support the legislation as a whole, and we will present our amendments in time. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-84	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-03-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to welcome our guests, and I will continue where my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, stopped saying that it would be good to have some species removed from the highly protected list, and that protected species could possibly be re-used economically. Where I live from fishing waters, striped cabbage was traditional folk food, and therefore there is obviously romance about it. However, let me say that Jobbik's voting behaviour, if it supports this, is a little contrary to what it is doing again, because the restoration of the natural fish fauna will not result in fishing exploitation. For the very reasons that my fellow Member has said, because he cannot be selective and cannot take into account the needs of natural fish fauna. It is a very, very bad feeling to disagree with even the opposition now, because obviously I have to take the opposite position on this subject, accepting that I am a pro-fisher at some level, because I think that the pursuit of fishing, which has traditionally been maintained in balance, does not serve conflicting interests as fishing. [[14.50]] And it would have been good for the legislator to retain this possibility earlier, because I cannot believe in it in any way, and I do not think it is realistic that it will be able to maintain a lifelong profession for traditional purposes. Anyway, I was saying or I wanted to start there that it felt really bad not to be constructive, because in the case of the Wildlife Protection, Hunt and Wildlife Law, I did everything I could to make the most consensual proposal possible and to cooperate with the Wallet in order not to have a political debate, but unfortunately I can't do that, because here I simply can't accept the aspects that the legislator has set out. I would also like to refer these to the attention of my fellow opposition Members. I ask you very much, and really, with all due respect, I ask my fellow Member, Lajos Szűcs, not to take this personally, but it is terribly strange for me when the President of Magos comes in, and technically... not the Magos! The president of Mohos comes in and basically acquires rights to his own organization that have a lot of money attached to it. The reason we heard the Magos was because it's just as weird for me when the head of the agricultural chamber comes in and tells us to make an expert system that's mandatory for us to use and for the agricultural chamber. So when Members of Parliament already represent and advance the interests of their own organisations, I obviously think this is embarrassing, as it arises what purpose this exploitation of fishing is for the common good. Let me ask for the opinion of Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs on this matter because I am curious about his professional position, who would like to see some uniform legislative aspects as a lawyer, because we have just debated here with my fellow Member, Mr Font Sándor, that there should be a mandatory employment of 3 000 ha, 4 000 ha, from the use of a natural resource or 599 ha; now we are talking about no obligation, but we are just giving him the right to use natural resources without expecting anything. But it's not just that we don't expect it, we don't want it. As long as we consider it natural in the wild to guard the game, we give the fish for free robbery, it doesn't matter. And since the exploitation of fishing has ceased, there are many experiences to talk about, and I think you're exchanging ideas with professionals, but in many areas of water, there has been a significant increase in poaching and poaching, and the reason for that is unguarded. So when we talk about the fact that the legislative or proposing individual Member says that the legislation is contained in Article 24 of the Act. The amendment to Section 5 of the Act on the transfer of the right of the State to fish management to an organisation registered in a court representing the national interest representation of fishing associations by appointment by the Minister raises the question of what we expect in return. In the case of the hunting law, we expect a professional hunter to be employed. We're obviously debating how many halves, but that's the minimum requirement. We expect the recycler to guard it. Do we have ten fishmen in Hungary? Nonsense! Why can't you be the one who's profiting? As a result, I would really like to be constructive, but at the moment, the whole thing is in such a downbeat mood. We are talking about the fact that there is a right to dispose of natural resources that the state has. The State is entitled to it because it is a community property, owned by Hungarian society. And he wants to give the benefits of this right to someone. This is about a river, a fish grows in it, and in order to fish, who collects the money, and who gets the money. And obviously not because I am an opposition representative, but because I feel insulted by my interests as a Hungarian person, it should serve the common good. How can he serve the common good? You can serve me if I don't give you this right by appointment, but by making it conditional. Please do, and let's see who creates more jobs from this, where more fishmen will be. But not only will it be a fishwatcher where, it is very important not only to impose the Water Framework Directive, which provides for a good ecological condition, but also the fishing approach that prioritises the expansion of the domestic fish fauna, how I can serve it. Please, let us not appoint this, but give it to someone who agrees to do the selective fishing himself. Let's give it to someone who's willing to take on the share of native fish fauna and how it contributes to improving the status of the waters. So, obviously, we can be in this debate because the national Member of Parliament says that they will do so, they will do so, but there is no legal guarantee, and that is the concern. Obviously, there may be a trust between the government and the pro-government representatives that it will be created, but this trust path does not have to be present between an opposition representative and an organisation represented by a pro-government representative. Not to mention the fact that we can't just prepare for the fact that there will always be an organisation run by a government parliamentary representative and that the government will remain in government. So, obviously, there should be safeguards here that provide an opportunity for the angler, with legal constraints, to encourage the fisherman to partially restore the native fish fauna, partially eliminate the presence of the adventive species and their rise in the rivers, partly contribute to employment and preserve the state's wealth. If these obligations are to be expected, then obviously the only way to do so is to define in concrete terms how the recovery right can be used by the user, built in by law. As a result, I do not agree in any way with the Minister being able to appoint any organisation or not any organization, because he can practically appoint one, I understand. So you're saying that there's one of these in the country for a court-registered organisation with a national interest in fishing associations. So you can name it, and you shouldn't pretend there's such a big tender opportunity here. Because after that, in the next point (b), he says that he has the right to fish by way of a public tender for a lease. Obviously, this is hypocrisy at a certain level, if an organization can apply, then why do we need it. But that's not the point, it's the fact that whoever's using me can be the Mohos the Recycler forever, as long as this God is in heaven, always, just expect something. As a representative of the Hungarian State, Parliament is in principle the main representative of the people. Obviously, within the current regulations, it is not able to fulfil this task of representing a people, and it is not intended for many to achieve this, but, nevertheless, in this activity, it would be expected that this common wealth and common value will be used as efficiently and as efficiently as possible in the interests of the common good. The very consensus with the former Secretary of State on the Wildlife Management Act, which we have just found in trace amounts, is the lack of an approach to this. Because it should be the same here, the same approach should be taken, the same natural resource, the same right of exploitation, and if I expect one of the natural resources recipients to carry out tasks under national supervision with the participation of professionals with a higher education degree, it is incomprehensible why I do not expect the same with the use of another resource. Please, why aren't there gonna be a head fisherman or head fisherman in the system? Why don't we just order the fishing associations to be checked? How do we require fishing associations along natural waters to meet their obligation to collect an amazing amount of illegal waste left by fishermen? What do we do to enforce those rules? Who is the specialist who will perform all this in the case of a fisherman? In the absence of all of this, I have a concern that it is, in effect, that we want to give the benefits of a community natural resource to someone with whom we are friends or who we are not friends, it doesn't matter, but the benefits will be borne by an organization, and therefore there will be a major social deficit. I don't want to be right, because there are some things I want bad for the government, but there are things I don't want bad for, but I think this is going to be a big scandal. So, given that fishing law will be regulated and defined by designation, there will still be significant conflicts at local level, which may not be heard until Pest, but nevertheless, the same effort that we have seen in the field of field applications, how to squash communities and neighbor farmers, this will be even better achieved here, with an activity that should basically serve relaxation and rest, and if I used the image to open a gate to nature in the hunt, then this could also have the same role, since István Fekete in Tüskevár also said that he could only be a highly reduced mortal. As a result, we must create opportunities. Obviously, I understand the government's position by satisfying the social needs of a representative body from the perspective of such a social group. At the same time, the Parliament needs to protect the state's assets, community property, and the resources that they contain, as well. As a result, I will in no way suggest to my own group a supportive attitude in this regard, which, if the opposition parties maintain their position, will not, of course, need the government, but I will do everything I can to dissuade the opposition parties in their conviction, because unfortunately, it seems to me to a significant extent that this measure does not serve rural employment, we do not ensure that fish are kept. [[15.00]] It does not serve the restoration of native fishfauna. It is not used to take adventive species. It doesn't serve a good ecological condition. It does not provide guarantees that illegal waste left by fishermen will be treated so that the fisherman fulfils a lot of its legal obligations. For all these reasons, the deficit that must be borne will affect the state and the Hungarian community as a whole by giving the opportunity and the rights of revenue to Mohos the whole, so that we do not impose obligations on what has to be done. So, basically, I cannot support this direction in this legislative amendment proposal for my part. I do not feel that this kind of amendment serves the interests of Hungarian society. This is specifically in the interests of Mohos, which can obviously be an important body, but on the basis of such a principle, I wonder why, if this is the only way to do it, one person can do it and coordinate it, so why doesn't the state keep it to itself? But I also know the answer to that, Minister Lazarus said that what is being treated by the state is either stolen by one government or by the other government. So in this respect, it can be practical. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2015-11-03-86	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if the independent Member wishes to comment. [[On the mark of László Varju:]] I don't see any contact. No one's come forward for a two-minute comment. Speakers announced: Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik!
u2015-11-03-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, As my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar mentioned or said, Jobbik supports the bill in any way. However, with my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict, if I may, I would like to have a little debate here on fishing. As my colleague Zoltán Magyar said, the preservation and presentation of traditional fishing is very important, because it is part of our culture, but, honourable Member, the conduct of fishing in an industrial fashion will result in an end result, which unfortunately exists on Lake Balaton, but unfortunately it is very difficult to catch fish. I think - and I hope that everyone sitting here in this room, and especially those who are fishing - that it is not true, Member, that this proposal cannot create jobs, because if our waters are clean and can be said calmly in my opinion, in the 25 years since the industry has unfortunately ceased to exist in Hungary, our natural waters have become practically water quality. I believe that there is only one breakout point for rural settlements with a river, a stream or perhaps a mining lake to give sports fishermen the opportunity to pursue their hobbies at the right level and under the right conditions. On the other hand, at a given site, I think it could be a job creation, because these visitors need accommodation, these visiting people need to eat somewhere. I believe that this could be the direction that could represent an outbreak point in certain rural settlements where otherwise nothing else is possible. My colleague Zoltán Magyar mentioned the endangered species of Hungarian fish. I would also like to say a few sentences about this, because here we can talk about the sturgeons, for example - by the proximity of the Tisza to me - as well as about its grace. So these fish have basically disappeared from our rivers because their natural spawning sites have ceased. I think that the government should also pay much more attention to this and look for opportunities for self-reproduction to be feasible, because there are programmes for this, but the release of juveniles in the water, and then, when the fish becomes reproductive, but there is no proper environment, I think that this is not a long-term solution. So that is what I would like to draw attention to. The other very important thing is that, in connection with fishing associations, there must be a legal opportunity for these associations to participate in tenders, because I have also spoken to the leaders of several fishing associations, and everyone simply says that there are conditions that, despite any effort, fishing associations are unable, if there is any possibility, to comply with the terms and conditions. Anyone who fishes knows very well - or who is more involved in this matter than our guests - what income opportunities a fishing association has. The opportunity for a fishing association to collect membership fees from the members of the fishing association. That's how he's gonna have to solve the fish settlement, which is how he's gonna solve practically everything. I think that, in the long term or even in the medium term, it would benefit fishing associations and their members, if these associations could develop and participate in applications, because here, as I mentioned earlier, a strong foundation for these organisations could be that they can build tourism, guest fishermen and thus earn income. So I would like to draw the attention of the honourable government representatives and the government to this. As mentioned above, Jobbik will support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-03-88	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs in two minutes.
u2015-11-03-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would only like to respond to those raised by Mr Sallai, that we give these areas without obligation or without obligation, there is a designation, and it will receive Mohos and see you again. The one that's important is that Mohos doesn't get it, they get it from a nationwide fishing association. It's one thing to know what opportunities there are or aren't, but it doesn't close the gate for anyone. Number two, which is very important, is that the sale of the right to fish management will take place in connection with a lease agreement. The lease agreement has compensations. Anyone who will receive these rights by appointment must pay the compensation, whether it be Mohos or any other organisation. I felt it was very important to add. So it's not that, on a friendly basis, what you said, that Congressman Szűcs is currently a columnist member of the Fidesz-KDNP, and that is why, as President Mohos, he is trying to bring one of these in. It's not that. This is not given to anyone who participates in this appointment on a friendly basis, but for this he must pay money. It is therefore not possible for us to manage public property, property rights, in a way that is not rational or legitimate. I just want to draw your attention to one more thing about keeping fish. Everyone here has a very wide spectrum of tasks to perform. I think it's very good that the associations carry out these tasks. While the state has a few dozen fishmen per moment, only the Mohos have 600 fishmen, and otherwise there are 6,000 more in social work. So the objective that you would like to achieve is abundantly achieved by this amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-11-03-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-11-03-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is only worth noting that, given the issue of fishing and the closure of fishing in Balaton, it is clear that fishing catches in Balaton have grown because of the fact that fishing was stopped in December 2013, I believe that it would be professionally unfounded, since it is not yet clear and responsible to say so in such a short period of time. This was based primarily on the opinion of the fishermen, telling the fishermen. The catch logs are now unified and there is a centralised state catch log, which has not yet been processed for 2014, or at least the results have not yet been known. In this connection, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what is the situation in this regard. Previously there was a separate catch log, for example, on Lake Balaton, and it was possible to find out soon enough how the catch of fishermen had changed at local level compared to the previous year. Fact and truth, there was a big debate between fishermen and fishermen. This contrast developed to the point that it was probably the result of some political lobby, but the fishing in Balaton was stopped. [[15.10]] As a result, the lush are not caught from the lake at the moment, the fishing of the lush has ceased, which may sooner or later cause serious problems. I am not saying this as a politician, but from the mouth of experts and experts from Tihany's lynologies on the 57th Tihany hydrobiology days, that the busabomb is ticking in the Balaton: at the moment the lushes are not dying, but if this happens, and if these not rarely 30-40-pound corpses are landed on the beach, then it is not necessarily good for a beach season, especially if this happens in bulk. Obviously, harvesting these wasn't an accident. On the other hand, my fellow Member Zsolt Egyed also pointed out that there is a relatively limited amount of food for fish in Lake Balaton, and that the lushes simply eat from the nobler fish. Nor has it been proven that they are not multiplying in Lake Balaton: it was also said at the hydrobiology conference that the claim that the busa does not reproduce in Lake Balaton seems to be overthrown. And so, in vain, we expect them to grow old, run out, die out of the lake, and the watersheds seem to continue to supply. So I think that stopping fishing was not a professionally thoughtful and necessarily smart decision. Once again, we are talking about ecologically selective fishing, because before that, it was only fishing for non-economic purposes in Lake Balaton. Contrary to this, there were allegations made by the opponents, including anglers, that fishing would rob Lake Balaton. However, it is worth paying attention to rapsics, with whom we still haven't been able to fully deal with. They go out with such technical means that six or eight sticks of a sailboat are dangled into the water that their capture or action is extremely problematic. It is still not enough, I think that the number and equipment of the fish guards and sanctions could be further tightened, because the real threat to the fish stocks in Balaton, I think, is them. And there is also an aspect of this that is not possible to buy Balaton fish in restaurants in Balaton, which is important for tourism, because the Balaton fishing has been responsible for, among other things, the fish bakeries in Balaton. The other fish were mainly fish-raising lakes and other sources before, but so many times, fish from foreign fish and illegal sources, unfortunately fish from rapsics and anglers, have also been found, and they have often been caught in various catering facilities. So, from legal sources, you can't meet Balaton fish in the Balaton coastal catering unit at the moment; this is quite interesting, as everyone is looking for it. Obviously, they don't go down to Lake Balaton primarily because of the heck, but either because of the basses of Balaton or the bass or other fish that tourists would like to taste. This is gastrotourism, a branch of tourism, and various festivals have organized for this. It is quite problematic to organize a fish festival without fish, and by fishing, the amount that the guests who arrive will consume cannot be produced. I think that sooner or later some kind of fishing will be necessary: primarily for ecological and/or Turistian purposes, and for the purpose of preserving tradition, so that the old professions can survive. Of course, we do not support fishing for economic purposes. I think this problem needs to be dealt with in the longer term, so I asked for the floor to say this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-92	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-11-03-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was happy to listen to the thoughts of my fellow Members here, and I would have expected that Mr Kepli... - I am a lowland child, I know less, but I think there is also a garden festival in the region without a chaperone, and there are some other interesting things to talk about. So obviously, I can also rename fishing for gastronomic purposes, if this is what is needed and sounds nicer to the legislator, but obviously, the possibility of this, about whether there should be a need for it, it is worth talking about. Mr. Secretary, if you don't mind, let me draw your attention to a little inconsistencies. That, in the course of the debate on the previous legislation and in previous discussions, I think you have taken a very professional stand in favour of abolishing the institution of paper gamers. Compared to this, you are now presenting the institution of social fish guards as a huge achievement, which is basically a piece of paper, which you have no obligation, no duty, nothing at all. So if the paper gamers and the paper fishers were to highlight the difference, I would obviously thank you, because if the paper gamers weren't needed in society and they had to be weeded out, then why can't we expect full-time fish guards to perform the fish-watching task? [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] So it's just an obligation. Yeah, that's where my fellow Member says, if that's okay with them. Yeah, obviously it's a good thing you don't have to pay people, and you don't have to worry about it, because it costs money. [[It's grumpy.]] In the same way, we would like to say, Mr State Secretary, that this is done by concluding a treaty, in which obviously the government can prescribe things. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm just missing why there's no law on what the conditions are. If they were insured and visible about how these conditions were reflected and could be achieved on the basis of the considerations previously mentioned, how to restore the native Hungarian fish fauna, how to extract the Adventive, how to contribute to rural employment, how to preserve this wealth, then without further ado, we could say that this is absolutely correct. And then I'll get to Congressman One. As long as we are also making the hunting law an analogy, we have debated here in the spring and again this year, how much of a specialist with a degree in hunting skills we need per hectare. Please, why don't we have to put fish management engineers, professionals with higher education in fisheries and fisheries with legal guarantees in the system? I'll tell you why this is a problem. You were able to tell them that fishing associations and their anglers put their heads together, that it was bad for them that they couldn't get another source. Please, it's because there's no competent person. In the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, there has been, in recent years, a specific tourism development on the third axis where fishing associations could apply for such tourism developments, and there was a way, but if it is not required to employ a competent person, then of course it will not find out and scratch its head on how bad it is for me. Well, that's why we need to install this system, which is why we need to hire game management people with a higher education degree, and that's why we need to hire fish management engineers and fishing engineers in the process of exploitation, because if we have skills, then we might solve this problem of how to raise resources. You said it the same way, and let me draw your attention to that, because it is very important rhetorically how we put it, and you said it was true that you cannot create a job. I didn't say that was true. What I'm saying is that you do, and I just want you to have an obligation to do that, just like we do in hunting. I would like there to be a legal guarantee that this will be done. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Read the law.]] You said it could be a job creation; I agree with that. The only question here is whether or not there should be an obligation, because there is a need in these rural areas for what you liked to talk about to have a job. If we agree that this is what these rural areas need, if we agree that it would be good for the municipalities to have income from fishing exploitation to serve employment goals, then let us put it as a guarantee in this legislation, let us add that, under competitive conditions, we give the right to fish to those who undertake to achieve the highest possible level of employment. Obviously, this is important because, when he began his speech earlier by contrasting fishing and fishing with one another - obviously this is also an ideological approach - then I was drawn closer to the speech of his fellow Member, who acknowledged that there could be a justification for fishing methods that are not merely traditional. There are a lot of things that depend on how you feel about it. My life turned out to be as my brother Otto Herman's book The Book of Hungarian Fisheries read details earlier than I would have taken Cooper's Wildlife into my hands, and as a result, I obviously consider the preservation of the fishing culture to be part of the Hungarian heritage, so that I can stand by the fact that the elimination of these prehistoric occupations is a terrible crime against a nation that should not have been allowed. The fact that it could have been limited, could have been placed within some rules and framework is fine, but the lifelike nature of someone to keep the traditions of his father and grandfather simply in order to preserve tradition will unfortunately not be supported by the last year or by the next period. On this basis, I would also like my fellow Members to consider that if all that you consider to be an option would be incorporated into the legislation with legal guarantees and would appear as an obligation, would they not provide any more solutions, because such ones, which you have been able to say, create the opportunity to serve the interests of local communities better and to contribute to this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-03-94	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. [[15.20]]
u2015-11-03-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman Sallai, We talked about trying not to make a policy out of this, but you indicated that you couldn't show restraint here. I'll try. The institution of the paper hunter and the paperfisher, which is not a real concept, but does it sound good to confuse that it is the same? ! Well, I'm sorry. The thing about the paper hunter's institution is that I hire someone on paper and I pay contributions because the law requires it to be unreasonable. Where's this with the fish guards? What kind of fish guards have that, dear congressman? Let's get our shit together. Half of what he told me where it was written is in the law. You have to look at the law. You have to read how you can rent it, what you have to do, how you can pass it on, what income you get. Seriously, let's take the debate of this law a little more seriously. It's not enough that your dear brother has been a great help in your preparation, and you have to dig deep into it if you want to learn the true content of these laws. That fishing will not be sustainable, no, no and no, and the end of the world and this industry... Well, let's be clear. There are only a hundred people who are now engaged in large-scale fishing in Hungary. It is not about destroying any traditional existing industry in connection with large-scale fishing, but it is about - but this is very interesting from the mouth of a man who sets himself up as an eco-politicist and an eco-politicist - that in natural waters, perhaps we should not be fishing in large-scale fishing to try to produce fish for various commercial purposes. Shouldn't the LMP be welcoming this from an ecological point of view? Do you stand up as an organic politician, and in your previous speech, do you think it would be worth considering that the various fishing opportunities for protected species should be opened as wide as possible? The record records something like that, Mr. Congressman. Make it clear: what would you like to do about fish management now? How do we allow as many protected fish as possible to be fished out of Lake Balaton for fishing? You obviously didn't say that. It's just a trivial example. But if I put it together one by one, it turns out it's neither ecological nor large-scale fish management. Then what exactly is your position? This has been our many debates on this matter. If it's in the law, let's not ask where it is after we talk about this law. It's the law, Mr. Congressman. You have to read it, and you'll see exactly what's going on. The head hunter in the countryside and the head fisherman in the countryside - I really don't want to offend you - is similar to the little meaningless set of paper hunter and paper fisher for me. I'm asking you very nicely not to compare apples and Ferrari. They may both be red, but they're completely different. The role of the regional leader hunter is different, and the role of the fish guards is completely different, and their role in social work is completely different, the whole association structure system is completely different; they are not in a thank-you relationship either. The Ministry of Agriculture has been criticised by Congressman Kepli about fishing in Balaton. Obviously, the author will respond to the other points, but let us be clear here, too, so that things do not get mixed up. With regard to busa, the amount of busa found in Lake Balaton is estimated at approximately 3,000 tonnes. While fishing for the buse, Balaton Fisheries Ltd. and later Fish Management Nonprofit Zrt. He's done, he's taken 100-150 tons. The main problem with fishing was that it was not effective. What was wrong with him was that we couldn't locate him in the right place, when and where the faggot was, and how it could be fished out of there. Otherwise, there is a resemblance to what Congressman Zoltán Magyar said in relation to the fish staircase. Here come the huge problems of how there is a buse installed in lake farms in the water catchment area of Lake Balaton, which is directly connected to Lake Balaton. We are amazed that there is not only a large buse in Lake Balaton, although it is said not to reproduce, but also to be small. These problems must be solved first! Obviously, the point of shutting down fishing was that ecological selective fishing - because no other fishing has been going on in Lake Balaton for thirty years - had not reached the hoped-for. We've been trying to solve a problem with an inappropriate device. I'm just saying, I'm not sure we're right, I'm not sure that's a long-term solution. In fact, it certainly won't be a solution. We still need to work out how to remove otherwise invasive alien species, not alien species, but it certainly didn't solve the problem in thirty years, but it only escalated and increased, even though there was continuous fishing, so it didn't bring the right result. With regard to catering, he correctly noted that the situation is different for other fish species. But I would also like to mention that, for example, the quantity officially caught from Lake Balaton is 2 tonnes and, according to medium estimates, the restaurant supply is 50-55 tonnes, which is served as a Balaton bass. I don't want to hurt anyone, I just want to say that this problem exists, but this problem will remain, and it doesn't matter whether we allow fishing or not with a tugnet or any net, that problem will still be present, because the restaurant needs from the original Lake bed in Balaton are unlikely to be met. It seems more likely that the various lake economic backgrounds - which, in error, does not have, for example, the State or has not sold its exploitation rights correctly - will have to be taken over, and that the non-profit company will have to take this back where possible - should be used to continue the production of fish that these needs can be met. And, as we discussed at the committee meeting, perhaps it would be possible to expand, sir, and not only in relation to a fish fry in Balaton - which is commercially questionable, but rather from a socio-cultural point of view - but also in some kind of bart network to various large food chain networks, where you could buy the fish in Balaton for an ordinary mortal like me, which, of course, we know is in that ecosystem, does not necessarily come out of the lake bed. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two-minute comment, Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-11-03-97	Thank you very much. Indeed, there is a need to separate organic and other fisheries. However, it is strange when there is Szigligeten a reptile festival without a bass or apologies, not without a bass, but with a Transcarpathian bass, but 90 percent of the people who go down to this festival are convinced to eat a Balaton bass. But in the same way, there will be the Tihany Garden Festival between 13 and 15 November. Where do you get a gardener at the garden festival? Used to be, like Gábor Füstös, the Balaton Fish Management Company. His former director said that sometimes during selective fishing there was a garden in the net, these were collected by them, and when there was a garden festival in Tihany, this not too large quantity was offered there for gastronomic purposes. But how can we make a Balaton gastronomic festival without actually a Balaton fish? I very much agree that restaurants cannot be satisfied with fish from the lake bed in Balaton, but they do not have to. Only then will the question of the lake economy, which has already been referred to by the Secretary of State, be settled, because it would be good if at least the fish came from the lake farms around Lake Balaton. You don't have to fool consumers, you don't have to fool customers by saying that it's a Balaton fish, because I, once again, am convinced that when most of the people visit these gastro-festivals, or sit in a restaurant on the shore of Lake Balaton, where it's written that it's a Balaton fish, they don't start to think about whether it's a lake or a Balaton-medri, they'll consider it as a fish caught from Lake Balaton. This is also important for tourism, as gastronomic tourism is an increasingly important and popular aspect of tourism. Let's take a look at either the bass or the chaperone, tens of thousands of people on these weekends, including so that they can taste these fish and learn about the traditions related to their fishing and to participate in the various programmes. Once again, we need to settle this issue. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.30]]
u2015-11-03-98	Thank you very much, Congressman Kepli. Two minutes out of line, Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-11-03-99	I would just like to stress that this is not a part of the law, so we are going in a slightly different direction. We're talking about what's going on with the Balaton fish. But I've got a lot of heartache, too. Obviously, I need to be cured. However, I would just like to say that there is not an inaction situation here, if I may say so for the record. We introduced the electronic fishing ticket, this year an international competition was held at Lake Balaton, where the number of international canditors was close to 100, and it was live television broadcasting. We have focused the development of fishing tourism specifically on the development of the waterfront, by spending a billion-dollar lot. We have confirmed the conservation of fish at Balaton Fishing Nonprofit Zrt., and we have managed to recover the lake farm in Varászló, which was not previously carried out by Balaton Fishing Nonprofit Zrt. operated. We've been able to move forward on a lot, a lot of things. With regard to the fish supply of festivals, I can tell you that it is indeed an important question of how fish gets into these festivals, but I consider these festivals to be less important in terms of fish management. We know, from a gastronomic point of view, culturally, fishing tourism is of great importance. But this situation, that once we allow something in some way, selective ecological fishing, is it possible for such festivals to open up a strictly controlled framework... - but, as I said, this is not part of this debate. But thank you very much for your concern.
u2015-11-03-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-03-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My apologies to my fellow Members, I thought we were here to discuss these laws. It's a general debate where it's supposed to be. I really don't want to waste your time. It would also be interesting to talk about river regulation, especially when it comes to fish management. After all, when we talk about what affects the conservation of native fish species, these are fundamental issues. But what is in front of us at the moment is not about that, but about nothing but the Law on fish management and the Protection of Fish 24. the interpretation of §8 of the EC Treaty. That's all we're talking about. That is why it is important to look at the fact that if the legislation takes care of it in one point, I have already explained it, but if you were not here, I will say this: by appointment by the Minister to a court-registered organisation representing the national interest representatives of fishing associations. They weren't here or they weren't paying attention to what we were arguing about. [[Sándor Font and Sándor Farkas: We discussed this on the committee.]] Mr. Secretary. Allow me to respond to a few things. You were saying that you don't understand where this piece of paper is coming from. Please, come on, get me the Wildlife Management Act and show me where the concept of a paper hunter is. Because you're using this as if it's something legally defined. One of them says it exists, the other one says, "Oh, well, I made that up." Please, I would like to inform you with great respect that there is no paper hunter defined in Hungarian legislation, which is the subject of a public address. I also used the same vocabulary to name the social fishwatcher as a non-full-time professional who carries out his duties during working hours, carrying out his duties at work. You used the term "paper gamer" for the same game management, so I took the liberty of using the concept of paper fisher in an analogue way. But if you show me in any of the laws that there is the concept of a paper hunter, then, of course, I will apologize. In natural waters, in relation to the comparison between fishing and fishing, the ecological approach was missing from my speech. I would therefore like to inform the Secretary of State with great respect that the ecological approach is not determined by the means of exploitation, but by the extent of the use and the magnitude of the use of natural resources. It is possible to fish in a sustainable way and to fish in an unsustainable way. At the moment, it is not about fishing or fishing, but about how it contributes to preserving the natural rejuvenation capabilities of fishfaunas. At the moment, what the legislator represents and what the Fidesz government has done to eliminate fishing, in my opinion, is pushing fish farming in Hungary in a more unsustainable direction, i.e. in a less ecologically desirable direction. When we talk about this, it is important for you to understand that it is not so that one is white, the other is black, that fishing can only be bad and unsustainable, fishing can only be good and sustainable. It's not like that. Both can be done with decency and well, and can be badly, uncredited. It's like a political profession, isn't it? In the case of protected species, you were told that I spoke about the possibility of re-fishing or fishing protected species. Please, it wasn't like that. You liked to call, you may not have heard the earlier speech of my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar. I have pointed out that nature conservation is not intended to create as many protected species as possible for its own sake, the good thing would be to preserve our fish fauna in such a way that as few protected species as possible are needed. This requires a supportive approach to fishing and fishing exploitation to the extent that this is facilitated. Since you seem to understand hunting a little bit better, let me tell you in analogy with the case of the summer goose, which I believe you have experienced the transformation of how a highly protected species has become a hunting species. In essence, if a conservation measure is effective, these species will become economically recyclable. I was not happy with this process as a conservationist, but the Hungarian society and nature conservation accepted this process. Obviously, if we look at the number of summer geese spent in Hungary this year, we can talk about the fact that hunting activity did not endanger the conservation of its population. Please, that's what this is all about. At the moment, if we are to ensure that as many species of fish as possible, indigenous species of fish, can be fished or caught, protection measures are needed to help preserve their populations. These efforts do not help this. That's what I've been trying to point out. You said I showed restraint about the Wildlife Management Act, and now it's less visible. Believe me, there's a lot of restraint right now, because if it weren't, all I'd talk about is how to play buddies with stealing rights to resources again... But I'm not saying that. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Please delete from the record, you didn't say.]] I'm not saying this because I'm showing restraint, but at the moment, if that's what you're asking me to do, then understand that this is my original position, and I'm trying to convince you with professional arguments. And you're here because in wild game management, what you understand clearly and what you're arguing for represents an activity contrary to that in this case. I have one more respectful request for the Secretary of State. I didn't ask for order of business on purpose, but I thought you'd understand, and maybe you'd respect it. With all due respect, I would ask you not to mention my brother in your speeches. Although the FM has already hinted that I am playing with my brother's position for my conduct, I would appreciate it if you would refrain from personalizing this, because I could say something like that about Mr. Secretary's brother, supervisory board, and such things that I am ignoring. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-03-102	Thank you very much. Out of line, two minutes, Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-11-03-103	Thank you very much for the floor. I just want to respond to one thing and what you said at the end. Well, I didn't say that with any bad intentions, but then I guess there's something about it that's bothering you because that's how you felt. I didn't mean to hurt you. For the paper-cutter-paper-fisher, just one more time, there's a law that requires a certain obligation. This obligation is fulfilled only on paper, in fact not. This is the name of the paper hunter known to us or known in everyday slang. But there's no such thing as a fishwatcher because he has a social position. Of course, anyone who is official has an official employment relationship. That's all I wanted to point out, not to escalate the debate. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed in two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-11-03-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond to my colleague Sallai's speech two years ago. You said you couldn't apply because there were no skilled, ergo ignorant people in the leadership. Congressman, that's not true. I know of a fishing association whose two leaders are involved in the writing of applications. I would simply like to say that these associations do not receive applications because they do not submit applications, but because they cannot meet the conditions of the invitation to tender. [[15.40]] And the other thing that you have debated with me about job creation here, Congressman, is that we must decide what is more beneficial for Hungarian society today in today's world. It is that if we appoint, say, 4,000 hectares or even thousands of hectares of water, and we find a fishwatcher for x pay, or if we can provide that thousands of hectares of water with proper care and proper maintenance, helping the fishing associations who otherwise manage it, we can bring guests there. The longer-term outcome will be that accommodation should be opened there, where appropriate in the settlement next to it or in its surroundings, and catering facilities should be operated. I think it is this job creation or this opportunity that can really create jobs in the sport fishing aspect, not that we are appointing a piece of fish guard, which, by the way, I am not arguing with him now that it is important for rapsics, but that is what I have referred to in terms of job creation, so I am continuing to take this line of thought. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-106	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek for two minutes, LMP.
u2015-11-03-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, it was my great pleasure to have been able to clarify the concept of the paper gamer, because this highlighted what I originally suggested, that the problem is that one has regulation that requires it and the other does not have it. I opposed this lack at the beginning of the debate, and this is what I said if the legislation concerned is 24. Instead of point (ba) of Section 4 of the Act, we would put in place a measure requiring us to give it to a recovery company who would undertake this. And I would like to apologise to my colleague Zsolt Egyed, with all due respect, for the fact that, if I could be interpreted as such, I basically meant the creation of specialist personnel for the participation of fisheries engineers. Obviously, I brought it up in the context of the application, for which I apologize, but believe me, the arguments you're saying confirm my position, not that we don't impose anything, but that we give it by appointment. So let's understand that the designation that is being created here is practically a power tool that is being implemented at some level and does not take into account the principles for which you stand, so that could be better achieved otherwise. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-03-108	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2015-11-03-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to address a few questions to Mr Secretary of State, because he was not available when I asked him, but I would like to take advantage of the very good habit he has recently come to answer during the debate and not only react at the end, because it may be possible to clarify the problems that have arisen. I would like to know very briefly what is going on with the 600 million forints accumulated at FM, and when will it be possible to apply. Here I am thinking of the fish conservation activity, for the fishermen, when this amount will be able to live and when it will start. [[Sándor Font: Are you asking this as an immediate question or question? The president's ringing the bell.]] No, no, but I'd like to take advantage of this new...
u2015-11-03-110	Congressman, continue, please.
u2015-11-03-111	I would like to take advantage of the new good habit for Mr Secretary of State to respond to this, when these applications will be launched, and whether the fishing organisations can now apply for Mahop and KEHOP, or not, and if so, they could be informed about them in time, because they are very curious about this. It would also be good not to do with this legislation, but to find out when a profitable fish processor will finally be in Hungary and when the budget will create these opportunities. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Go to the market and ask.]] In fact, if you have mentioned that unfortunately there is not enough capacity for the state of the lake farms, then I would be very curious to know whether this is going against Minister Lazarus's statement. So, if you're back in state control now, you're not gonna steal this, like you've been stealing state property for the last 25 years? The Minister has mentioned that this has worked this way over the last 25 years, which we, good people, have accepted for a reason, are sitting here in Parliament, I would just like to know how this will work in practice. In other words, if there really is a need to increase the capacity of the lake economy to the state, with which Jobbik fully agrees and supports it, why are some fish lakes now being sold in connection with land privatisation? I know that the two are not necessarily overlapped, as not all fishers are suitable for this activity, but there is certainly something worth transforming into such an activity with even smaller improvements. I suppose you examined this before the privatisation, and if you didn't, why didn't you? I would be very happy if this intense nationalisation of the lake farms around us - which I say we can basically support - could finally extend to Lake Fertő, because here I have received so many side talks from the secretary of state and, by the way, from countless ministers and secretary of state. Yes, when will it finally be resolved that you and the former socialist-liberal governments have privatized the entire Lake of Fertő with its reeds and all its other areas, when will this finally be restored to state ownership? There, too, I believe that this step would be to the pleasure of fishermen and tourism if they were just as vehemently on the side of nationalization as well. I'd wait for those answers. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-11-03-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Sallai, here he raised the possibility of hiring a fisheries engineer. Honourable Congressman, The reason why there are no fishing engineers is because - we've been debating this issue for almost an hour and a half and I've already told you several times - they simply don't have the money to maintain a fishing engineer. Basically, we're talking about the fact that fishing associations don't have the money, or maybe they're covering the amount that fish planting costs, and they only have one income, which is collecting membership fees. So I would like to say once again - here we have just been involved in the debate on the proposals - that I would like to extend the opportunity for the fishing associations to obtain money by tender, so that they can obtain adequate, XXI. They are able to operate the water surfaces entrusted to them in the 100th century. I am sure that if such an association is able to obtain funding for applications, it is likely that it will employ a fisheries engineer to provide even better service to its members, but let us not say such things, honourable Member, as long as these associations are struggling to survive. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed, and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs.
u2015-11-03-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I do not wish to waste a sentence on Congressman Sallai R. Benedict... [[Sallai R. Benedict: At least one!]] - at least one. 350,000 fishermen have been injured, and every single one of them is... [[Sallai R. Benedict: The Mohos?]] You can insult me, but you didn't insult me, but you insulted the gentlemen behind me, for example, Vice Presidents and the 350,000 fishermen behind them, who had a very old desire to take their own fate into their own hands, and all the problems you said, but we felt the opposite, we could solve. I respectfully ask that, if you talk about the people who are protecting the fish, it is not the ten state fishmen whose work is, of course, to comply with the fish legislation through Nébihen, but the people who, precisely so that a view can change in this country, that if we are fishing side by side, we can tell the other fisherman that you are fishing at a time when you cannot use this method, you will catch a fish that you cannot take away because of the size limitation, and that if we can create this view, then the visions that we want to create in Hungary in relation to fish management are actually the native species that we want to see in the waters. We have asked and we have proposed that we be able to do this through our own people. I highly recommend to the Member that he read the Fish Management Act, and he should know that for every water area an annual fish management plan should be drawn up at the moment, which is authorised to the extent that it is necessary to announce the plantings, to check whether the fish is actually planted in the water, the protection of indigenous species is a very important element of this law, of course, with invasive species, we too want to make a point on them as quickly as possible. [[15.50]] The cormorant issue has been mentioned in several Members. I would like to say that together, not within the framework of this law, but a very important issue must be resolved. It is not possible to weaken the cormorants in their nesting sites, because these animals are smart enough, but the conditions must be created to weaken them in nesting areas. This is the only solution that can prevent the invasive spread of this bird. Dear Anita Heringes, thank you very much for your sentences. What I can tell you is that the first purpose of the bill was not to compete with each other, but to try to give them an opportunity to exercise fish management rights. When I became president of Mohos, the gentlemen were the supporters of this thing, we said at the election that from now on, hands above the table, those who wish to approach us from among the fishing organisations with unfair intentions, we do not deal. The result of this work, for example, is that organisations who have been watching outside and formed separate fishing associations have returned to Mohos. My fellow vice presidents have done some pretty serious work on this. I would also like to share with you the good news that, for example, we have been able to get back the Tihanyi Inner Lake and we are expected to have a very short deadline for the Balaton Fish Management Nonprofit Zrt. He's joining the members of the Mohos, and we're trying to pull a big one again. Indeed, dear Member, we do not want to put anyone in an awkward position with regard to fishing. We will find a way to ensure the conditions for those who want to live on this, obviously in the fisheries, obviously in the stock control fisheries and in the use for organic or demonstration purposes that we have talked about, we will be able to find the conditions for them. I would like to say to Mr Zoltán Magyar that he has prepared - and we will present him to the public in the shortest possible time - a strategic plan that would like to propose more solutions for a comprehensive EU budget cycle on fishing tourism. But in order to do this, we have to change some of the rules, and I would like to connect to Zsolt Egyed, for example, in the program entitled "Accessable Hungary" the nature walkers and cyclists are named. We would also like to include fishing organisations in this area by amending a government decision, giving them an opportunity to achieve the goal you have said, so that they can apply, and they can make use of these conditions, and we can create them. It is important, but not part of this law, for example, to involve the water authority not at FM in problem management in relation to water areas, so that, for example, when water is discharged in a given water area, it does not occur during a spawning period, not when it is important for species conservation. In several sentences, the Secretary of State said that the development of the Hungarian fish brand, the identification of the water area, should take place. This obviously raises public health issues, animal health issues, but it's obviously a long time. In this regard, I hope that you will also be able to help us to do something about the fish price's VAT. This will not only help fishing organisations, but also help fish consumption in general. Congressman Lajos Kepli asked me to talk about what we would like with the catch log. Among the author's sentences, I said that we proposed to the Ministry that the catch record, the issue of fishing tickets and the examination be returned to Mohos. We're already dealing with that, and a small group of them spent a few days, by the way, free, dear Sallai Benedek, free, the Mohos Presidency is doing their job for free, not trying to get them as friends... [[Sallai R. Benedict: Paper Guide!]] Paper management? You're wrong. You're very mistaken, Congressman. You may not be able to handle this because you will receive more state aid than Mohos alone, all 350,000 of our fellow fishermen, but obviously I do not want to parallel fishing with Sallai Benedek. So I would like to say to Mr Lajos Kepli that we would also like to change the issue of fishing licences. If not yet in 2016, but we hope that in 2017 even a card-based and electronic fishing permit can be created so that catch record logs can be registered electronically with a smartphone app. This would also make sense - since today a large proportion of fishermen have mobile phones, if not always the most modern, but a mobile phone is there for everyone - that by sending a text message, they could register themselves in the water area. You could also send me information about the fish you caught and the fish you caught by texting me. With this, we want to speed up the management of catch record logs, because the purpose of the whole system is precisely that the fish and fish farming can only be actually created and implemented in the areas of water used, if we know exactly what fish and how much fish are needed in the area of water. Today's debate has gone a little beyond this framework, which is contained in this short amendment, but it has not been in vain. I think the fishing community is, of course, looking forward to it, and from here, we are taking the news of today's debate. I would ask my fellow Members to contact us with their amendments and then, in the ordinary way, Parliament should vote in favour of this bill. We're looking forward to it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-03-116	Thank you, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Mr Balázs Győrffy Fideszes, Member T/6981. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-11-03-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is a very short amendment, so I assure you, I will certainly not take advantage of the 30-minute time frame. However, in some thoughts it is appropriate to present the legislation, the amendment that we are discussing now. The basic method in the legislative amendment is that the owner of the land should be able to apply for a market rent two years after the conclusion of the lease agreement and every three years thereafter. [[16.00]] It is important to state that market rent. How could this happen? As a first step, the landowner requests an expert estimate from the National Agricultural Chamber, and then, paired with an accompanying letter, sends it to the land user, saying that he would like to continue to receive the amount of this rent for that area. The user of the land has the possibility that, if he does not agree with this amount, the chamber's valuation, he can go to court and ask the court to set the market rent. Why the Chamber? - you can ask the question, and obviously you have to answer that in substance. I think that most of the Chamber's membership comes from farmers, so they know perfectly well what the market rent is, because many of them are renting land for market rent. We believe that it is good to build such a first step, since it also makes it a real burden for the courts, because in the event that there is no dispute between the parties, we can avoid the court phase. However, if there is a disagreement, there is a conflict of interest, then the independent Hungarian court will still have the opportunity to determine what the market rent is. By the way, the court will also use some kind of expert, perhaps less regulated than the Chamber's experts estimate will. Why is that necessary? This is also a question that a logical person asks when he reads this legislative amendment. I think it is absolutely necessary to create a level playing field. It is not uncommon for some farmers to pay a quarter to a fifth in the form of land lease fees for what we now call the market. This may also be interesting from a point of view if such a company... - because let's face it, these very low rents typically stem from a contract concluded between the State and some tenant before 2010, as they may or may not have come up in one case that a company with such a rent, such a construction, was able to pay a much higher fee on the free market than the farmers in the area, with the possibility that, if it was projected on a hectare, it would still have a much lower rental than those who could operate their economy only within the framework of the market rent. So I think that this has created a distorted system that we should definitely find a solution to by making a proposal. It is also an interesting question of what if there is a new owner, heir, or sale by buyer. He gets a lease as a gift by not being able to participate in the details of it, such as the negotiation of the rent, he inherited it, and it is also a rather absurd situation that if a person buys an area at market prices, whether he is entitled to the rate of the market rent, because it might be possible to create a just situation. Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. I do not want to make my point longer, because it is indeed a not too long amendment. I respectfully ask the Parliament to support this amendment to protect landowners. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2015-11-03-118	Welcome, fellow Members. I'll ask Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs, if you'd like to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-03-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I do not want to go on long either, because we have had a chance to talk about this, and I think the content of this motion is very clear. I think that this should be dealt with in substance and, in my view, this is a correct amendment. The Government is also in this position and we, for our part, support this independent motion by its representatives. I think that it is a correct line of thought that, on the one hand, we should try to bring things closer to each other in the system, so that there are not so many differences, and on the other hand, it is also a Eligible goal that the owner has the opportunity to have all the owners in a normal business. So we, for our part, support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-120	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Sándor Font, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-03-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We agree with the presentation by Balázs Győrffy, and we want to support it. I think you'd like to clarify a delicate issue. It is well known that the land has been launched under the programme for farmers and that public land is already being launched, and it is expected that about 350 thousand hectares of agricultural land will fall into the hands of Hungarian farmers. At the same time, we also know that since 1996-1997 the government has managed in a very diverse manner with public land, and as a result, there have been situations, especially the situation before 2010, when the government of that time leased these public areas, gave a significant advantage to the current tenants. This means that, after the establishment of a higher level of rent in 2010 under the scheme for farmers, farmers who farm in these public fields after 2010 will pay a higher rent compared to their fellow farmers in the form of a lease before 2010. Now, both the land in the form of public land before 2010 and the land in the form of leases to farmers after 2010 will be advertised, so they will be owned by a Hungarian private person. And this is where the question raised by Balázs Győrffy's motion is that, in the contracts proposed by the current government after 2010, it is already stipulated in lease contracts that the rent may be reviewed every two or three years for the owner, in this case for the Hungarian State. However, this is not true of contracts concluded before 2010 and there is no such condition. Now, if these public fields are privately owned, then there will be owners who will have access to land with a lease and those areas that were rented to farmers after 2010, the new owner will have the opportunity to review and initiate the setting of the rent at market prices every two or three years. But the future owners who will be owners of the land leased before 2010 and the tenant wants to maintain the rental relationship, i.e. want to farm it, the new owner cannot initiate a change in rent. This large-scale discrimination is proposed by the motion of our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy, and we believe that this is correct. Of course, this will lead to another question, the review of the rental relationship between the individual and the individual in the meantime. Our experience is that individuals conclude a lease agreement between themselves for a minimum period of five years, because this is the period for which the owner is not obliged to pay personal income tax from the rental income. It is therefore common for farmers and owners to conclude this contract between themselves for five years or longer. This amendment provides an opportunity here, also in the case of a contract concluded for five years or longer, for the parties concerned to settle their ranks and see whether market conditions may dictate otherwise. [[16.10]] It is well known to everyone that there was a significant increase in land leases between 2010 and 2014, inter alia, due to the fact that everyone wanted to settle the land ownership issue and the lease relationship until the moratorium in 2014. As a result, lease contracts have been concluded for a very long time and where the possibility of a review of the rental price has not been resolved in the meantime, this bill also opens this. It is a guarantee that the Chamber of Agriculture, among the parties, first makes a proposal as to what they consider the market price in that area, in that county, in that part of the county, to be a type of land of such magnitude and quality as the change in the lease agreement is about. This, we hope, is a decisive direction for the parties concerned, the owner and the farmers, so that they do not go above this claim. And as it can be seen from the law that if this does not happen, that is to say that the offer made to one of the parties is not acceptable and that the directional land lease offer to the agricultural chamber is not accepted, then it is certainly the case. In our experience so far, the court has never awarded a rent higher than the average market price in that county. Technically, it will be a pre-court step for the Chamber of Agriculture to present this guide price. Thus, we feel that the possibility of negotiating the land's rental prices and facing the relevant price will at the same time bring the owner and the farmer to a common denominator. The proposal is therefore supported by the Fidesz fraction. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-03-122	I now give the floor to Gábor Bellozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-11-03-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, let's just say that Fidesz is doing nothing but selling out the future of the countryside, preparing for a betrayal that is simply unforgivable, by playing state-owned land through these auctions to friends, primarily for speculation and investment. And at the end of this, the goal is for these new owners to be able to sell these lands with huge profits, large profits, even to foreign owners. We know this from no other place than the statements of the Fidesz ministers and State Secretarys, who first justified the reason for this land auction, why it should be done in such a hurry, because the land law will fail in Brussels; and if the land law fails in Brussels, then foreigners can come and buy the Hungarian land. Fidesz doesn't do this by keeping the land in state ownership, because the state can't be obliged to sell the land to anyone, so it protects the Hungarian land from being held abroad by at least the remaining 380 thousand hectares of ploughing left, but simply sells it out to the friends. That this is for investment purposes, so for speculation, nothing can prove better than this bill itself. That puts the point on the "I." What is this bill about, ladies and gentlemen? It's about the fact that, as long as it was public property, no one cared what kind of rent he had. While I say the largest landowners, Mr. Simicska used Zsolt Nyerges, the Mezor, or Mr. Csányi, tens of thousands of hectares, paying the state a few hundred forints per golden crown, or even less, it was all right - our oligarchs, then let us support them. Now that it turns out these oligarchs aren't all as good friends of the Fidesz as they used to be, and they had a fight with, say, Mr. Simicska, so obviously this needs to be changed. But, of course, there is also a loophole in the system, because what we have not talked about here will come with other proposals in this series, as sample farms will come. Now, obviously, the oligarchs who stand in line to continue to secure the backland of Fidesz and then get out of the land auction as a model economy, there will not matter the size of the estate, but they will be able to continue their activities outside the relevant laws if the system is served. This proposal is about those who do not get into this category and thus auction their land, then, now that they have new owners who do not farm on it... So no one should fall for the fidesz lie that this is about getting local family farmers to land. [[Sándor Font's intervention.]] they'll manage it here - why would it be interesting how much the rent is? ! No, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the tenants remaining here, and the only interesting thing here is to make sure that the new owner gets his money, because it pays the Fidesz for what I don't know - I leave it to everyone's fantasies. Obviously, in this debate on this day of debate, which was about this, several Fidesz MEPs said for a reason that they were elected individual representatives in an individual area. Perhaps there is some causal connection here that they would like to obtain in return some favors that will help their individual representatives re-elect these newcomers, say, with the support of a village day, say, with favors that will come to the signatory arches with new signatures, and then people can be led to vote. Well, maybe it's just my malicious assumption, but the thing is, in the previous elections, we've seen it before in connection with the community service program. And we've seen similar things about their land lease system. So I have no reason to believe that this is not about continuing this process. So the new owners, who for 20-30 years, or even 38 years, are not going to farm, but the tenants are going to farm there, and now suddenly it's important what the rent is. Therefore, a law is submitted so that the rent can be increased, and so the new owner, when he takes on the loan with a very favourable interest rate, thus the public-funded loan to become a private owner, can effectively repay this loan in large part from this rent. So, in order not to have to invest too much in making him an owner, but this, as such a feudal favor, will be given to him in the context of Fidesz government or parliamentary decisions. [[Sándor Font: Bidding...]] Yes, my honourable fellow Member, the bidders. Well, I wonder how many people are going to bid on lands they can't farm for 20 or 30 years. They're either investor speculators, or you told them that information. [[Robert Zsigó: Tenants!]] That this will be worth it to them. Here is this presentation, and we will see what proposals will follow later. We have heard from my colleague Font about things before 2010. Yes, indeed, as I mentioned, before 2010, for example, we saw that the Oligarchs near Fidesz, when they received the land belonging to the 12 state farms, which of these 380 thousand hectares amounted to about 160,000 hectares, received these lands almost free or with very low rental rights. And once again, it's not about anyone else who's gonna be selected here, who's gonna have this raised here, and who's gonna be exempt from it as a model economy. I could say that this part actually hurts their heads, and we don't have much to worry about, because at least now they're gonna pay the rent they have to pay for it, but this law has other effects. After all, not only does he want to settle the leases and rents between the state and the oligarchs, but he is also involved in all civil acts, so he will also be involved in the leases of private individuals and not just private individuals, but also private individuals to social enterprises, and there are serious problems here. As we have talked about this many times here, and I have said it many times, and I would like to state our position here too, it is certainly not certain that it is a fortunate situation that has developed in Hungary that there are very many, typically large farms. [[16.20]] So it is possible to think about how to help as many viable family economies as possible, to create, to thrive, and to what kind of integration and cooperative they can be helped to be viable and competitive. However, this is not the case, but it is that if we interfere in these rental relationships and suddenly everyone starts raising the rent overnight, then, for example, we can easily put the domestic dairy sector on two shoulders, which is still in a very difficult situation. After all, I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members to the fact that more than 80% of dairy cattle farmers are social enterprises. Who don't have their own land. They all rent these lands, and now that the milk quotas in the EU have stopped, there are milk prices that they can't survive with. Well, here we are constantly arguing at agricultural committee meetings about how we can help these dairy farmers to survive, so that the domestic dairy sector can survive this situation. Now, all it takes is for the rents to rise four to five times suddenly, so we must have laid them on two shoulders. I think that there may be some, even my ill-meaning assumptions, well-meaning thoughts behind this bill, but it is not properly thought out. Because, my fellow Member, Győrffy, this is going to cause a great deal of damage. Of course, the aim may be to destroy these companies, since they have announced that they want as many family farmers as possible, and they want to do so by beating up the social entrepreneurs who are there, only by eliminating jobs. The very few still existing family jobs, income opportunities in villages that are still available, are not being created, because there will not be a new one. And before anyone thinks that behind the whole fidesz distribution of land, there will be a lot of -- what they say -- 102 thousand family farmers getting land, I would remind everyone that it's playing with numbers again. There are 102,000 farmers, many of whom are not family farmers or even farmers, but have completed a gold-cage course, and then they have a certificate, and from now on they can go as prosecutors, fidesz local government representatives, or hospital directors, and bid for land. Obviously, we're gonna see a lot of these. There is one more thing that I would like to draw attention to, that is, the lands that are large enough to be managed on - so it is not only that I complement the existing economy with the small lands, because we did not attack them either, there is no problem with them, that the 1-2 hectares are sold by the state - but my problem is that the areas over ten hectares are not true that they can go to 100,000 people, because there are 9,000 local map numbers, which are over 10 hectares. And this 9,000 landmark number is 320,000 acres. So 84 percent of all ploughing fields are 9,000 local map numbers, so to a maximum of 9,000 farmers or investors - let's stick to the investor, because others rent it - this land can go if everyone will buy just one local map number. But obviously you won't, so we can split this in half. So here, in fact, the Fidesz will do nothing but, as a glass bead, one or two hectares will allow people to buy you, even at a discount, but what is really a big business, the larger lands, will go to 1 or 2 thousand people. It's also, as I said, with an investor's intention, because they're not going to be the ones to farm it. And in return, the state loses the opportunity to make a meaningful contribution to the rural life, to impose conditions, in substance, with a good rental system, from which it would be possible to create a prospects for growth, jobs and rural life again in public lands. I consider this to be a sin, my honourable fellow Member Győrffy, for which neither the original proposal nor such additional proposals should be assisted. I understand that the farming community you represent has some powerful farmers who want to get to the ground, and there's a circle of investors or a fidesz moonyard that needs to be paid, and now you're willing to take this. And what hurts even more is that Vice-President James, who, on the part of Magos, who had worked only for the interests of farmers, is now using farmers to provide them with the interests of Fidesz with the sale of Hungarian land and the sale of the future of the countryside. I find this quite amazing and sad. Of course, we will not assist or support this proposal. And even if this proposal were good in itself, so if it were only for example that prices before 2010 could be reviewed in the existing rental system, it would be possible to talk about fixing this somehow, whether the previous rents were very low and if they were well, whether these farms needed to support them by setting very low rents for them. We could have a sensible debate about it, but since this is not the case, but because this is an addition to this land speculation, we need to make this land business even more profitable with a bill, so it is quite clear, it is not a question that - I think it is a shame that we are discussing it here at all - we will not support this. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for listening.
u2015-11-03-124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask the KDNP faction if anyone wants to comment. I don't see any applications. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-11-03-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! If only one question could be asked for this short little amendment, then it would be why now. And if we answer that question honestly, we will get the answer to what is behind it. We had this debate in committee, I do not want to repeat it, nor do I agree to the question of what Jobbik thought of state land sales, because we had an eight-hour parliamentary debate, although I would like to note that it was not thanks to the government or the government, but also the opposition representatives who had to collect signatures to talk about why the state wanted to privatise one of its last natural resources, its national assets, the agricultural land. But going back to the proposal, it certainly sounds good for everyone to hear that the owners, Hungarian farmers and local family farmers are finally getting a fair market price for their land. It's just that the question arises, as I started, as to why we are now receiving such an amendment from the Chamber of Agriculture. It is quite clear, even my fellow Member Győrffy, that the main reason for this was the privatisation of public land, since these leases also contain ridiculous amounts in respect of the lease contracts concluded before 2010. It's a fact. We have heard this many times in Parliament, and they have rightly criticized the governments before you by renting these lands for such ridiculous amounts. But since then, five years have passed, you have been watching for five years that the Hungarian state loses billions of dollars a year to rent its own land with such ridiculous rents. So, if we answer this, why now? We have to start by saying that if we face this question honestly and answer that if we are already here, then tell me from the government's side how many thousand or hundreds of thousands of hectares the state has concluded such an unfavorable contract in the last twenty years, how many billion forints have the Hungarian people lost and who is responsible for it. Of course, I know that your minister, Minister Lazarus - I think he also meant this - when he said that when there is socialist management, socialist management is stealing the country when it is fidesz, and then it is fidesz, but it would be good to see concrete things beyond the words, because this proposal is also a confession of this statement. There would be accountability, and it would turn out that for these billions, what the Hungarian taxpayers and the Hungarian people have failed, who are responsible for them and what they will be accounted for. [[16.30]] So with your intention, it would be possible to agree with you to the fullest extent, if this had arrived on time, and, let us say, when you and your predecessors played out the big public economies for their own interests, they would have been so fair that the landowner - then the Hungarian state - would have obtained a fair rent on a market basis. Interestingly, they didn't think of that at the time. Now that they're privatised and presumably fat bites are intended for their own circles, they've become immediately important and immediately interested in this amendment. So I would like to reply to these, if Mr Secretary of State has returned, how the FM has calculated, when this amendment seems to support how many billion forints the Hungarian state has lost so far because of your negligence, your omission and your misrepresentation. I made it here for the last 25 years before he took it completely on himself. These are the answers we're looking for. By the way, in the amendment, I will propose to the Jobbik fraction that we abstain, because I am aware that there will also be local farmers among the applicants, who, for absolutely understandable reasons, are applying for these land, because once the opportunity has been given, and the state will be free of its land for an unprotected reason, why not apply if it meets the conditions and receives this land, whether it is fidesz or completely no matter what political orientation the farmer has, if he receives it, I will also say that he should be entitled to the market rent. So I agree with this side of the story. However, with the underlying intention and, above all, with why this proposal is being presented now, and because of the reasons I have just outlined, I cannot encourage my fellow Members with full chest width and a good heart to support it. That is why we will decide to abstain on this issue. I would ask you to answer the questions asked in substance, because I believe that this is how we would find those responsible and answers, how, how, in the last 25 years, Hungarians can look at the fact that, while the Hungarian state has completely disposed of its national treasures, its national economy - and I have included the land fortunes and the public economies - its public debt has increased to an unprecedented extent. These two processes are contradictory in themselves, and we are sure that the names of those responsible here are also necessary. So if I get answers to my questions, it will also be in a clearer position, and perhaps it will also make sense to the amendment. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-11-03-126	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-11-03-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That the LMP won't support it, that's for sure. I can fully assure the pro-government Members and the rapporteur Member that we find this very difficult to digest. It made their situation a little better, because I can tell you honestly that during the introduction and introduction, and when Mr. Secretary of State responded to the introduction, I was still in a state of rage to say the whole introduction without mentioning the land privatisation. But Congressman Font corrected this mistake, and at least he told me straight what it was about, which I thank you for, because it really seemed like we were talking about something else. No, this is a matter of land privatization and its effects, and it is obviously necessary to talk about it accordingly. Firstly, I would like to ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, with respect, not to be offended or to take personally what I am saying. I'll tell you the same thing I just told Congressman Sutch. I don't think it's very cool for my own Chamber to legislate for the organization I run in order to generate revenue. It says here specifically 50/A. § (1) that they want the amount of the market rental fee to be determined by the Chamber by an expert estimate, so first of all they regard themselves as experts, and they want you to be in this full monopoly, and then it turns out that you will issue this certificate for reimbursement, what is realistic. So they're basically trying to get a stable income for themselves for the next period. This is not very cool, I think, nor is it that if I represent the interests of my own chamber, as Congressman Szűcs did earlier with Motív, that he has written around in the legislation who can be appointed by the government, and he has hardly written in it that his name begins with an M and ends with an Ohos. Here you have done so much more directly that you specifically named the Chamber of Agriculture and did not describe the fact that only chambers in the country can apply for it. Overall, let me respond to something that has not been raised here, but Mr Győrffy has said it several times, which is an important question. He's asked me a few times about the land privatisation, how can it be that as a farmer, I feel good about it, and at the same time as a politician, I don't feel good about it. This question is important because it comes up specifically here, and we need to talk about the same thing. What he hasn't understood in the past is how long this debate has been going on, that I am primarily Hungarian and a second or third-time farmer, and because I am Hungarian, I feel as a betrayal and theft of what they are doing to state lands. However, as a farmer, which is my many identities after fatherhood and a lot of other things, I understand that some farmers are happy about this. However, in a somewhat demagogic way, you have repeatedly said to the opposition that they are anti-farmers in their view that they do not support land privatisation. It is important that you understand that if I were such a demagog, I would now say to you that you are also anti-farmers, because at this moment you are trying to protect the interests of farmers against the interests of farmers, even though you are not the Chamber of Land Owners. So they don't have two million members and all the landowners are their members, but only the 100,000 or 102,000 farmers who rent land and try to produce it. Your Chamber should represent these farmers, and compared to that, you will bring them here so that these farmers will have to pay more for the land lease fee. Obviously, in this case, I think the Chamber is carrying out anti-farming activities, since it aims to protect the interests of the 1.9 million differences with this proposal, which is between landowners and producers. The most important question was asked by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, why now. Obviously, the presence and temptation of land privatisation in the context of the legislation is clearly felt, as it is clear that this is behind all of this. My fellow Members have said that, and although they have not stated the fact of the status of unfaithful treatment in the practice of using state land to date, it could have been said, but it is quite possible to say what happened, which is interesting because I am not so extreme in this regard. The fact that the state could give land to agricultural operators at a reduced rate would not be a sin against God if it imposed conditions on it to create so many jobs, how it would contribute to production and what we expect. The problem was, he gave it away for pennies when he didn't expect anything and didn't have to do it. Most opposition parties saw this.In 2013, I was not a Member of Parliament, the Good God rewarded me for seeing this House from a distance, then my predecessor, Szilvia Polish, submitted several requests and requests for information to find out how much the dirty twelve paid and how they rent land from the Hungarian state. He couldn't have heard it once, he didn't get the answer, and he should have been in court to find out what happened to the 148 thousand acres that the first Orbán Cabinet had played. But obviously, just to be fair, this could be investigated in all other privatisations. At the same time, if we are looking at this, then the question arises again: if this system has been good so far and you have not thought of providing conditions for public land, then what could have caused this very serious change of perspective, and we are back in the field privatisation. Because the situation is simple. My enemy can't tell me that I would have said too many times that only Fidesz people would win. From the beginning, I acknowledge that a number of local farmers will certainly try some small land here, although I share my fellow Member, Gábor Harangozó's view that the majority, the large areas, will certainly go to a narrower circle of beneficiaries. At the same time, it is quite like, I don't know, in the toy caves you have reserved by dear Mr. Vajna, that the bank always wins. If the Magos can buy the land you rent, that's all right, that's where it's going. If by chance someone else buys it or a farmer gets it, or if a seedy land in which he is not the tenant has been looked out, it can be made impossible or in any case raise the fee. Obviously, that's what worries me morally that he hasn't bothered you so far. To tell you the truth, I didn't understand earlier either in the Hungarian legal order how these land lease fees could be fixed, since my fellow Member Győrffy knows that, and I think he himself gave the Irish example of how the lease contract is concluded for years. I remember when, in the mid-1990s, my father made the land-benefit payment, that I think the value of the wheat on the stock market was determined by the amount of land-benefit and a lot of it, and it was foreign to fixed amounts. So obviously, this has not been a good system up until now, and it has so far been a hidden concern from this point of view. So the reason I do not dare to say that we are voting against is because the situation is realizing that a number of Hungarians, I almost said that they were in the interest of Hungarian landowners, that for many years land lease contracts may have been concluded at a low price. [[16.40]] paragraph 2 of the Act states that they want the amount of the market rent to be determined by the Chamber by means of an expert estimate, so first of all they consider themselves as experts, and they want you to be in this full monopoly, and then it turns out that you will issue this certificate in return for reimbursement, what is realistic. So they're basically trying to get a stable income for themselves for the next period. This is not very cool, I think, nor is it that if I represent the interests of my own chamber, as Congressman Szűcs did earlier with Motív, that he has written around in the legislation who can be appointed by the government, and he has hardly written in it that his name begins with an M and ends with an Ohos. Here you have done so much more directly that you specifically named the Chamber of Agriculture and did not describe the fact that only chambers in the country can apply for it. Overall, let me respond to something that has not been raised here, but Mr Győrffy has said it several times, which is an important question. He's asked me a few times about the land privatisation, how can it be that as a farmer, I feel good about it, and at the same time as a politician, I don't feel good about it. This question is important because it comes up specifically here, and we need to talk about the same thing. What he hasn't understood in the past is how long this debate has been going on, that I am primarily Hungarian and a second or third-time farmer, and because I am Hungarian, I feel as a betrayal and theft of what they are doing to state lands. However, as a farmer, which is my many identities after fatherhood and a lot of other things, I understand that some farmers are happy about this. However, in a somewhat demagogic way, you have repeatedly said to the opposition that they are anti-farmers in their view that they do not support land privatisation. It is important that you understand that if I were such a demagog, I would now say to you that you are also anti-farmers, because at this moment you are trying to protect the interests of farmers against the interests of farmers, even though you are not the Chamber of Land Owners. So they don't have two million members and all the landowners are their members, but only the 100,000 or 102,000 farmers who rent land and try to produce it. Your Chamber should represent these farmers, and compared to that, you will bring them here so that these farmers will have to pay more for the land lease fee. Obviously, in this case, I think the Chamber is carrying out anti-farming activities, since it aims to protect the interests of the 1.9 million differences with this proposal, which is between landowners and producers. The most important question was asked by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, why now. Obviously, the presence and temptation of land privatisation in the context of the legislation is clearly felt, as it is clear that this is behind all of this. My fellow Members have said that, and although they have not stated the fact of the status of unfaithful treatment in the practice of using state land to date, it could have been said, but it is quite possible to say what happened, which is interesting because I am not so extreme in this regard. The fact that the state could give land to agricultural operators at a reduced rate would not be a sin against God if it imposed conditions on it to create so many jobs, how it would contribute to production and what we expect. The problem was, he gave it away for pennies when he didn't expect anything and didn't have to do it. Most opposition parties saw this.In 2013, I was not a Member of Parliament, the Good God rewarded me for seeing this House from a distance, then my predecessor, Szilvia Polish, submitted several requests and requests for information to find out how much the dirty twelve paid and how they rent land from the Hungarian state. He couldn't have heard it once, he didn't get the answer, and he should have been in court to find out what happened to the 148 thousand acres that the first Orbán Cabinet had played. But obviously, just to be fair, this could be investigated in all other privatisations. At the same time, if we are looking at this, then the question arises again: if this system has been good so far and you have not thought of providing conditions for public land, then what could have caused this very serious change of perspective, and we are back in the field privatisation. Because the situation is simple. My enemy can't tell me that I would have said too many times that only Fidesz people would win. From the beginning, I acknowledge that a number of local farmers will certainly try some small land here, although I share my fellow Member, Gábor Harangozó's view that the majority, the large areas, will certainly go to a narrower circle of beneficiaries. At the same time, it is quite like, I don't know, in the toy caves you have reserved by dear Mr. Vajna, that the bank always wins. If the Magos can buy the land you rent, that's all right, that's where it's going. If by chance someone else buys it or a farmer gets it, or if a seedy land in which he is not the tenant has been looked out, it can be made impossible or in any case raise the fee. Obviously, that's what worries me morally that he hasn't bothered you so far. To tell you the truth, I didn't understand earlier either in the Hungarian legal order how these land lease fees could be fixed, since my fellow Member Győrffy knows that, and I think he himself gave the Irish example of how the lease contract is concluded for years. I remember when, in the mid-1990s, my father made the land-benefit payment, that I think the value of the wheat on the stock market was determined by the amount of land-benefit and a lot of it, and it was foreign to fixed amounts. So obviously, this has not been a good system up until now, and it has so far been a hidden concern from this point of view. So the reason I do not dare to say that we are voting against is because the situation is realizing that a number of Hungarians, I almost said that they were in the interest of Hungarian landowners, that for many years land lease contracts may have been concluded at a low price. 1.40 p.m. In many cases, we know for sure from information in local regions that such cartels have been made, that the 3-4 people who rented land artificially kept the land lease prices down so that they would not have to pay much. The fact that this is the subject of the Hungarian Parliament, I think it is correct, but the fact that this whole topic comes up in the context of agricultural land privatisation, and it is obviously wrapped up in that robe, as if it were not for this purpose, is false, because it is obviously about the beneficiaries who are going to buy land now, what they have looked for themselves, how they can get in a better position, and how they may be able to make impossible the lives of producers who now may still have the right to rent. When the opposition claims that the country's territory has become the scene of a fidesz gang war or a mafia war, there is always a conflict with Simicska-Nerges interest, which has turned out to have a relatively high level of publicity between the Prime Minister and this entrepreneurial medium. So if someone's not nice to us now, we're gonna find this opportunity to make it impossible. All this to get back to that. So I'm hoping in a six-month period that we can stop the entire land heist that's about to take place, somehow by the Constitutional Court or by any other means, we can make it impossible for this land privatization to happen, and then, if it's done, let's get back to that. I suggest that we bring it back then and talk about the fact that if the government thinks that it is in the best interest of the landowners than it is in the interests of the farmer to be able to farm on good terms, then let us talk about it. Now, under such conditions, let us not talk about it, nor put a chamber in a monopolistic position under any conditions. For this reason, we too are on the side of the residence, recognizing that there is an old problem, but completely shocked at the fact that they dare to bring it here in such a relatively impertinent way in the middle of land privatisation, which is why we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-03-128	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it's up to the independent congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2015-11-03-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, You can see how many readings such a short presentation has. I will not surprise you if we are clearly on that party and I would like to announce and inform you that we cannot support everything that my colleague Győrffy has put forward here. I think the situation is quite clear, and it is not worth denying to you that it is a clear story that those who are now able to obtain land in a preferential way by you will be able to create a situation for them that they can, by the way, feel free to think that the investment will be made in abundance by the possibility of a significant increase in rent. Not just any lot you're thinking about, because you don't get away with it so easily, let's just mention it now, or once again, that, yes, you want to put 380,000 hectares of land on the market now, and that's already happening, and 41,000 of which are less than 3 hectares each, but the real lot is the 10,000 estates, which is a much larger area than these 3 hectares. The deception is, of course, that what you are selling or to whom you are offering, and you say that anyone could have access to this, compared with one percent of the country's population, and within that, a significant minority, will be the owner of the land in the next period. Of course, what you want to sell is, in addition to the fact that, otherwise, by circumventing Parliament and adopting it with a two-thirds law itself, you are doing what you are doing unconstitutionally, while you cannot ignore it, at least I cannot ignore it, but you will have to account for that part of it. So the point is that they provide a very narrow minority with an opportunity to actually benefit some of the large estate bodies. In addition to the people who have been mentioned, of course, there are others who are all your friends. I would like to add one aspect here that, in addition to the fact that you are drawing such a political advantage from this, there is another serious issue that came up in the debate on the budget, that they have left behind a significant item, hundreds of billions of forints, where this revenue will come from. At the time, you refused to tell me this, and now it is clear that this revenue is needed. Last week or perhaps this week, it was announced that the sale of OTP shares was being made, while the sale of land is taking place, with significant revenue from the state, while we still have very little knowledge of its use. I would add that I, who have been engaged in development policy over the past period, also include the fact that your lie, that all the funds could be called down, must be financed because of this, of course, it is not true, and this revenue will be necessary to finance improvements that the European Union cannot, does not want, and is not willing to finance. But for now, let's put that aside. The point is that you are selling substantial state assets, and in this case, we have this land, and this package, which you are putting on the market in this way. Of course, it must also be said that the consequence of this is, or it follows, that the soothing sentences mentioned by you, that it should be farmed, or that it should be the owner who is farming on the ground, are not true. This draft law, this amendment, honourable Member, which you have just tabled here, proves that it is about paying off the income for the people you are receiving, or that you should be able to repay this increase in rent as soon as possible, and you should be talking about this admission. You have to admit the truth, that's what this story is really about. I would also like to add that many people wanted and thought that one of the important conditions and backgrounds behind the entry of Hungarian agriculture into the international market are those farms where there are communities with a very high production culture, and it is clear here that the sales you are now making are virtually eliminating this, among other things, and that thousands of jobs are being threatened by the activity you are doing here. Of course, this is also supported by the proposal of the Member, and so, slowly, everything you are doing here in this family is building on each other. Accordingly, of course, this bill, which you have tabled, cannot and should not be supported. I think that you should also consider this, and I would like to ask you, Mr President, to withdraw it rather than cause any more damage. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-130	Now for the two-minute comments. I give the floor first to Congressman Zsolt Legény. [[16.50]]
u2015-11-03-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Bellozó said, the Hungarian Socialist Party strongly rejects this bill. We also have a procedural and substantive problem with the bill. As Mr President mentioned, I have only a two-minute opportunity now, so I would like to briefly express our procedural concern in this regard. Unfortunately, we have been accustomed to the fact that the government has repeatedly used the technique of not submitting a bill to the House, but that it is done in the form of a motion from individual representatives to one of the pro-government representatives. The point is that they are thus avoiding a lot of conciliation procedures that are otherwise required by the legislative law in relation to legislative proposals, drafts of laws that the government would submit. That's what we're dealing with here. We do not understand why this bill came in the form of a motion from individual representatives and why it was not submitted by the government. We believe that the government's intentions are being formulated here. Again, we don't understand why this is being submitted. As I said, unfortunately, we have experienced this very reverse procedure several times. We think it's false on the part of the government. As I have said, this is our procedural objection, and I would like to present the content objections within a longer timeframe in a normal comment. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-03-132	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict in two minutes.
u2015-11-03-133	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to make the technical request to Mr Balázs Győrffy that I would like to thank him for his response during the debate. I see you're taking notes very diligently so you can answer. It would be very good if you did not say these things at the end of the debate so that we could have a way to react. I am concerned that neither the Secretary of State nor the congressman has the little red light on. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to give us a chance to respond by responding to us. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-134	Secretary of State Márton Bitay has spoken. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-03-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Lords! Dear House, I'm not the author, but obviously I have an opinion, and we're here to talk. I would like to add a few points to what the Members have said. In terms of numbers, we talk about each other all the time. It may not be clear to opposition representatives how many hectares and how many local numbers are involved. I'd like to set this straight once and for all, if you'll allow me not to have so many misconceptions. I didn't want to burden you with a lot of numbers, Congressman, but I see we can't avoid this, so I suggest we go through it. Under 3 hectares, there are 35 800 hectares that we sell, and that's 31,000 geographic numbers. I don't want to break it down too small, so I'm going to tell you this next step. Between 3 and 50 hectares, there are 120,000 acres, and almost 9,000 landmarks. Everything else is above this. I would just like to point out, as an example, that we have 49 properties between 150 and 200 hectares and 26 units above 200 hectares. But let's talk about the acre. Over 200 hectares, there are a total of 6,000 units that we've just announced. I'm sorry. The size of the area behind the total number of more than 200 hectares is just over 6 000 hectares, between 150 and 200 hectares there are 8 000 hectares, which we are publishing, and between 50 and 100 hectares we are still in the same position as the 48 000 hectares. So I would like to say to you that the majority of this land-selling programme - and this is also a reaction to Mr Bellozó's statement - is indeed made up of smaller areas. They're right, the biggest number is under 3 hectares, but if I look at the total number of hectares, we're about halfway across all the areas that we sell under 50 hectares. It is important to emphasise this because I think - but follow me, I accept if we disagree - they are not large scale. These are not large-scale sizes, either in terms of quantity or number of units. That's what I wanted to fix. How many people get land from this program, Congressman Bellozó asked. This is not about the proposal, but let us also respond to these questions. There are 102,000 farmers in Hungary. You really can't get all 102,000 land, because according to the rules of the Land Traffic Act - which you didn't vote for; your souls are on it! - local farmers are given priority, and where there is no state land that we sell, the local farmer is obviously unable to buy, either on the bid or in the order of pre-emption. I can't tell you how much territory this is, but if we look at the location of the state land we're selling now, we can see that at least at county level they can be located quite well. And if we look at this, we're going to find out that in a large part of the counties, there is no state land that we're selling right now. So his statement is politically very good, and it is true that he will not get all the 102,000 farmers' land, but his waist will not get it because there is no agricultural land for sale there, and not because anyone would be excluded or excluded from anything. I see a contradiction in what you said. I would ask the question: what is the problem with the fact that if there are large plants that used large areas in one, and now we are saying that they will no longer use them, at least let us do an experiment, or at least try to secure ownership for local farmers, plus give them the opportunity - taking into account Mr Győrffy's proposal - to pay a market rent until he can make use of it? I'm sorry, but I don't understand what the problem is. I can also quote a number of Parliament's speeches from you, where you are critical of the fact that these large companies have received public land leases at a lower price. Now we say that we have what we had, let's take a step, and let's say that at a large plant with the option of renting land at a price, we do not at least allow this opportunity to remain, but we have a market relationship, and on the other hand we say that we should try land ownership, at least property from these plants to family businesses, or rather to give it to local farmers at a public auction. From this point of view, I do not understand why it pains you that Congressman Győrffy's proposal gives you the opportunity to raise these rents to market level. One more important thing about numbers. We're always lost in detail, but it's very, very important. You're right, there are people who have a land use contract in decades. But the vast majority will not have a land use contract in decades! On the one hand, someone who has a living contract, a natural person, and can buy these areas. On the other hand, there are those who would like to buy land, but so far they have not been able to, and soon their lease will expire. I'm not saying it's a big deal in any case, but the lease agreement for former tenants is up. We will have many, tens of thousands of hectares of lease contracts, more precisely not ours if they are sold. In 2018, 2019, and then, if I remember correctly, in 2022, there will be another big pack, then in 2029 there will be another big one, and then almost all of it will be gone. I would like to respond to Mr Sallai in the sense that 148 thousand are not the 12 state economies. You mentioned that Fidesz privatized 148 thousand hectares at the time. That's not 148 thousand acres, dear congressman, but a little less than 80,000 hectares. The 148 thousand hectares are well fixed in you, but that is not the number, but the sum of the land for the 10 state farms privatized by the party of Mr Gábor Harangozó. Moreover, not all 80,000 hectares are now sold by the State, because there is an area protected and not sold by the State. So there's a big difference here. The only reason I wanted to correct this is because it's a different situation if it turns out that it's not 180,000 for a certain 12 state economies. The situation is different when it turns out that more than half of them are of less than 50 hectares. Thus, there is obviously a different aspect of the debate. I would just like to say that I do not want to generate this debate, because I am not an authentic source for the dairy sector, but large farms that are engaged in milk production are, to a large extent, renting pastures and renting national park areas. [[17.00]] Some people also rent ploughers, you're right, Congressman, I just wanted to make a little bit of a fuss about it, because it's not like every large factory with dairy cattle gives you so intensely and only gives you in that ICU and only hires you from the state. They rent a lot of land from private owners, rent a lot of land in national park fields, and I would also like to add that their lease rights, even the land sale program, are not broken. So just because he might have a change of ownership doesn't mean he's gonna break it. I would also like to respond to Mr László Varju in a very short thought that we have now found out how the budget will make a profit. It's not gonna happen, Congressman. What you're saying is that there's been a debate about this year's revenue. But this year, it's not gonna be a penny for the budget. Maybe next year, maybe by the middle of next year. But I would also like to stress for the record that the programme is not revenue-oriented. If I may say so, the revenue is almost entirely indifferent. The shoes aren't tight, the government doesn't do it because anyone needs income. It's a political decision. This is about helping family farms with land ownership. That's what this program is about, nothing else. He's not going to do it, he mentioned Congressman Varju who's buying it. Indeed, you're right. There will be an area that will expire in a long time, and if you buy it, you will not be able to do it until your lease expires. But I tried to point out that in most of these areas, most of them will expire within five to ten years, and then he will take over, and he will have the opportunity to cultivate those areas. And I don't see any evil in that, and we're probably not gonna agree again that the state says buy it, family farms, buy it, local farmers, we'll give you credit for it, and even if you can't do it tomorrow or the day after. But it's part of the whole thing, and this part of you who can't get into the area, it's gonna keep coming down over time. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2015-11-03-136	Secretary of State has launched the button press between the parliamentary benches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, who has asked for a normal word.
u2015-11-03-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I said, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support the bill. There are several reasons why we should take this position. I have already mentioned procedural issues, and now I would like to express a few thoughts on substantive issues. I'd like to split it into two parts, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the reservations that have been made within us. One of them is not really agriculture, but rather the legal aspect, I put it as a lawyer. This will in effect create a retroactive law in Parliament, as this bill will apply to rental arrangements that have been concluded in the past and that are now to be rewritten and overwritten. So we think it's extremely harmful. It is not a good thing that this House will have retroactive legislation on this subject. Therefore, once again, we cannot support this bill. The other will be a political expression on my part, but this is sensible, because we in Parliament must, in principle, be political. We absolutely do not consider it right or right that the National Chamber of Agriculture is trying to interfere with this issue. I have told you several times, we have told you several times that we believe that the Chamber of Agriculture has been completely occupied by the associate organization of Fidesz, Magos. With respect to President Győrffy's work or professional competence, but with all this, we believe that the Chamber of Agriculture is clearly under fidesz control. And we are living with the suspicion that when this fidesz-led agricultural chamber will appoint so-called experts who will set the land leases and rents, we certainly believe that we know the saying that every saint is leaning toward himself, and we believe that neither Fidesz nor the agricultural chamber is holy, but that it will be leaning towards you. We believe that Fidesz friends would be able to set appropriate rents for them, elsewhere, and in other cases, to set inappropriate rents. We therefore believe that it is particularly harmful that the National Chamber of Agriculture interferes with this issue with the proposal for an amendment of the law tabled by the Chamber President, my colleague Győrffy. So on these grounds, I would like to emphasise once again that the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this bill. And what you said, Mr. Secretary of State, was well said, Mr. Speaker, that Mr. Secretary of State held a debate, I would only like to respond to a short part of it, or I would just like to paint a thought. You mentioned that certain revenue is not missing from the budget. Maybe I understand that. However, I think I suspect that much more than HUF 300 billion in revenue will come from this for the state. I don't consider the 500-600 billion to be a god-forsaken thought, and we'll be very curious to see what the government will use this huge, hundreds of billions of dollars for, or what the fate of this will be. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-138	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in a normal time frame.
u2015-11-03-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out that, on the basis of my experience so far, there are relatively few things in which I can easily identify with Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs, but I must say that it is fair and straightforward that he responds during the debate, participates in the debate, and does not hide his opinion, as many others do. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I have some questions about what you have said. You, as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, who forgive me if I misinterpreted, but that is not what is important... - if I understand correctly, in prices determined by land privatisation, you set the prices by adding 10 percent to the value of land traffic at land offices. I don't know if I got that right in order. This is an important question because I have come up with the idea of assuming that you agree with this proposal, and on the part of the government you want to support the fact that the nearly 2 million, 1.9 or 1.8 million landowners who use their property through land leases can override it, then my question is why the Chamber should be involved. Each land lease contract shall be submitted at the land offices. Land use must be registered there when the land lease agreement is concluded. That's how they register land use, isn't it? If, every month or two months, the average prices submitted to the regional land offices are posted and the legislation states that the average price determined by the Land Administration does not need to be allocated to the Chamber of Commerce on a mandatory basis, and the landowners are prepared to be obliged to pay the Chamber. So if you agree professionally with what our fellow Member Győrffy initiated, then the question is why the Chamber should be involved; why it cannot be the data recorded at the Land Office... Another credible information such as this is that land lease agreements should be suspended by local authorities. There is also a register, and a member of the local government is concerned with their dependence. There are legitimate, acceptable sources for the Hungarian government and the Ministry of Agriculture to determine what the average land lease price is. That doesn't require the chamber and its expertise. Therefore, I do not understand why the government, on its behalf, does not go towards simplification, why it does not choose a solution if it already considers it useful, which might exempt farmers from paying expert fees. I mean, obviously that would be easier. Let me also respond, if I may, to my apologies, to the fact that in some things I am inaccurate about how much of the land is sold. In my defense, nearly a month ago I asked NFA to send me the location numbers along with their territorial data. There has been an extension in relation to the request for data, they are posted, but I still haven't received the data, even though I already have some on the NFA website. That should be my excuse for not getting the data on this. What is important, however, is that you tell us how small these areas are, and they cannot serve large-scale goals. [[17.10]] Now, the question, Mr. Secretary, is that you already know who's going to buy these things, or if you don't, how do you know that, let's say, people on thousands of hectares aren't going to buy one of these. So where's the safety of this coming from? You claim to know that this is only bought by people who farm under 10 acres. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The reason I don't like it when the government makes this argument is because you can buy more of these areas, and there's no way that even if it's mosaicd at the border of a settlement, you can't buy ten or fifteen of them, even if they're smaller. It's the small-big conflict. I fully agree with you, certainly in the opposition benches, the factions of all opposition parties have argued several times against major economies and against the amounts of support going there. So you have every right to expect us to make the situation clear, even though it is very clear. If, at the moment - in order to have a face - I don't know, the Simicska-Nerges company empire is renting something, and now it's going to buy it, I don't know, suppose, Lőrinc Mészáros's family member, that doesn't mean anything to us from the point of view of the Hungarian countryside. So that's why we have concerns about this, because it's just about making it happen - it's about putting someone who's been good to us so far, and now we're putting someone else at the expense of people who aren't friends anymore. Obviously, this is where you can say that this is a political upheaval, but I am also joining my fellow Member, Zsolt Legény, in order to allow Parliament to give a political opinion. And I apologize with all due respect for saying the 148 thousand inexactly, but believe me, if you say that you are not the dirty twelve of the first Orbán government, but the dirty ten of a previous government is in the 148 thousand hectares, it does not matter to the majority of the Hungarian countryside and opposition parties, because it does not matter to us who privatized it, what is the area that has been engaged and used at this level in practice. Thank you very much for your response to the points. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-11-03-140	Ladies and gentlemen, Balázs Győrffy applied in order of business. I'll ask what the point of order is.
u2015-11-03-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Last week on Monday in an eight-hour time frame, the land for farmers! The programme has been discussed. I have a feeling about Déjà vu. I don't think it's the land for farmers right now! The programme is being discussed, but its amendment to the earth traffic law and the Ftv. that I have submitted is being discussed. I would very much like to have your related thoughts shared with me by my fellow Members, which I would very much like to respond to, but there is still little of that. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-142	Thank you. I do not consider this a point of order, although the speaker has a point. So we will continue with the comments, and I will give the floor to Balázs Győrffy in a normal time frame.
u2015-11-03-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before my colleague Sallai accuses me of sneaking and stuff, I would like to respond to a few things, but let me try to stay on the subject. I would like to begin in this chronological order, I would like to address Congressman Bell. The congressman said that no one has ever cared how much the rent was. Congressman, certainly not you and the MSZP, because they have done absolutely nothing to touch this system. You can argue why now, but at least we'll do something about it. I can say the same to my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar. I do not recall that any opposition group or even the independent Members of the opposition came forward with a proposal on any aspect of the issue which is close to it and which intends to resolve it. My fellow Members, I have tabled an amendment, and you have not submitted anything on this subject, so we cannot be accused of not supporting a proposal that you have presented to us as a solution on this subject. We have now come up with a proposal for a solution. Why the chamber? This was said here by Mr Zsolt Legény and my colleague Mr Robert Sallai Benedek. I think that, at the moment, with every farmer in the Chamber, the public body has at its disposal an exact and extensive set of information that makes it able to take a position on market rents in some form. Why for a refund? I would like to remind the Member that the government can only hand over a task by providing funding for it, so that he can only give a public body by law, not the government, pardon, but the Parliament's task, if he also provides funding for it. I do not think that we are anti-farmers, and I would like to say this: in many cases, this protects the interests of farmers, because in many cases the market price was not a gift for some people, the market area was rented, while others appeared on the market with a very preferential credit scheme, and these preferential credit schemes were used by farmers behind their backs to raise the rent on the free market, thus pushing farmers out of the possibility of renting. I think there's a lot to say, but the fact that we're anti-host is definitely not. And in my bill, it says the market price. And I think that the presence of the Chamber in this position does not absolutely justify the fear that we are raising the market price, because the Chamber is not the landowners, but the land users, so the Chamber, the public body of the land users, has no interest in setting the market price in an abnormal way, if necessary moving it upwards, as this would limit the management possibilities of our own membership. Congressman Varju is no longer here. There's a significant increase in rent, so he's threatening me. Well, honourable Member - I am obliged to say that he is not here - if the difference between the market price and the current rent is significant, then yes, there is a significant increase in rent; if the difference is not significant, then there is no significant increase in rent; if there is no difference, then we cannot talk about any increase in rent. Let me poke him a little, 'cause I can't stop this. He said we went around Parliament. Just a week ago, or more than a week ago, we debated the land for farmers for eight hours! In contrast to the Member, who otherwise did not appear. Now he may have said the words that he considered important by his own party, at least now he took the opportunity, if he had not been interested in this topic in the past week. Dear fellow Members, I think that this is the amount of proposals that have been put forward for this amendment. One more, I'm sorry. My colleague from Sallai said why the Chamber, why so, in what form. The legislation states that the government will be given the opportunity to define the methodology of the whole procedure. This is not yet known, this legislation has not been passed, so we cannot discuss it at the moment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-03-144	I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy in a normal time frame.
u2015-11-03-145	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that my opposition fellow Members do not agree with the sale of state land, I see now that they also want to throw out a bill that, by the way, can be good for nearly two million landowners; I say this as a landowner with a hard one-and-a-half-hectare land. In 2003, when Péter Medgyessy became Prime Minister, there was a change of law. This change of law has led people to conclude contracts for five years or less for a period of less than five years suddenly over five years, usually for 10-15 years; this happened because they did not have to pay taxes on the rent. This is true to this day: anyone who enters into a land lease for more than five years does not have to pay taxes on it. Therefore, everyone has concluded long-term contracts, sometimes carried out by more sophisticated farmers after two or three years, especially in front of older people, that they should be renewed. I have complaints from a lot of old people who come to me every day about what can be done by coming to him again with the ten - year contract. One thing has never changed: the price. So the rent has never changed this far, because it has always been said that, woe, his land is very bad, the weather is very bad, everything is very bad. Obviously not all farmers behave like this, but unfortunately, many elderly, retired people in my area can no longer cultivate their land, so they rented it, and they are in such a situation. [[17.20]] I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members that, now that the proposal submitted to these people by my fellow Member finally gives me some hope that their rent will rise, the small money they can receive as a supplement to their pension should not resist it. I think that what you have talked about so far is last week's debate day, last week's debate, you can protest against it, you have filed your Constitutional Court submission, I understand, that's a lot to argue about, but it doesn't have much to do with today's proposal. In my view, today's proposal is specifically about the elderly and the landowners who, for years, have not been able to achieve an increase in their rent, and they have received the same money for 10 years or more of ad absurdum. That is why I consider the adoption of this bill, and I think that is what today's debate is about. I want us to talk about this now and not about the sale of land, because it has nothing to do with, I say again, this part of it, the nearly two million people who already own land and rented it and can't manage it, and now we have to talk about those two million people. The fact that there may be someone to buy land after that and he can get a rent is another question, but that is very few people compared to two million people. It's always more important, I think the two million who have their land, I'll say it once more, and whether it's been 10 years, 8 years or even 15 years, the rent they've received from the user of the land has not changed, and I think it's very important that this rent does change, every two years it can be revised, and every two years it's possible, only inflation or any other... - [[Interviews: Every three years.]] every three years, I am sorry that this can be increased as a result of anything else, because market processes require that sometimes this can be criticised. So I ask my fellow Members to support the bill for the benefit of Hungarian small people, Hungarian pensioners. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-146	It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-11-03-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would say to my colleague István happy that what he has put forward as an example is very good and good, but it has nothing to do with the present proposal, because if someone has concluded an unfavorable contract and placed another contract under his nose, which once again contains unfavorable conditions, he can also sign it after the adoption of this law. This legislation is about state land, it is about you now privatizing 380,000 hectares of agricultural land, and I would like to reshape this condition so that it will continue to suit you in the future. I would also respond to my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, to prevent us from being the culprits because you have not been willing to tell us here in Parliament, who, exactly, are the tenants of the state's land, the loss of this to the Hungarian state. There was József Ángyán - in 2010 - who leaked some information here about how unfavorable contracts were concluded before 2010, otherwise nothing happened. Gyula Budai, as the Commissioner for Accountancy himself, we have made these announcements to the Minister of State, Minister Fazekas, constantly bombing the various State Secretarys. This was a daily problem for us, so your failure can be measured in billions, and if we are here and have received so many numbers from Secretary of State Bitay, I would encourage you to tell us more numbers about how many hectares were then rented on such unfavorable terms and how many billions have been lost by this Hungarian state, and through this huge loss, what procedures have been launched - or as a result - and what has ended, or if there were no such procedures so far, when we can see them in the future, because this would be the real accountability. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-148	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Bajány in two minutes.
u2015-11-03-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very keen on the debate, I would like to respond to Mr Happy, a very short one or, rather, a little bit more theoretically, what he said. You were talking about a real-life situation, Congressman, when you said that a mass may occur when people with small land properties lease their land. This, let's say, is done in contracts of 5-10 years in the long term, but the rent that was fixed at the moment of conclusion of the contract is low, and today, let's say, it is adversely affecting them. Mr. Congressman, everyone has had the opportunity to appeal to the court about the fact that the rent provided for in the lease is low and that the court should apply a value-added measure in this regard. This is one of the basic institutions of civil law when we talk about renting, so there is nothing new about it yet, and I think that is in the law. Moreover, Congressman Győrffy also mentioned that if the expert appointed by the Chamber of Agriculture employs a valuation and does not correspond to someone, it is still possible to go to the court. So, speaking in English, what Mr Happy said, there is nothing new about it, since it has been possible to go to the court. Thank you.
u2015-11-03-150	I give the floor to Congressman István Happy in two minutes.
u2015-11-03-151	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that my opposition colleagues do not know the pensioners in the villages. The pensioners of the villages do not go to court, unfortunately they do not turn to court, pensioners are not prepared to carry on the contracts with the legal board, go to court and do anything else. Besides, the court case wouldn't run, maybe the little land lease they're getting. Excuse me, gentlemen, you are now two million landowners who are renting their land, speaking against the fact that there will be a sale of land here, and I do not know if hundreds of thousands of people will be able to get to the ground, and the other two million people will be speaking against it. Once again, if you knew the retirement world in the villages, you would know that these people do not go to court to raise or raise the rent for one or two hectares of their land, you will now have an opportunity to raise it every three years, this is a very important thing, I think it would be eligible for you, and you should not talk about a political debate a few days ago. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-152	I now give the floor to Gábor Harangozó István in a normal time frame.
u2015-11-03-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Even when Secretary of State was doing the numbers, I pressed the button just because it wasn't two minutes long, I'm not sure it could take two minutes. The basic question is why it is being avoided today, why this proposal has just been tabled, and that is what many of my opposition fellow Members have been pushing here. Mr. Secretary of State has betrayed himself quite a bit, and the freaking Freud has fallen out of what he has to say again, when he responded to what would happen to the dairy farms, then Mr. Secretary of State has found that it is not true that all of them are renting land from the state. Because it's obviously in your mind that we're talking about state land, which will now be bought by new investors, the new speculators, who will not farm on it, but will be hired, because they are the ones we're talking about with this proposal - right, my colleague Győrffy? - because the farmers who have rented and bought it so far will farm on it, so it doesn't matter how the rent goes. So the new investors, i.e. the speculators, who buy to be with their money, the state lands when they are bought, this is what this proposal is about, in Mr. Secretary of State's mind, and that is why this is obviously the current timing, which is why my fellow Member Győrffy submitted this now, because this is the real goal and not what my fellow Member Happy was talking about. I told you, if it were, we could have a meaningful debate about this, but it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not. This is about putting people in a position, and the conditions for this are being created nicely, step by step. [[Sándor Font: We are talking about farmers, farmers! And by the way, it's been two minutes.]] Why should I... President Font, I wasn't two minutes old, I told you. We're talking farmers. How many farmers are we talking about, my fellow Member, how many farmers are we talking about? And how many million people live in the countryside who are taking away the opportunity to create jobs for them with the consent of the state, with the help of the state? [[Sándor Font: Buy the lawyers?]] No, no, the lawyers are gonna buy it now. Well, who's gonna buy that land? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Who's gonna buy the land they're farming on for another 38 years? Young farmers? Is that what you guys do to people? And the numbers, Mr. Secretary, I can see that you weren't a mathematician, you were a lawyer, because these numbers don't go very well. I'm sorry, but I don't know how that works. I added up the numbers here. [[17 .30]] You said that over half the area is under 50 hectares. Now, let's see, you said 35 800 hectares under 3 hectares and 120,000 hectares between 3 and 50 hectares, if you add that up, that's 155 thousand hectares. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: And 210,000 are announced!]] , versus the 380 grand. It's not more than half, it's much less than half. Mr. Secretary, that's not what I was talking about. I was talking about over 10 hectares of land. You said at the committee meeting that the size of the area below 10 hectares was about 60,000 hectares. Either they weren't telling the truth, or they're not telling the truth, but then I'd ask you to come clean. I understand you skipped over elegantly. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: I won't tell you again!]] I was talking about areas below and above 10 hectares, and you were elegantly... [[Balázs Győrffy: On the subject, let me ask you!]] Mr. Secretary brought the numbers here, so I want the public to see clearly what this is all about. So how much land is under 10 hectares, and how much is over 10 hectares? Because you said last time it was 60 thousand, that if it's 380,000 acres, it's 320,000 acres over 10 acres. It's that simple math. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Thank you very much.]] Secretary of State, so my question would be if you would please answer this question. [[Sándor Font: This is not an interpellation!]] I don't know if you've brought these numbers here before. This is a general debate, honourable Members, and the general debate is about the purpose for which this proposal came before Parliament, the consequences of which are therefore to be supported or not supported, or why this proposal is at all on the table. That is the essence of the general debate. I think that's what we're talking about. [[Sándor Font: So far so good.]] Since, Mr Secretary of State, we are not only talking about public land, but also on the basis of this proposal, on the basis of all rental relationships, there may be a significant increase in land leases, and I do not think that this is going to have an impact, for example - I say once again - on dairy farms, who are in a very difficult situation without it, none of them responded to this. However, I believe that this would be part of the general debate, that such a small detail should also be clarified when we talk about such a proposal, about the consequences it will have. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-11-03-154	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also ask that we get to the point, so I would like both sides of this, before we even discuss the possibility of the Lunar Parcel on today's agenda. [[Robert Szigó: Not yet.]] I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. [[Robert Szigó: Now!]]
u2015-11-03-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Happy fellow Member, I have good news and bad news. The good news is, everything you've told me is true, and I agree with you on everything. The bad news is that this supports what I am saying, namely that the chairman of the Chamber of Agriculture does not represent his membership, the farmers with this proposal, but the landowners, of whom a significant part is not a farmer. And let me give you a lifelike example just because, as I said, I agree with you. I know what you've told me, but you know I know there's a man in Two Spider who's not going to go in to ask for advice because the price is low, he's not doing that. Now, what I'm gonna tell you is, all I've had to do so far is go to the proctor, and he said, please, I'm not gonna get the award, I'm gonna have to go to a civil suit, I'm gonna have to be higher. You say you're not doing this because you're not that litigious. Now, here's what you're gonna do next. You have to go to the same proctor because he doesn't read the Hungarian Gazette, and we both know that. After asking what to do with the land lease, then they will tell me that please go to the agricultural chamber, which has no office in Twopos, you have to go to the agricultural chamber and ask Szolnok to set the amount of this in the expert fee, how much would be authentic. But there's a fee for that, and they'll tell you. And the uncle, when we got to the point where there's a fee for having to tell the Chamber of Agriculture how much the prize is and then he'll turn back. But if you don't do this by accident, because you don't turn around, and you're very, very determined, and even though you were afraid of the lawyer, but you're going to go to Szolnok's agricultural chamber, they're going to say that we're going to find out, but it might turn into a lawsuit. Because, in the same way, it will end up in court, because the tax on land benefits pursuant to paragraph 2 of the legislation submitted says that if the landlord does not agree with the provisions of the estimate, he may, within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the estimate, ask the court to set the market lease fee. The uncle could go to the civil suit procedure and get a lawyer and go to court, and then he can go to the lawyer's office and ask for advice, and then he can go to the agricultural chamber, and they can tell him for money what the prize is, and then he can go to court. Well, it's not more lifelike for me, and it doesn't seem like it helped the man's fate. It really doesn't look like that. Compared to that, if I were a pro-government representative and if I were in your shoes, I would say that the land office would rather suspend everything and adjust it so that it doesn't have to at least run around these unnecessary circles, which I've just told you how it's going to work. So, in agreement with your concerns, and in agreement with what you have said, that this legislation represents practically the interests of the land tax, that is all true, which is why we object to it, because I am already apologizing, but if we are saying that we are anti-farmers because we do not support land privatisation, then I also say that the Chamber is anti-farm because it wants to raise the land lease fee for farmers. I would also like to thank Mr Balázs Győrffy very much for his reaction during the debate, and thank you very much for answering several points. I liked to say that the concerns about land lease fees could have been addressed earlier and did not recall any opposition that would have dealt with this. The reason why this is important - I say this to my happy fellow Member - is because it can be said in the same way that it is at least here before us now. I would add: I am not here in Parliament for 5 years, because in 5 years, anyone who knows this information that the retired uncle has a problem and cannot raise these 15 lines, which are listed here in paragraphs 1 and 2, could have written this down in the last 5 years to serve the interests of the elderly uncles. But it hasn't been important so far, and so we're talking about it now during the field privatization, because this obviously has been a bit of a motivation. Now, I wanted to say that if you look at the minutes of how LMP voted for the Land Traffic Act in 2013, which includes these sections, you will certainly have documentation that for many reasons why we did not support the adoption of this earth traffic law. Let me also say that you were also pleased to say that the Chamber will receive extensive information on market rents. How will lifelike work? And then, from here on out, they send it out to all the bar members to tell them how much he rents land for, and they tell us, and there's gonna be an average? Or what's the practice of getting it? At the land office, at the local authorities, where it's posted, I understand how it's possible, but from here on out, there are two kinds of solutions. One solution is to ask, and the other is to oblige farmers to provide information that will not serve economic interests again, but to give more information to the agricultural chamber. So that could be the solution. I would like to draw attention to one more thing in your argument. I also liked to say that, with high prices, certain large farms have raised land lease prices and have made it impossible for the small ones to obtain land benefits in a small area, even in a neighbouring area. Yes, but right now, because the price is too high, according to the legislation you've submitted, only the rent tax can go to the Chamber. Would you like to know of a tax on wages who will turn to the Chamber to be given too much by the big owner and the big economy? 'Cause it doesn't seem very lifelike again, that we're gonna be able to help the little ones get market prices, because if you were right, then we'd say yes, market prices, and pressure the big economy into not ruining the little ones. But here, I'm going to pay a rent who's going to complain that the big economy is paying me too much, and it's very hard for me to imagine that this could happen. Let me respond to one more thing, namely that you were pleased to say that you did not circumvent Parliament. So the opposition's teaming up to have a debate day, and some of them came in to argue with us, obviously it's honorable. [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] This is respectable, but that does not mean that Parliament could be involved in the decision-making process. This land that your government sells is not the property of Fidesz and the government. At the moment, the Parliament is the supreme representative of the people, so it should have been in order to approve this, by amending the National Assembly, let's say, the NFA Act, which authorizes you to do so. So I do not know which of my fellow Members made this statement, and I do maintain that they have bypassed Parliament and did not bring it to Parliament, knowing that this would not be supported by two-thirds, and it is not whether we can talk about it or not, but whether there is a mandate by Parliament for all this activity. Thank you, Mr. President. [[17.40]]
u2015-11-03-156	Ladies and gentlemen, We're out of comments, but I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Balázs Győrffy to respond to what has been said.
u2015-11-03-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are going through a rather mixed debate, where some of my fellow Members have not necessarily taken a step away from the subject, but have made a political outburst that is not closely related to it. My fellow bell-ringing Member has taken a strong lead in this. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You can count on us.]] He accuses us of doing this for speculation and suggests that the land will be bought out in the programme for farmers. Honourable Member, it is not a foreigner, for there is a reason in the legislation that it is a Hungarian citizen. You attacked this in front of the Constitutional Court, but to hear from you that we are handing over the land to foreigners is simply impertinent! Congressman, you assisted in 600... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You don't say it in the closet for nothing!]] Excuse me, Congressman. ... that they were able to conclude a pocket contract for 600,000 hectares in Hungary. If it wasn't for the Fidesz government, it would all be foreign owned. So, with all due respect, I'd like to ask you to exercise some restraint in this form, because it's not very credible. Congressman, you say farmers can't buy the land. Well, then who is it? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Farmers!]] Farmers can buy the land. Congressman, you're saying it's 102,000 people who just bought land. I don't know, do you think that's a lot? Do you know how many people filed a single application this year? You know, the one on which the area payment is claimed. 180,000! So if 78,000 more people go into the field office tomorrow, they'll get a farmer's certificate in no time. What's wrong with that? They're farmers, people who actually farm land. That's what you're involved in. Another interesting attitude is that this will be bought for speculation. Who buys it for speculation? The one who is now a farmer and expects that I can't use it for the time being, but later on, my child, my grandson, will? With this power, the one who buys the forest is performing an abnormal economic operation? You can't even use ad absurdum for 80 years! Congressman, believe me, the logic of the farmers is different from what you think, but let me not push this further. I would like to say one more thing, if you would like to talk about the programme of the farmers. Congressman, and I will say this to my fellow opposition Members, and consider whether they can support the legislative amendment if this legislation does not go through, simple people and farmers who are very sure to farm land will find it difficult to buy land in the case of land with rent constructions to which this legislation can provide a solution. So in this sense, only the capitalists can bid at all on a large pile of land without this legislative amendment. Speaking of which, my fellow Member Sallai said that the Magosian looks out of the land, which he does not rent. Now, let's stop for a second. Then didn't the Magosians win the land for the farmers' program? Then who did? Either you win, and now you don't have this position, or they didn't win, but then why did you get all hysterical about what happened earlier? Who won it now? Congressman, you told me not to give the bar a market rent. I'm waiting for an amendment to see who else can be more authentic about this. Be kind to submit this amendment. It was interesting to remain silent, perhaps my colleague Varju said that with this amendment, we want to achieve a political advantage. My fellow Member Varju, who is not present, will certainly have political benefits. Why? Because it meets the expectations and needs of the farming community. With this, let's say, his party would be hard to accuse, but let's not make that my problem. He also said - I know for a fact that this is what my fellow Member Varju said - that it is the people who are benefiting from you who are now in position. Who are these beneficiary people? The farmers? Let's just say I wouldn't accuse DK of representing or ever representing the interests of farmers, because farmers might be asking me to answer for this statement. Therefore, I have no intention of revoking this amendment. He was rather discredited about the number of jobs that would be lost in the Hungarian countryside. It decreased dramatically between 2002 and 2010, and I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, the number of people employed in agriculture. Since 2010, this has increased by 10 percent. So it's pretty untrue for you to worry about what's going to happen to rural employment. I started with him, but now I would like to close Mr Bellozó's comments on the question of dairy farms. Congressman, there's a dairy farm, or there's more, because there's obviously more. These are the first two things to be divided into two. One part rents state land, the other part doesn't rent state land if we want to talk about public land at all costs. Anyone who doesn't rent state land didn't have a chance of getting such a preferential arrangement. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's not what I'm talking about!]] By the way, he's going to say that the istóknila, so far, they've been in a preferential position, they've got preferential land, they've had a completely different cost structure, injustice! He'll be pleased with this opportunity. Someone's renting land from the state. There's someone there who rents near the market. He also says what the previous one said: "Yeah, that those who have rented land below market prices will be forced to pay a market price? Tragedy, Your Honour. Tragedy! This situation is unworthy of those who otherwise have to produce milk in such a way that they have to pay a market rent. When you made this comment, you voted only and only in favour of the previously privileged tenants, which I think you did not do the right thing. In the debate, many things were not said about my amendment, but what was said, I tried to answer. In conclusion, I would ask my fellow Members to try to support this amendment. I believe that this is in the interests of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-03-158	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/6978. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-03-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Safe food supply for the population is of primary importance and monitoring compliance with the relevant rules in all areas of the food chain is therefore of general social interest. Appropriate resources should be provided to cover the costs associated with official controls, including those involved in the food chain in addition to the State. By paying the annual supervisory fee, each undertaking which uses guarantees and services provided by the food chain supervisor shall participate in the financing of the official administrative activity. In 2015, the European Commission launched an investigation into the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. the obligation to pay a fee for daily consumer goods on the basis of an increase in the number of businesses selling daily consumer goods. In the Commission's view, the band rate confers a selective advantage on certain undertakings, potentially distorting competition, and they consider that the measure constitutes State aid. It therefore decided to suspend the application of the band rate immediately. It is important to stress that Hungary has not accepted the decision of the European Commission, and we have brought an action before the European Court of Justice, in which we asked it to annul the provision of the European Commission in relation to the suspension of the food chain inspection fee. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the band charging obligation introduced from 2015 was to make the supervisory fee more proportionate than multinational companies, as they would require greater official resources to control them. [[17.50]] On the basis of the audit experience, it is clear that the complexity of the audit entails a significant increase in the specific costs. Therefore, the differentiated charging obligation should continue to be considered as an option. Dear House, It is in the interest of all decent food chain operators, producers, producers, traders and buyers to have safe, healthy, high-quality foods on the market. On the basis of the current amendment, according to the legal obligation introduced in 2012, one tenth of the net turnover on which the original supervisory fee was imposed should also be paid by commercial sector entrepreneurs. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that operators in the commercial sector participate in the costs of official controls made in 2015. The Commission's decision suspended the obligation to pay the supervisory fee to commercial undertakings, even though the government's intention with the introduction of the supervisory fee was to achieve a proportionate and fair burden between food chain operators. Because of the Commission's decision, it is again up to the producer sector to bear the burden. In fact, the producer sector is currently required to pay administrative service fees in the application procedures in addition to the supervisory fee until such costs are incurred by commercial operators. Dear Parliament, It is important to point out that the supervisory fee is not tax revenue, but the levy on food law, which remains the revenue of the agencies responsible for food chain surveillance. The legislation does not allow the use of the supervisory fee for other purposes. The food chain monitoring fee provides the source for effective monitoring of high quality, safe and healthy food on the family table by the government organisation system. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this amendment with their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-160	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-03-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I don't know if you remember the next headlines, but I'd like to quote a few recent headlines. The salon sugar may contain traces of mouse;.. Agitated blood, chunks of meat and uncovered thinning collector at a slaughterhouse in Pest county. Recent reports on such and similar events on food safety and public health have become commonplace, and there is nothing surprising about this, as there is a great deal of pressure on the domestic food sector. New markets across the EU are being sought for products that, due to the current volatile international political and economic climate, have slipped out of their usual sales path. It is therefore no coincidence that manufacturers and distributors use all possible means, otherwise it is wrong to stay on their feet in this environment, and unfortunately this sometimes includes irresponsible behaviour. It is comforting, however, that, thanks to the successful work of the Hungarian authorities, in most cases, they discover and withdraw from circulation in a timely manner these goods, stocks, and disposals of substances that pose a risk to the general public. I would also like to express my appreciation for the work of the domestic authorities, which seems to be effective, not only on the basis of experience for the ordinary person. And, of course, the results that Nébih's staff have achieved in order to maintain the safety of the food chain are also evidence that it was the right decision to introduce a food safety oversight fee, from which large-scale controls and inspections could be financed. Unfortunately, as we have heard in the author's exposé, the European Commission was not interested in these results, and given that what seems to be a distortion of competition from Brussels is aimed at achieving a balance in our country. The food safety oversight fee, taking into account the results achieved so far, is obviously still necessary. The circumstances are not such that the resources needed for the implementation of the food chain security strategy and for food chain monitoring activities should not be provided. However, we must comply with the European Union's comments in this case. This is why the amendment is necessary, which reduces for the big ones and slightly increases the fee for smaller operators. For the sake of sustainable food safety oversight, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support the bill before us, since we can only achieve, sell and consume high-quality, safe food, thus also serving the interests of consumers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-162	I give the floor to Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-11-03-163	Thank you very much for the floor. We also consider food safety issues important, and the most important thing is that the authority should do its job on this issue, as it is very important what gets on the table of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. However, my fellow Member, István Horváth, has listed some of the articles in which we have heard the most horrifying stories. Well, we can't forget the peach seed in this matter, can we? Many people were also smiled at this question, which was linked to one of their fellow Members, or one of his family's businesses. It's a good thing we couldn't put it on the market, because the breaker didn't work, which was a very smiling point in the summer. But let's get back to the law. In the bill, we can see the usual legislative flaws of the Ministry of Agriculture, another law that had to be brought back to us, right? We have already told you, when this law was originally tabled, that it goes against EU law and that it will be returned to us. We then told you that this will not go through, that it is unnecessary to discuss it and that it is unnecessary to present it this way. Now the Union has also returned this law, since the two Directorates-General of the European Commission have also examined this Act on the Food Chain and Authority Surveillance, which is in force from 1 January, the amendment we have debated and they have indicated to us that this is not in place, since, according to Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, State aid is aid granted by Member States or through State resources in any form whatsoever which distorts competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods is not acceptable to trade between Member States. That is why, of course, once the errors are corrected and the extra tax is removed, the extra tax is abolished, which has caused problems with the regulation, so it would be even more eligible, but I think it would be much more convenient if the opposition told you that this would be against the law, so that it would not go through, then they would accept the opposition's words, sometimes they would hear the opposition's words, and they would not go through the law just for that reason as a pompous little rooster. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-164	I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-11-03-165	Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us is not worth talking about for a long time, but it is definitely worth talking about. The Jobbik makes it clear that he can't support what's in front of us. This is a step backwards for a Brussels dictatorship, a measure that would tax quasi-Hungarian small businesses and Hungarian small shops instead of the so far, which is actually exempted. [[18.00]] We understand that there is an escape route for certain flat-rate solutions, but we also see that the government and the legislator's original intention bled out in Brussels. And what is more disastrous is that, in accordance with these expectations in Brussels, they are actually extending it now, and it is okay that only for a 0.1 per cent band for small Hungarian entrepreneurs, that is, it is not okay, but it seems to be a small extension, which could have happened even in the spirit of equal opportunities. The fact is that there is no such level playing field on the Hungarian market in Hungary. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] If we are trying to find a positive outcome in this proposal in a very sweaty way, it might be that it also closes the loophole that you leave open to multi-company companies, because, in the case of the food chain monitoring fee, we have observed so far and in the past that, indeed, if a large enterprise or business chain has been able to diversify its portfolio effectively, so that it is able to dispose of its companies to suitable small units, it could essentially be exempted from the payment obligation of this type of tax. On the other hand, we see that there is no exception from here, but this no exception also means that Hungarian small business, Hungarian supplier and Hungarian company can not escape from the rate of 0.1 per cent, which is completely unacceptable in a situation with a competitive disadvantage such as the Hungarian market. There is, however, a positive trend throughout the phenomenon in a multi-annual perspective. This is that a significant part of the revenue surplus should serve only consumer or such objectives. Therefore, let us not argue with the legislator's previous correct decision that it has slightly tied these amounts. It is strange that the Union has not started to deal with this, as it has already engaged in a similar type, whether it is strapped or that the legislator intends to use such revenue for a specific purpose. But what we see in the meantime is that the whole system is incomplete not only because it does not have enough resources or the amount of resources that such a special tax type brings in is not enough, but also because it is simply impossible to examine the quantity of goods that goes into a Hungarian market. Or, in a simple street example, if anyone turns to the most popular fast food chain and buys a bag of French fries, there are at least three components of the eleven that are now in the weekly news, which are genetically modified with a strong suspicion. Whatever efforts any authority in Hungary is making, these genetically modified ingredients appear, I repeat, on a national market that is in principle trying to maintain GMO-free for itself in the long term. So what we see is that in the long term, alternative means can be used to move forward, by relying as much on Hungarian production and agricultural production as possible, by allowing Hungarian farmers and Hungarian producers to enter into public catering and children's meals in as much volume as possible. That is why it is outrageous to make a small detour, the KDNP rejection of the child's food and hunger that came up in today's interview, and that a proposal was made to eliminate child hunger because it was opposition. Not because of its professional content, not because a sane person can want to maintain children's hunger or child deprivation in Hungary. This was rejected from the KDNP part because it was an opposition proposal, which is a specific issue, particularly in the case of children, which is outrageous and outrageous. And the KDNP has expressed its rejection, which has not yet been able to hold a leading speaker for this debate. So we're dealing with some pretty amazing phenomena. Therefore, under the new proposal, I would like to say once again that we can point out as a positive point that, with the proper resolution of the portfolio, large companies can no longer fully or largely avoid the obligation to pay the food chain inspection fee. But what we see as a national party is that small shops, small businesses face an additional burden and a new burden, and we simply cannot support it, but we are fighting it with every means, since the Hungarian tax system, tax experts and the accounting profession now know more than 50 types of tax or tax-type charges, which is a record in Hungary and at regional and regional level. There are many exotic tax types among them. But what we see is that these special taxes should not be levied in this form at all. They should be prevented from passing them on at systemic level, whether it be a bank special tax or a transaction tax. Furthermore, the government should not make pacts such as those which it has managed with the EBRD, under which it commits itself to say that the banking sector is not burdened more. In this area, in the area concerned, and in the areas covered by the food chain inspection fee, it should be clarified that these large networks should be included in the public burden-sharing. This was exactly the original law, the original tax charge, we call it, to move the system towards public burdens. With this equality, which you are now bringing into the Brussels dictatorship, and the fact that the small ones are involved in the pay-per-view, this whole system is clearly moving away from public burdens, so it is unbearable by Jobbik. We cannot support this, and we call on you to really behave on the ground in Brussels as you should on a battlefield, to stand up for the interests of Hungary, and to make sure that, at the snap of Brussels, you do not have to change Hungary's legislation that is well thought out or less well-thought out; you do not have to put the Hungarian Parliament in such a humiliating position that you had a legislative intention; you must now turn away from it at the snap of Brussels, and try to explain why it is reasonable for us opposition representatives to accept these intentions, while these intentions are in such a corner of your intentions, at the moment, of Hungary's interests. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-11-03-166	Welcome. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one asked for a two-minute speech. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For application:]] Yeah. Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat, please.
u2015-11-03-167	Mr President, Dear House, I will not tell you, to be more precise, that I am surprised by the fact that I am coming to the right and opportunity of speaking so quickly, not only because today the KDNP, which has committed a kind of attack on children, has not even set up a keynote speaker, but also because it has simply not developed, there has not been a debate on a very serious issue, where we have heard a meaningful speech in the leadership. But that is the question: once again, can the Hungarian legislator's intention be redirected to the original intention by a central snap in Brussels. I understand I'm going to get some sort of summary answer here in a closet that I won't be able to respond to, but I don't think this whole debate is worthy. The reason why I do not think it is worthy is because, at the moment, Hungary's sovereignty is being violated on a matter where there is room for manoeuvre, there would be an opportunity, as was the case with regard to other special taxes. In the case of the so-called financial transaction levy, the government has even done so by naming this typically tax type as a levy, in order to force less boxing in Brussels later on. It can be seen that this levy was met with the intention of the government, since its income expectations were either fulfilled or overachieved. On the other hand, it was not so bad for financial institutions either, as the Government of Hungary allowed these items to be passed on to the victims almost entirely, in a way that exceeded the total volume of small businesses. In fact, we know of a Hungarian small business operator who received an invoice from the bank to pay the financial transaction fee for months. Therefore, this could be done in Hungary, in violation of all kinds of legislation. In the case of the food chain inspection fee, there were two problems and suspicions. One is that if the portfolio is properly diversified, it is avoided or largely avoided. On the other hand, it will be incorporated into the price of products, where appropriate, or incorporated into the labour market costs that will eventually be reduced on workers and workers. We also see that here, at ministerial level, a desperate proposal has also come to light from the government that is why they do not leave this food chain inspection fee, the lost part of it in any case in the multi-company sector. They are trying to encourage them to recruit more workers, to employ more people, so in a market economy they are trying to determine in a somewhat unknown way the number of employees that companies have decided on in a sovereign way. I am not saying that these sovereign decisions have benefited Hungary in the last 10-15 years, and indeed. What these foreign networks have done to Hungarian workers is directly insatiable, and they have brought the most humiliating conditions to Hungary. But I also say that it is not necessarily on this other battlefield that we should try to clear up the damage, because if you set a precedent by saying once again that Brussels is snapping your fingers, and you so easily rewrite your own legislation, in a way that is different from that of the legislator, then this precedent can lead very far away, and there is no guarantee that their next attempt will not be canceled in a similar way, and this could start a special domino effect. [[18.10]] So I would like to state that, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I am in favour of more workers working in larger units with decent wages under fair conditions. I also see the units in which this is needed. What I don't understand is why the government is so easily giving up its position and why it is trying to meet the revenue expectations on another battlefield, especially when these revenue expectations are strapped here in terms of the food chain inspection fee, so they should be used for a specific and otherwise good purpose. Obviously, there is a question of how effective they can do this and what kind of asset system they know. To make a footnote here: for example, is there a Hungarian-owned laboratory system that can at least properly examine the total volume in terms of extraction of samples, or should this be developed? But we can also see that if this precedent starts, if the system in Hungary is to click in Brussels and you rewrite your own law, then it is not necessarily necessary for Hungary to have a government, it will also be enough to have a translation team implementing, translating and transposing the laws that you make up for you in the center of the empire. So I suggest you have a lot more courage. A little more battles, yes, there is the chance and opportunity of more confrontation in this whole system, but believe me, representation of national interests and representation of national sovereignty, the dignity of this is worth it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-168	As a normal word applicant, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2015-11-03-169	Thank you very much. That's probably what we're thinking about a little bit differently. I think that a bill that the government knew was going to be sent back to us for another trial, which was what our faction said was going to send back to trial, which is what we know and see that if they were to negotiate with the Union and not fight freedom fights with them, and they would not try to sell the freedom fight in Hungary, as in relation to brandy, which, for example, will be the subject of the next bill, we might be able to submit legislative proposals that the Union will accept. All you have to do is negotiate. For example, as a suggestion, bullfighting is not acceptable to the Union, but Portugal and Spain were willing to negotiate and not fight freedom on this issue. From now on, although it is difficult for me to accept it, but for us, bullfighting is a traditional issue, it can continue in these countries. And the schnapps freedom fight has failed by your government. It would be much easier if they were to negotiate on these issues, rather than sneaking around trying to submit, accept and get them to the Union, which they themselves know will not go through. Thank you very much. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]]
u2015-11-03-170	Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed as no one has made any further comments. The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react. Mr Róbert Zsigó is the secretary of state. Here.
u2015-11-03-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I would like to respond briefly to the points on the subject, and on the other hand, I do not want to interfere with the debate between the opposition's parties on how and how to fight or not to fight Brussels. Anita Heringes, Member of the MSZP, said that the government went against EU law, and the Union sent this back, and we would agree with that, and they said in advance: Madam Congresswoman, I would like to say that we do not agree with her, and I said in my introduction to the agenda that the Hungarian Government has brought an action before the European Court of Justice in order to destroy the Commission's decision. I also said that since the European Commission has suspended the provisions of the food chain inspection fee in the band, the aim of this amendment is to ensure that multinational companies pay the food chain monitoring fee in this year, and to contribute in Hungarian to the costs of monitoring food chain monitoring. I would like to respond to some of Mr Dániel Z. Karpat's comments, and there have been some errors in this, and allow me, Member, to correct this if possible. I also said in my introduction that the food chain inspection fee is neither tax nor special tax. We are talking about a levy on food law, and we have been talking about it, and we are talking about it now, which is to ensure that everyone, all actors in the food chain, contributes to food chain monitoring. And it is also a mistake, Member, that the government would now tax Hungarian-owned convenience stores, I repeat: we will not tax them. The system, which is the subject of the now amended legislation, reflects the rate that was available in Hungary until 31 December 2014, which was in force, which was, as I said at the beginning, that everyone, producer and customer, is also contributing to food chain monitoring. By the way, the smallest companies, as you mentioned, have the opportunity to charge flat rates or lower fees. If Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát talked about the system once, then it really gives me the opportunity to say a few sentences about the food chain monitoring system. The National Food Chain Security Office itself is also doing double work. On the one hand, of course, it carries out inspections under the law, and on the other hand, as a body of the Ministry of Agriculture, it wishes to be a partner for everyone who works in the food chain. Some numbers should be allowed in this respect, in 2014, so the number of plant inspections in the last closed year was 66 525, of which 20 857 were specifically targeted at food distribution, 155 963 food items were controlled by the National Food Chain Safety Office in 2014, 10 148 items had to be withdrawn from circulation, all fines were 750 million forints. In 2012, we set up the Directorate for Priority Cases in Nebihen, in the three years the Authority carried out more than 1100 audits, otherwise the detection rate was 87 percent. It also shows that the system itself, the system set up, is working well. For those who have been listed by István Horváth, the increase in news is because we want to make sure that all cases that are happening come to light so that, on the one hand, businesses who think about such things are deterred and, on the other hand, we stand up for honest businesses. But also the National Food Chain Safety Office and the Ministry of Agriculture want to be partners with decent businesses and customers, we operate a green number for which more than ten thousand requests have been received, of which 780 have been notified in the public interest, otherwise related to food chain security. We also operate an internet interface on which the Office can share professional information, so I think that we can all be proud of the system we operate. I can answer your comment on mass catering, yes, we are working on it. If you also look at the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, we are working on allowing as many local products as possible to be fed to the public. That is why the Minister for Agriculture, Minister Sándor Fazekas, also launched a programme in 2015, the year of the local product. Allow me one more thought about the lab system and the food chain inspection fee itself. You should know that 10 percent of the supervisory fee received is mandatory, by law, to be used for development, and, of course, there is scope for improvement, because the food black economy is developing, food is forgery by criminal organizations, and therefore, once again, 10 percent of the supervisory fee income is automatically spent on development, and 40 percent of the remaining part remains at the National Food Chain Safety Office, and 60 percent goes to government offices for control as well. That's what I wanted to add to what was said. Once again, the government did not back down, it challenged the Commission's decision before the European Court of Justice. But we also want the large multinational companies to pay the supervisory fee imposed on them in 2015. [[18.20]] Thank you all for your standing and participation in the debate, and I ask you all to support not only by adopting the law but also in everyday life the work that is most important for the Ministry of Agriculture and the government to bring healthy, safe, high-quality food to the table of every Hungarian family. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 LXXIII on pálinka, grape pálinka and the National Council of Pálinka. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/6982. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr György Czerván, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have up to 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Each country, including Hungary, has its own national spirit drink, and this is nothing more than brandy in our case. It is also a tradition, history and a national identity. The fruit-growing areas, which have been abundant for centuries and which offer a wide range of fruit varieties, provide the opportunity to produce high-quality and extremely rich palinka. Pálinka is a hungaricum and plays a prominent role among the Hungaricums. In addition, it is our national treasure, which is an integral part of Hungarian nutrition culture and traditional preservation. There may not be a household in Hungary where family events, family gatherings, or traditional celebrations do not place this wonderful premium product on the table and then be consumed. Therefore, in 2008 the pálinka received legal protection with the entry into force of the so-called pálinka law. The Pálinka Act established the Pálinka National Council in order to promote the common Hungarian interest in the uniform regulation of the production, origin, quality and origin protection of pálinka. Based on the experience gained since the creation of the Pálinka Act in 2008, as well as the experience of the tasks performed by the Pálinka National Council, T/6982 was born as a result of long and thorough codification work on pálinka, towel pálinka and the National Council of Pálinka. Bill No. 1 which fundamentally changes the functioning of the National Council of Pálinka. The legal system of the European Union regulates in detail the concept of spirit drinks and the protection of the Union origin of products produced in each Member State. Under Regulation (EC) No 110/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2008 on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and the protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks, pálinka and marc brandy are EU protected geographical indications. The EU protection of pálinka has greatly contributed to the increase in the number of pálinka houses and manufactures for the production of special quality pálinka, which further enhances the importance of pálinka. The bill provides for the use of the pálinka mark in the case of pálinkas and pálinkas that are placed on the domestic market. The National Council of Pálinka is currently an opinionative consultative body with proposal powers, consisting of ten representatives of six professional organisations, supplemented by two delegates from the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of National Economy. On the basis of the bill, the National Council of Pálinka becomes a legal entity, a public body, which performs public tasks related to the protection of origin, quality and origin, the promotion of the market access of pálinka and the preservation of the national treasure of pálinka. The National Council of Pálinka can only act effectively as a public body for the production of pálinka and törcöppálinka, for the control of product specifications, for the enforcement of EU protection, for quality protection and for the development of a single marketing strategy. Particular attention should be paid to the monitoring of the product specification of brandys with EU protected geographical indications. In order to protect pálinka and pálinka as EU protected geographical indications, the Pálinka National Council does not have independent powers in its current form. The bill makes it a public task of the National Council of Pálinka and thus gives appropriate powers, inter alia, to examine compliance with the product specifications of the protected geographical indication pálinka and törcölypálinka, to enforce EU geographical indication rights and to take action against offenders. On the basis of the bill, the members of the National Council of Pálinka are, by virtue of the law, trade defence organisations representing the producers of pálinka which have at least five closed economic years and have at least ten distilleries with tax warehouse permits each year of this period, and on a voluntary basis, a member of the National Council of Pálinka may be a member of the trade defence organisation which, at its request, is accepted as a member of the National Council of Pálinka. On the basis of the bill, the officials of the National Council of Pálinka are the President, the Vice-Presidents and the Chair of the Supervisory Board. The property management and the legality of the management of the National Council of Pálinka are monitored in the context of the achievement of the objectives set and the tasks to be performed by a three-member supervisory body. It is also of great importance for the players in the pálinka market to compete at pálinka competitions. The tasks of the National Council of Pálinka include the organisation of the national pálinka and pálinka competition, which, as a public body, the Council could organise independently, acquire rights and undertake commitments in order to carry out the tasks. The performance of the tasks set out in the bill provides the basis for the functioning of the National Council of Pálinka as a public body. Dear Parliament, Mr President, In recent years and today, both the world and the European Union have experienced very serious changes. These changes are an integral part of agriculture, including brandy. All actors in the sector need to make serious efforts to adapt to these changes in a competitive way. It is our duty to protect and promote the pálinka as a hungaricum for the entire Hungarian nation, which is organically promoted and supported by the bill. I would also ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Font Sándor, will come. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also presented the first version of the Palinka Act in December 2007 with my fellow Member Antal Caesar. We were opposed at this time of year. We caused quite a scare in the then MSZP-SZDSZ government round, because they saw that a bill had been submitted to which it was a bit unpleasant to say no, because we all felt the schnapps, regardless of the left and right side of the horseshoe, and this is thankful to God, and it is still so to this day. We decided then to withdraw the first version, because more people would like to join, all the appointed representatives of the then five parliamentary groups, and to submit it together, but a version that we are preparing, involving the then Pálinka Knight Order and the national-covered pálinkas organisations and representative organisations. Technically, it became a pure professional law, in which, in today's living law, all parameters, all definitions, all conditions and procedures were based on the descriptions of professional organisations. [[18.30]] Only one part was added as novum, and this is the National Council of Pálinka itself. This was a proposal that I suggested that if the National Council of the Mountain Communities already exists in the system of vine growers, which is the peak and representative and public body of the whole Hungarian vineyard winery, it would be good to cover this system with a top organ at the pálinka as well. By the way, the pálinka law itself was made for French and English samples, but one of them was 150, and the other 400 years earlier created this law at home with its own national drink, whiskey and Konyak. But we have not seen our work at risk, so that with these few hundred years of delay, we may be able to settle the fate of the real Hungarian Hungaricum. That's what we said back then, and it wasn't even a Hungaricum law. At that time, the life of the pálinka was described by at least four laws, laws of various ministries, where it is tax authority, excise duty, or cultivation, or the Food Book on the basis of marketing and sensory aspects. We have summarized this, and thank God, I can safely say that it shows that if someone looks back at the outcome of the first round vote of the 2008 referral in June 2008, everyone wanted to finally have a separate law on brandy, regardless of politics. But since we were already strong members of the EU at the time, it had to be sent to the Union for notification, because the rules on labelling were governed by EU central legislation, so any country should not impose any labelling rules. Fortunately, after a three-month study, all EU Member States did not find any valid objections, minimal amendments had to be made. Thus, with amendments tabled to the final vote in November 2008, we adopted the currently living Palinka Act and the National Council Act. These seven years passed, and what was shown in the newly formed National Council of Pálinka, in a completely new organization, in its work... - then this body was not created as a public body, we did not yet know the established way. Today, as Minister of State György Czerván has indicated, the National Council of Pálinka is a highly recognised top organ of all pálinka organisations and the government, which, perhaps with serious responsibility, would be the only organisation responsible for the national pálinka competition. In order to do this, however, legal status must be established, since the National Council of Pálinka is not a legal person, nor does it have a public authority. The current bill amends the aspects, the comments that professional organisations have proposed to the National Council of Pálinka as a supreme body over the last seven years, and it is worth presenting to the Ministry and the Government. At the same time, the main idea is that the National Council of Pálinka, like the National Council of Mountains, should be a public body and have legal personality. We believe that this new qualification is also a new and appreciated task for the future elected National Council, as this draft legislation regulates the conditions under which it can be included. For the record, I have participated in more of these nominations than the national president of one of the national organizations for more than 10 years. There has always been a great deal of scrambling and prestige on the part of the organizations that produce the brandy, who can finally enter the National Council of Pálinka. It is no coincidence that, for the first time, it is necessary to clarify which organisations with national coverage have already had a past, i.e. they have 5 closed marketing years, and at least 10, I would have dared to mention a higher number here, but with a minimum of 10 tax warehouse registrations. Thus, the organisations proposing themselves in the National Council of Pálinka had to be classified as serious organisations with national coverage, which, as a result of their proposal, will be able to send members to the National Council of Pálinka, and then the National Council will elect the leader and leaders from among them. With this new function, we can achieve that on the European stage, the Hungarian national brandy and spirits competitions are known in several countries, but we are only interested in the spirit competitions, because the brandy category is the category of spirits, and the Hungarian national brandy and spirits competition can also earn a worthy rank. Many people know that, for example, Vienna has achieved a very serious international level in this spirit competition. I believe that the national pálinka competition in Hungary organised by the Pálinka National Council with a new title and the National Council with future new members can also gain European status. This is what we can see from the rise in the number of items called national brandy competitions in the last two years and, thank God, their quality. Given this quality, we have been able to announce the results of the national competition here in Parliament and in the upper house on one occasion. I trust that there will be a great memory on several occasions, after the creation of the current law, for further work by the National Council of Pálinka and the pálinka society. The proposal is supported by the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-03-176	Thank you very much. Mr Gábor Bellozó, lead speaker for the MSZP Group, is next. Here.
u2015-11-03-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Secretary of State concluded by saying that it is our duty to protect the brandy as a Hungaricum. I deeply agree with that statement. I must add that, unfortunately, it will be very necessary now to protect the pálinka as a hungaricum, in its appropriate capacity. And the favourable processes through which the pálinka could be strengthened as a highly cult, cultural and increasingly improving quality national drink and could have started to conquer the international market, unfortunately due to recent events, it is feared that they could break. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the pálinka and to strengthen the domestic pálinka situation. This bill is actually about this, which is what it aims to do. After all, it's all about getting the Palinka National Council to become a public body. Public bodies may be awarded to organisations which are deemed to have a priority public service mission. In this function, the National Council of Pálinka will carry out public tasks related to the protection of origin, quality and origin, the promotion of market access for pálinka and the preservation of pálinka as a national treasure. Other tasks of the National Council of Pálinka will be the production of pálinka and törcöppálinka, the monitoring of product specifications, the enforcement of EU protection, quality protection and the development of a marketing strategy. I would particularly like to highlight quality protection here, because I fear that in the near future, if we do not pay attention to this, there may be serious problems. It is regrettable to say that the accompanying event of this bill or its preventive event is the failure of the pálinka-freedom fight. Because since 1924 there has been a ban on home pálinka cooking; in Hungary there could be any dictatorship, oppressive power, or any democracy who wanted to ban pálinka cooking, it had to be faced with the fact that pálinka cooking is indeed a Hungarian folk tradition, Hungaricum, which cannot be banned by regulation, because in villages, even in cities, people cook brandy at home. [[18.40]] It could be said that we forbid it, but it doesn't make them cook the same way. That's what you could chase, but that doesn't make people cook the same way. So the objective is, in fact, not to prohibit an existing activity, but to do so - how should I put it? - legal to provide the appropriate regulated framework, this was a perfectly good objective, but unfortunately, here too, the Hungarian Government has decided not to negotiate the conditions for this with the European Union - which, unfortunately, is strictly regulated by the tax conditions under which alcoholic beverages can be produced and marketed - but we simply announced that we would then make home pálinka cooking free of excise duty. It is possible to negotiate with the European Union. There are a number of good examples, as my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, said on the previous bill, that there are even such extreme cases in the EU that, in the case of two Member States, bullfighting can also be conducted legally, which I believe, by the way, if someone is not in his culture, let us say that it is as destructive for him as, say, the consumption of alcoholic beverages. But if, in the spirit drink, we look at the fact that good quality brandy is more harmful or less harmful than, let us say, the consumption of other burnt spirits, it may not be as destructive if we are in favour of promoting good quality Hungarian brandy on the market and that people would rather eat it than other burnt spirits. So I think that it is a good objective to allow home brewing and to negotiate with the European Union and introduce it accordingly. That's not what happened. It could be expected that the government would not be able to do this in this form, that it was not willing to negotiate, to defend, and unfortunately, these fears were justified, and that the schnitzel-free fight failed, which now results in the fact that practically the home pálinka brewing will remain almost unchanged, because it is not a burden that the person who bought, let's say, the pálinka distillery equipment, would not pay the thousand forints a year, let's say, a registration fee or this tax that will be introduced next to it, but that the wage brewing will be subject to a very significant tax burden, and that simply the people will not take their margin into the pots, but that the person who can make more pálinka at home will cook, not just his own, but the black market will be strengthened. It is estimated that even 80-90 percent of home-made brandy can be placed on the black market, which is, let's face it, a spirit drink of questionable quality, because what you carefully cook for yourself is highly high quality brandy. That is why the pálinka competitions that President Font spoke about are also good, and that is why it is good to strengthen this part of the tradition of pálinka cooking. However, it is also important to recognise that there is a significant risk that the pálinka, which is increasingly making significant traffic on the sloppy black market, will now flood the market because of this failure. So I just want to confirm from this that if this unfortunate event has simply occurred, then indeed all interests and professional arguments support the need to strengthen the National Council of Pálinka. In this, becoming a public body is a good toolbox for the National Council of Pálinka, for strengthening its role, and we will therefore support this proposal, and we believe that further measures are needed to avoid these black-cooked pálinkas becoming characteristic in the Hungarian market, and that the activities of high quality, with a strong tradition and strengthening the true pálinka cooking and consumption culture should be strengthened. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-03-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the front of the pálinka-freedom fight, change is multi-directional. First of all, I definitely have to say that Jobbik disagrees with the taxation of local brandy, but I don't think I'm going to surprise anyone. However, if it is already taxed, we prefer the previous method that the annual flat-rate tax on the private brewing of fruit brandy had to be paid to the municipal tax authority, and the revenue was the revenue of the municipality. However, as of 2016, this tax revenue will apply to the central budget, while the levy and payment of taxes will be carried out through the introduction of the spirit tax ticket. According to this, the municipal government falls from the excise revenue of local pálinka brewing, which reduces its already scarce resources. It would be very tempting, by the way, to talk about the repressed small settlements, the increasingly depressed countryside, but I don't want to, let's just stick to the schnapps. He well knew that the CAP, therefore the quota system of the common agricultural policy and the total lack of our food self-determination, would also put the Hungarian pálinka brewing government's declaration of freedom into lipstick. The Hungarian countryside has become the raw material-producing colony of the food industry, and this causes very serious social and economic problems in the Hungarian countryside, as economic degradation is increasing, and the social waste heap that we encounter every day is growing. Even though we have the capacity to grow on the world market, based on well-selling Hungaricums, even though we have the quality of domestic pálinka production capacity when it hits the producer with a quantitative limit and excludes the use of our ability to grow. It is clear that only the radical transformation of macro-regulation and the elimination of quantitative quotas could change. That is why Jobbik says that we do not accept that we are no longer exempt from the rate of pay, nor do we accept that after cooking at home we also have to pay. Unfortunately, the government's freedom fight has failed. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-180	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one asked for a two-minute speech. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Zsolt V. Németh, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Gábor Harangozó and Balázs Ander, who spoke before me, allowed himself to say that the struggle for freedom and freedom failed. It's not like that. It is still possible to cook pálinka in Hungary, and it is still possible for private people, which could not be done before 2010. The exemption may be lost, but the fight for freedom did not fail; at that time we gave people a freedom that was one of the greatest experiences of Hungary in the countryside since the change of regime, because we allowed an activity that they had done before and since, but they are free to do so today. So this is a very important item. The other is an almost cliché-like, axioma-like movement, that there are commercial breweries, that is excellent quality, and that there is a dipper, and that is what they do at home at the house. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, in the least. That's because, although there are inexhaustible merits to the commercial breweries, they're the ones who made quality drinks out of brandy. Many mention that he was brought out of the restaurant into the salons, if you will, so they have inexorable merit, but it is very important that the other field, the world of the farmers, is the world, because it is their job to allow this excellent drink, the consumption of which is possible for a wide range of people. [[18.50]] To quote the old saying, so that the brandy doesn't go the same way as the brandy this year, which was said to be the drink of the working class, which he drinks through his elected representatives. Now, schnapps can't be in this line of work, and that's a chance for the farmers. Just as we have seen less good quality in the commercial brewery - see the tests of various consumer programmes - such quality also appears in the payroll, as the quality of the distillate does not necessarily lie in the cookery, but at home when a person prepares the mace, it determines 60 percent. Obviously, the saying is true that you can't turn a bad mace into a good one, but you can also turn a good mash into a bad one. And there's the third field, the private cooking. In fact, many people I meet are involved in this, the more demanding kind who want to experience the experience that today, when it is made from all semi-finished products, the housewife no longer produces noodles, doesn't raise chicken and doesn't cut it off, but buys the finished product in frozen or other prepared form, then there is a product that is given that I can do it myself from the first stage to the last: remove the fruit from the tree, prepare the cauldron, do the humidification myself, do the ripening, bottleding. This is an experience for many people, and there are very many of us, who do not least regret the paid tax that people already pay in the payroll. Two items can certainly be true separately, but not together: one is that private-cooked pálinka is placed on the market; the other is that private-cooked pálinka can only be a lousy quality. The two can't be true together: or you can do a very good quality in private cooking, I think that's true, and sometimes, I think, less often, you can get into commercial circulation in the same way that the pálinka you've been pedigree can be placed on the market. I think the solution is for everyone to abide by the law. Keep the commercial breweries and, let's say, do not put products that are below cost, and it's clear that they couldn't be made out of fruit. Let the farmers also follow the rules - as if we had heard of a sealant and a non-flagged device there - and let the private cooks follow. If we do so, these three segments will live peacefully side by side, and each of them can raise the culture of pálinka. By the way, I am convinced that the five years of tax-free taxation have had a beneficial effect on the pálinka culture. And to talk about private cooking in the third segment, here I managed to raise the quality by bringing both knowledge and equipment to the surface, because many of them cooked this by not knowing modern procedures, by not having a professional book, or even sharing knowledge with others, because it was a forbidden, criminalized activity, and produced the distillate with all kinds of Kramancs. Today, you can buy this device in stores, and I am convinced that it belongs to the pálinka culture as well as to the institution of wage cooking or commercial cooking. I trust that the interests of all three segments will be reflected in the new form of the Pálinka National Council. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-03-182	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Bellozó asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2015-11-03-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to argue so much with my fellow Member Mr Zsolt V. Németh, but I would like to add to his point that the problem is that the cooking of wages will now be significantly more expensive. So far, it has been free of excise duty, and now it will be subject to excise duty, which will result in the brewing of a liter of pálinka around HUF 2200-2500. It is feared that many will then not take the brandy to official wage-making, but will somehow resolve it as in forbidden times, and from then on it will most likely end up in the black trade. So it won't go to the shops, and we agree that cooking at home won't put the brandy in the shops, at least not in large quantities. Unfortunately, local markets such as, say, in certain regions of Europe, say, in Alsace, which we have learned have not yet developed in Hungary, so that local pálinka can really be expected to reach the local markets. Maybe someday this time will come. However, I think it is right to fear that a lot of homemade brandy is on the black market, and it is not primarily expected that it will be good quality brandy, but cheap, percussion, fence-breaking, as you can see in many places, small-town pubs: there are some bottles of lock-marked regular pálinka, and then, when the audience is so sure that no one will report or interfere, then the other bottle will turn up from under the counter. This is increasingly renaissance, so that if normal brewed brandy becomes expensive - this is the danger that I called attention to, and this will have to be dealt with in the future. Thank you.
u2015-11-03-184	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[On the sign of György Czerván:]] It says yes. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Really very briefly, because there was no indication, no objection to the proposal itself, the speakers and speakers practically supported the proposal, which I would like to thank. Of course, when there is an amending proposal, we will also discuss them. What was expected was that this particular issue of freedom would come up in the context of the proposal, but this had nothing to do with the proposal, because it was about something else entirely. I agree with Congressman Zsolt V. Németh, my colleague of State Secretary, and we will not lose any freedom fight. I think that the popularity of pálinka has been increasing steadily since 2010, and it is becoming more and more popular among young people, and we can all be proud of that, yet the pálinka is our national drink. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-186	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. Act CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of certain public services and related legislative amendments. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/6984. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the State Audit Office has prepared information material for the bill, which was published on the website and distributed to Members wishing to speak. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2015-11-03-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The T/6984 in front of you. The purpose of this bill is to add provisions to the Waste Management Act that ensure the application of public service charges for newly regularised collectors' containers in waste management public services. The need for regulation is due to the fact that the temporary provisions of the law for reducing the costs do not contain any requirements for introducing new container sizes. From 1 January 2016, the public service provider shall provide the residents with the option of choosing at least one collector vessel not exceeding 80 litres. [[19.00]] The choice of a collector vessel with a capacity not exceeding 60 litres shall also be granted to residents using residential property alone and in a way of life. In many settlements, municipal regulations laying down rules for the application of 60 and 80 litres of collecting vessels have already entered into force and new collection vessels sizes are also organized. Accordingly, it is necessary to determine the method of calculation of the fees applicable to previously unscheduled collection vessels. The proposal provides for the possibility of allowing the use of public service charges for waste-management public-service space collection vessels, which have not yet been regularised, so as to ensure that the benefits of the reduction of costs are maintained. The amendment also encourages the reduction of collection sizes and thus the active participation of residents in separate collections. In addition, the Commission adopted Regulation (EU) No 1357/2014 on 18 December 2014, which amended Annex 3 to the Waste Framework Directive as of 1 June 2015. This Annex contains the hazard characteristics of waste. It is therefore possible to decide whether a waste is considered to be hazardous or not. If a waste has one or more hazard characteristics, it is considered hazardous waste. This annex is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. It was transposed into Hungarian law by Annex 1 to Act No. This Annex should be replaced with the new Annex in order to ensure that domestic legislation is consistent with EU law and that law-abiding users can distinguish between types of hazardous and non-hazardous waste according to a single EU set of rules. In view of this, the new Annex contains new hazard codes, names and details. However, the proposed legislation does not only concern waste management issues. The 1995 LVII on water management Pursuant to the provisions of Law No 13, the local government is obliged to organise the collection of household waste water not collected by public works. In a large part of the country's settlements there is no utility network. The proportion of apartments connected to the network is 77 percent. Projects under the EU deployment obligation for waste water treatment agglomerations above 2 000 inhabitants equivalents will be carried out under the national municipal waste water treatment and purification implementation programme, with 89,9 percent of the population, around 8 million 886 thousand people living in public-channel housing. Currently, 1294 are settlements that do not have a sewage treatment system at all. Most of these are settlements below 2 thousand inhabitants equivalent, not belonging to sewage treatment agglomeration, and lie in Baranya, Somogy, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Zala and Vas counties. The collection of non-public waste water should also be carried out in non-fully channeled municipalities outside these municipalities. A waste water collection public service may be carried out by the person who fulfils the different personal and material conditions and has concluded a public service contract with the municipality. There is currently no legislation in case the public service in the municipality is temporarily suspended due to the failure of the procedure for selecting the service provider or due to the unlawful conduct of the contracting party. The situation is borne by the fact that the environmental requirements for uninsulated land beds are being tightened by the 1st of January 2016 and that compliance increases the costs of handling non-public household waste water. The aim is to ensure that licensed operators and companies supply the waste water by regular transport, in regular emptying places, which should be redirected to new accommodation sites due to the closure of uninsulated emptying sites. However, if the service provider serving more than one municipality withdraws from the contract because of the channelling of the settlement or part of the settlement served until then, the municipality cannot solve the public service. The bill is therefore CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of certain public services and related legislative amendments. proposes to amend law. In the event of a loss of public service, the public body designated by the government shall arrange for the designation of a public service provider for the purpose of temporary care or for the organisation of emergency care. A similar legal institution already exists and operates effectively for waste management and chimney sweep services. With the closure of the projects of the Environment and Energy Operational Programme and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme, the country's sewerage rate will increase from 77 to 89,9 percent, reducing the amount of domestic waste water produced and not collected by public works, and the free capacity of waste water treatment plants to absorb non-public waste water. A further 13 percent of the population will be exempted from the removal of their waste water by means of a vehicle carrying its resulting waste water in the following years. In the meantime, if the proposal is adopted, the continuity and safety of transport can also be guaranteed for the public sewage collection service, while complying with EU requirements. Ensuring continuity of responsible transport is also a priority issue for public health. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. Act CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of certain public services and related legislative amendments. T/6984. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-188	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2015-11-03-189	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before this House serves both an objective of EU harmonisation and the rules for setting a public service fee for waste management and, thirdly, addresses the regulatory shortcomings in the continuity of public services in the municipalities. In the field of waste management, there is a need for continued progress in Hungary, which the government is paying serious attention to. Over the last decade, protection against the harmful effects of waste has become one of the most important economic and environmental issues. I should mention from EU legislation the Waste Management Directive, which sets targets for our country as well. By 2020, half of municipal waste should be recycled, by 2020 the preparation for re-use and recycling of household waste should be increased to at least 50% in weight, by 2015 a separate waste collection system should be set up for the treatment of household waste, the quantity of organic matter to be biodegradable to be disposed of as part of municipal waste should be reduced to 35% by 1 July 2016 compared to the quantity produced at national level in 1995. By 2020, 70% of non-dangerous construction and demolition waste should be recycled or recycled and 45% of dry batteries should be collected by 2016. We can see, therefore, that there are plenty of tasks, and that is the way in which the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government are going, and we are going this way. The rules of the Waste Directive were transposed into Hungary's legal system in 2012. Our waste law represents a significant step forward compared to the previous situation, including the principles of preparing for reuse, the principle of extended producer responsibility, the principle of self-sufficiency, the principle of proximity, the principle of polluter-paying, the principle of the recovery of biodegradable waste, the principle of ensuring cost-effective waste management public service and the principle of non-cross-financing. [[19.10]] There is also a life-cycle perspective in the law, according to which environmental policy must ensure that negative environmental impacts are minimised throughout the life cycle of resources. There is also some further progress that our country has made in recent years on waste management legislation. In 2013, the National Waste Management Agency started operating, which qualifies the activities of the waste management public service organisation on the basis of the safety and quality of the service. There is also progress in the operation and regulation of the waste management information system as part of the OKIR in the waste management data register. We have every two years reporting on the generation, recovery and disposal of waste to the EU, which was precisely regulated by the government in a regulation last year. In addition, let me say about the bill, we must mention that the aim of the bill is to supplement the Waste Management Act with the rules that ensure the application of public service charges for collecting containers re-regularised in waste management public services. The need for regulation is due to the fact that the temporary provisions of the law for reducing the costs do not contain any requirements for introducing new container sizes. This regulation will also preserve the results of the reduction of the rent so far. The bill also serves EU harmonisation objectives, and, as Mr State Secretary said, the proposal also concerns public waste water collection services. The bill is CXXXIV of 2013 on the provision of individual public services and related legislative amendments. proposes to amend law. In the event of a loss of public service, the public body designated by the government shall arrange for the designation of a public service provider for the purpose of temporary care or for the organisation of emergency care. A similar legal institution already exists and operates effectively for waste management and chimney sweeping public services. Dear Parliament, I would ask the honourable Members of Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2015-11-03-190	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP, is next. Here.
u2015-11-03-191	Thank you very much for the floor. We are no longer surprised that the amendment of the legislation on waste is the last agenda. Somehow, we are always discussing this law as our last agenda, surely because you know it is one of the public services that the Fidesz-KDNP government has managed to make completely impossible, unsustainable and destroy. We have been able to hear from several of our fellow Members who are pro-government representatives that the summary of the content of this law is that it transposes the hazard characteristics of waste and, in addition, lays down the rules for charging for newly introduced container sizes. As I said, we are not surprised that we are discussing it last, nor are we surprised that the problem of chimney sweeping services in the amendment of the Waste Act is being addressed in a specific way. In the same way as waste management, chimney sweeps will be entrusted to disaster management directorates. If, by the way, the chimney sweeping company is not able to supply in that area, then the disaster management board will be able to designate a public service provider in these areas. You must have heard about it and read today's communication, and now a number of communications from the chimney sweeping trade union, who today announced that, by the deadline of 21 December, 322 chimney sweeps had deposited their resignations precisely because they had been placed in an uncertain position that was unworthy of them. These are the people who, when the rural people and the rural population see us, still hold their buttons to this day, because we believe that they bring good luck. Today, these people may feel that somehow the two-thirds majority of the Fidesz-KDNP government did not bring them any luck, because the Fidesz-KDNP originally submitted the new law on chimney sweep on 10 March, which has not been closed since then, as you have also faced it and found that it is impossible to complete the bill that you have submitted. The emergency department would've taken care of the public chimney sweep. When we have suggested to you that they do, then if these people go to disaster control, will they be members of a law enforcement organization, if these people who have done this work will not be transferred, then we will suddenly train people who will do these work with a crash course. We have not received an answer, and since there has been so much indignation from both the profession and the local authorities and the population, fortunately the government has withdrawn from the implementation of this law. However, we can now see that, as in waste management, they are taking this step here, so that when you find that these providers are doing their job wrong, disaster management will be able to designate a service provider in these areas. The disaster is caused by your government in these areas, and now disaster control will protect this disaster. However, the Hungarian language also has its charm on this issue. Let's get back to waste management. The financing of this public service has a deficit of HUF 11-12 billion per year, and we have been saying for a long time that it is on the verge of inability. You're the one who says that there's been a lot of alarms about this sector moving on the brink of inability, but it doesn't happen. There is only one thing you are not paying attention, dear fellow Members, to the fact that these companies are largely municipal-owned companies in which the mayors sit, who are not questioning whether they are trying to maintain the service until their last breath, because they know where the mayor lives, and when it is the first time that they do not remove the garbage from the houses and stay there for days and weeks, the mayor will be found by the residents, and they will therefore maintain this public service until their last breath. I have just said one more time that it is not only the public service that needs to be maintained and a system that is sustainable, but that if an instrument goes wrong in these companies, they must somehow be replaced or new ones must be bought or repaired, these costs must also be eliminated, and the only way that this system can work is if it is sustainable. We need to be non-profitable companies, and we need to stress that before, by the way, we again say that we are only on the side of the service providers, we think that these companies should come out of their money, we need to be able to create a sustainable system. I can't wait to see when they're gonna make their next move. I submitted a proposal for a decision a few weeks ago, which your Deputy State Secretary rejected by saying that there is no problem in the waste management system, so we do not need to discuss our proposal for a decision. Fortunately, it was the Minister of State who admitted that he did, that there are flaws in the waste management system and that this needs to be changed. I'm glad they admitted that it's just bad that you guys in the ministry probably won't talk to each other, because you're not going to include a series of proposals for a resolution that is trying to improve it, or at all, you just want to sit down and talk about it, let's say, not as your last agenda, as you keep bringing this subject to us. We fear that a week or two will pass and we will amend the Waste Management and Waste Act again, in which we are sure, afraid that we will see that you will, as usual, create a large public company, in which local government-owned public services will surely voluntarily hand over all their assets, because the state will be able to do better on this issue, and it will be able to create a sustainable system. Then we won't be surprised that if they realize that the many charges, taxes, tolls, phone taxes, transaction taxes that these companies have to pay, they'll accidentally get wiped out by this state company, because you'll also realize that this system will be unsustainable. The problem is that you can see in this, as in many, many areas, the only goal is to take these tools away from these service companies, take away the opportunity to maintain the system, and then you will solve this problem well, but it has been proven several times that the state has not been able to solve this problem well. [[19.20]] This is typically an issue that is better when it is closer to the people, it is better to be closer to the municipalities and, by the way, to keep working on companies that have done their job perfectly. On an annual basis, these companies lose a value of HUF 40 billion by losing useful materials in the waste, rather than extracting it, by dumping it, because at the moment there is no other way to solve it. As my fellow Member Manninger has said, Hungary must reach the point of recycling more than 50 percent of these products. But we can't even get this far in Budapest, because the selective waste collection islands have been liquidated by you, so the glass still has no place for the population to put it. The islands ceased, where the glass could also be unloaded, and the houses were equipped with only paper, plastic, other waste, and metal. The selective collection of glass has not yet been resolved in Budapest, and I think that would be quite a large amount of glass. We've gotten people used to getting them to the assembly islands, and now they have nowhere to put them. We see that today there are more than 170,000 people where disaster management has to designate the public service provider, because because of the impossible system, the waste management company that has done so far is no longer able to carry out the work. I wouldn't call that a success, and I wouldn't call it a good waste management system. We think that they should sit down with the profession, with these companies, with the parliamentary parties, and initiate an open debate on this issue. It would be fair and normal if we could openly debate this issue and create a system that is sustainable, a system that is good for everyone, good for the population, good for municipal companies, and, as I said, they must not be profitable companies, but they must be able to sustain themselves. It is not necessary to make these companies impossible so that they can einstand the wealth and everything else, but to maintain a normal system. I am very curious whether we will receive within weeks an amendment of the legislation on new waste from Fidesz, in which we see that everything is drawn to them and everything is einstantized. I very much hope that this will not be the case, but that you will finally hear the words of the people and the profession, in chimney sweeping, water utilities and waste management. That would be normal in a democracy, honourable Members. Thank you.
u2015-11-03-192	Thank you very much. Congressman László Földi, lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Now everyone agrees that the best waste is the one we don't produce. This is something that we should bear in mind in the proposal for a law on waste. The second is a cliché, but it is therefore deeply true that not all waste is also garbage. Selective collection and recycling of waste is therefore also our joint task and our basic interest. The three important proposals of the draft law before us have already been mentioned by the dear Secretary of State, my fellow Members, and I therefore do not wish to discuss this in particular, but I would like to mention that according to the 2014 EU regulation, it is also important for us, under Annex 3, which is dangerous or not dangerous, and the precise definition of this is also a key issue for re-use. My fellow Members also spoke about the collection vessels. I have to say that in our region, Cegléden and its surroundings, the municipalities have already taken decisions concerning collection vessels of 60 and 80 litres. These are already used by service providers, and they collect garbage in this. I am also pleased to note that there is an increasing rate of selective waste collection in our area, which has also become a key issue with the introduction of a new pot. I also think it is important to say that the bill, which is now before us, is trying to take the step that is to say that the public service is temporarily suspended because of the failure of the procedure for selecting service providers or because of the unlawful conduct of the contracting party. This could be very important in relation to local public services. Two basic conditions for waste management are continuity and sustainability. It is a public task which is one of the most important economic and public health interests. Waste management is therefore a shared responsibility of the population, the municipality and the State, requiring the smooth cooperation of these three actors. In this spirit, the bill we are discussing introduces important amendments, counting on the vote of the members of the legislation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-03-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-03-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the few fellow Members who are following you at this late hour, or at least present in the debate. A little more optimistic than my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, I say that environmental agendas are always put in the final item because they know that environmental policymakers are the most strategic in Parliament, and they are the best in training. So even in a late-night or night-time discussion on the subject they love so much, on environmental issues, right now, in connection with the Waste Management Act. It is a fundamentally eligible amendment proposal and all my fellow Members have placed this issue in a broader context. Indeed, according to Jobbik, the waste management public service is not functioning properly in Hungary at the moment. He's still too much of a downer. In the beginning, these regional landfills, or the whole system, have not been well thought out, in our opinion, and, in my view, in the European Union, in this form, they are not very much used elsewhere to transport waste to a landfill from more than a hundred municipalities or a hundred kilometres away. Unlike other opposition parties, we do not fear incineration, nor do we in Western Europe, and we believe that the amount of waste deposited could be significantly reduced by energy recovery. But that was said, if I remember correctly, in a previous debate with Secretary Zsolt V. Németh about something about the product prize, perhaps. So the government - now that Zoltán Elijah is out of the government - may move to be willing to apply modern technologies, otherwise of minimal risk to the environment, and not a minimum risk to human health, to the thermal recovery of waste. Then perhaps the amount of waste to be disposed of will decrease even further, and we can say that we have taken a positive step back towards disposal, although the EU waste hierarchy considers energy recovery only to be the last step immediately before landfill. Of course, it would be our goal, and for every sane, environmentally conscious person, that this waste hierarchy should be kept, that prevention should be the most important, and then there will be recycling in its material, energy recycling, and that at the very end of the line it will be laid down. But at the moment, unfortunately, the consumer society is not moving in this direction. The amount of waste generated - based on statistical data, the amount of waste generated by households continues to increase - is that, unfortunately, prevention must be treated as an illusion or utopia at the moment. This would require changing global interests, for which Hungary and the Hungarian government, I think, are quite small at the moment. But we in Hungary have to save the world - in quotes - here we have to achieve as much as possible in the field of environmental protection. Indeed, among the opportunities offered by Hungarian legislation, prevention could also be given much, much more emphasis. The government doesn't take advantage of all the opportunities in this. [[19.30]] In return to the waste management system, there is much more to be done, whether it is material recovery and, as I have just said, energy recovery. The fact that these regional landfill systems do not work is precisely the reason why the step that could make these facilities economical was actually missed, and this is the energy, thermal recovery of the fraction of the selected waste, and the recovery of the resulting heat or even electricity that does not appear in the current system. With regard to the collection of waste by the public, which is included in the bill, it is a positive, welcome proposal to settle the fee for smaller container sizes, just to get to the specifics. Of course, there was already a problem with the 110-litre or 120-litre collection pot on the table, and the law only included fees and charges, even though in reality there are real estate users, not only holiday owners, but also permanent real estate users, such as small pensioners living alone, for whom the amount of waste generated is less than the size of the vessel. For them, 60 litres or 80 litres may be sufficient to cover their needs. There is obviously scope for abuse of this, as with household waste in general, if it is not good either by law or by local government regulation, in such a way that someone announces or asks for less waste than is actually produced by him. That is why such a waste ring is still around many Hungarian settlements, because unfortunately, environmental awareness has not yet reached such a level that respectable less environmentally conscious citizens do not think about carrying this waste either to the edge of the forest or to the creek shore, in which they can be encouraged if it is not sanctioned or sanctioned in waste management legislation, but in order to be sanctioned, it is necessary to do so. If this is done in municipal territory, if there is no activism, then it is the municipality's duty to transport this waste for disposal. In general, the municipality does not have an adequate framework for this. There are also cases in Tapolca, specifically when talking to my fellow Member, Lajos Rig, that a complete lomis market collects its waste into a single 110-litre container, saying that he does not violate the law by announcing that he is producing waste, he asks the supplier for the container, and that the rest of the waste is uncontrolledly transferred to the public area, from which the municipality is to be taken at the local government's own expense. This is by no means an example to follow, and this should be corrected or corrected at the legal level. Turning to the other part of the proposal, which has been included in the EU infringement procedure, we should also look at the area of waste oil collection and hazardous waste in relation to waste oils. In the EU legislation at the time when the legislation was adopted, it was necessary to collect waste oils separately where technical, economic and environmental conditions allowed. Now this has changed in such a way that only technical conditions are taken into account. In the case of technical conditions, it is obviously also an economic function that can be arranged everywhere, so that it can be collected separately, and then there is an economic factor that comes in, what is the cost that a waste producer would accept in order to collect separately its own waste oils. If it is hazardous waste, we should continue to address hazardous waste from households. To date, a large number of people are not encouraged and generally do not encourage them to handle their domestic hazardous waste - whether dry batteries, burnt-out fluorescent lamps, expired medicines or even baking fat - properly and not to dump it in household waste or to dump it in the drain, as these potentially pose a major threat to the environment, because, although there is no large amount of it in one household, overall, there is such a large amount at national level that these waste streams should also be collected and disposed of, whether in domestic hazardous waste collection or in other forms. The fact that in stores where such products are marketed, they can be returned and returned free of charge, can be thrown into a collector of expired medicines used in the pharmacy, batteries, batteries or even used electronics equipment in the electronics store, but people are not motivated to do so. As I mentioned earlier, environmental awareness has not yet reached the level to do so on its own. So it would certainly also be necessary to settle this, I think, so that we can live with greater environmental awareness. I would like to waste so much more of this proposal, and I would not waste my fellow Members' time here any longer, that the Waste Act continues to distinguish between hazardous, inert and household waste, even though there is a huge amount of waste produced in industry, in the farming sector, which cannot be classified in any of these categories, because it is not domestic waste, but it is not dangerous, so a category of non-dangerous industrial waste, which, in the absence of better, I do not know where it can be classified as household waste or at the moment. Obviously you have the EWC code, you can get the correct classification from the waste catalogue, but as a legal category, industrial non-dangerous waste or non-domestic non-dangerous waste. So I don't know what kind of legal category this could be, but it doesn't appear in the law, even though it's a very large amount of waste. I wanted to make this point. Although, overall, we do not consider the system of domestic waste management to be good or the direction towards which this is progressing at the moment, if, however, we are faced with legislation or a bill that will bring about this bad system, but is moving it in a positive direction, we tend to take the view that it does not depend on us. Since we are not in a position to completely reshape domestic waste management legislation and move it in the direction that we, say Jobbik, would like to do, but we are not in the way of a legislative proposal that sets out, in part, a new level of space, a collection vessel level or other detailed rules for European Union requirements, and partly for reasonable reasons. So on the Jobbik side, we can support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches. Zsolt V. Németh applauds.]]
u2015-11-03-196	Thank you very much. We now have two-minute speeches. First Jenő Manninger, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-197	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Every time there's this debate, it's said by the MSZP that next week they won't take the trash, just the mayors. I think that has been said so many times that it is now really safe to say that perhaps we should calm down on this issue. If we look at the events of recent years in the field of waste management, then we can report results, because the most important thing was that the supply of waste is cheaper for people. This was part of the reduction of the rent after 2012. In the years before 2012, there was a significant increase in prices, with a price increase above the level of consumer prices every year. So it became cheaper for people, that was the goal of the government, the Fidesz. So I think that's the most important thing when we talk about it. Moreover, the quality of service has certainly increased, along with the problems, because collecting from the house means that progress has been made, even if there are really issues to be resolved. We heard about this at the committee meeting. So I think that's the most important thing. Perhaps I could tell my fellow Member that I have heard a lot of utility companies over the last 25 years, and when it came to a fee increase and they couldn't raise the fees like they did, they usually said that next week the service would be in danger. [[19.40]] I think we should always analyse the situation more carefully than that, and this has happened. There are problems, no doubt, just because we are talking about a market where in 2012 there was a two-and-a-half-fold difference between different companies in the supply of waste, so it depends on a lot of things. So we are actually dealing with difficult issues, but the service is working and there is a definite direction for further improvement. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-198	Thank you. Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik!
u2015-11-03-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not wish to comment, although my fellow Member Kepli mentioned this case in Tapolca, and it should be pointed out that the waste management organisation in North Balaton has a large waste collection plant in Királyszentistván, which collects waste from 130 settlements. It collects nearly 137 thousand apartments, with huge capacity, but with limited capacity. It should also be added that it has failed now in relation to projects that are likely to jeopardise its operation in the future. We mentioned that there are abuses in terms of space, so that someone uses a service for 120 liters and creates a lot more garbage. This is indeed true in those lomis markets, because most of the gypsies make a living, and the problem is that they cannot be caught in the act when these bastards are scattered in municipal territory. However, there is the other thing that one of my fellow Members has already mentioned here, that there is an opportunity for the municipality to conclude contracts for a smaller scale. This is what we need, especially for the 70 - year - old people, and for people who live in that apartment, according to their lifestyle and declared address, only two people because they don't produce trash equivalent to 120 litres of space. That's what we talked about. However, what has yet to be said is that the reduction of the rent has indeed caused some savings to the people living there, but the losses from the reduction of the rent are a shortage in businesses and even in public companies, and it is therefore very difficult for them to put down their share in a KEOP application, for example, and this is the main threat. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-200	Congresswoman Anita Beringes!
u2015-11-03-201	Thank you very much. I didn't think my fellow Member Manninger paid enough attention, because I told him that the mayors would stick to this system to the last of their blood to take the garbage away, so at the moment it's an unsustainable system. With all the arrogance you can stand on your face, you can sit here, my fellow Member, the problem is that I think you have just given a speech that will not be able to achieve einstantisation of these companies. So I think you should consider how you put it, my fellow Member, because in the end, something completely different will come out of this. These mayors will last as long as they can, and they will operate the system as long as they can, with as many fees, taxes and contributions as possible, will cause the system to function unsustainablely, because after a while, if these instruments are destroyed, there will be nothing to replace these instruments, my fellow Member. The problem is, I'm really afraid that they have one goal: to completely destroy the system, and then to get it to the state itself, to einstand, as they say to us. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-03-202	Now there will be normal speeches, but no one has come forward for this, but for two minutes, yes, and since there is no normal comments, there will automatically be another two-minute round, in which it is Mr Manninger who wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-203	Thank you very much. I would just like to note that I did not smile; I smiled at my fellow Member's speech because that is what he always says. We've heard it a lot, so I think we've been hearing from committee meetings for months that garbage shipments are about to collapse. I think that this statement that you are saying, along with, of course, that I think that there are a lot of problems that are waiting for a solution, so, no doubt, both from the municipalities and everywhere, we know that this is a problem. Of course, farming is always a problem. But the reason I suggest to my fellow Member - I do not want to talk about it here - is that he sees the question in a little more ways, to read the State Audit Office report, because it says very interesting things about companies. So I think that, of course, there are issues to be solved, and I wanted to draw attention to the fact that, in spite of all the problems that we have, which we have to discuss and the government has to solve, the most important thing for people was that service charges have fallen, and that there have been and will be a lot of extra elements in the service, as I explained, that we also have a duty, because EU regulations apply in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-03-204	Honourable Members, Of course, everyone has the right to make use of the right to speak. I suggest you discuss the subject, the subject, and not each other. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik!
u2015-11-03-205	Thank you very much. Following Mr. President's advice, that is precisely why I asked for the floor. I do not assume that the faction to my left or to my right, or anyone else in Hungary, wants or is intended to create conditions in Hungary for the transportation of waste, such as those on the streets of Naples, when garbage transportation as a service simply ceased, and covered the streets with the eyes. By the way, according to the new Fidesz government bill, only state and municipal majority-owned companies and political parties clearly have the aim of ensuring that trash shipments operate in Hungary as a service. That's what mayors do in particular. I believe that there is a consensus on parties in this. The way in which we imagine how this system can be made operational and who is pushing it, let's say, through its potentially irresponsible actions, to the limit of its ability to function is another question. But in order for the Hungarian population to get the waste services at a reasonable price, at the best possible price, so that this service is a fixed and always sure service, so that the garbage car should be there every week at the same time and take away the garbage, this is in the same interest of all Hungarian citizens, and it is in the same interest of all Hungarian Members of Parliament. So I think that this is what we should be working on, and that is precisely why I said in my ordinary speech that, until we move in a direction that brings the existing options out of the current system, so until we take steps towards thermal recovery of waste, civilly called waste incineration, we still have untapped opportunities that can make waste transport even more economical and cheaper for the Hungarian population. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-206	Thank you. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2015-11-03-207	Thank you very much. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member Manninger on one small matter. On the one hand, I am sorry that you could not support the resolution proposal when you think there is a problem in this system. It has its charm that the State Audit Office's briefing will be brought here and distributed to us just before the legal trial, confirming why you think these companies will have to be plowed. I would like to say one sentence that says a lot about the SAO report, by the way. Obviously, this is their job to write this down, but just to say that you will have to levy charges that people will be able to pay, I would like to quote one sentence from the SAO report:. According to the SAO's audit experience, two thirds of the nine companies providing the waste management public service did not comply with the legal requirements, as they did not initiate the recovery of the fee back to the notary as a means of tax. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You know, my fellow Members, this is the whole drama. People cannot pay this fee at the moment, and this is what the SAO describes, that the leaders of these municipal-owned companies, the mayors, have acted as human beings. If this can be raised as an SAO, that's okay, but as a Member, I think it can't be considered right. Thank you.
u2015-11-03-208	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated his wish to react. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh has the floor. [[19.50]]
u2015-11-03-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start by thanking you for the quality of the debate, but I must be honest with you that this last comment prevents me from doing so, because it was an incredibly demagogic thought, Congresswoman. Because if people can't pay the fee now, then why would they know it in your time? Because due to the reduction in the rent, the fee is now less than it was at your time. That was an amazing, unsubstantiated thought. By the way, I dare say that the entire waste management in Hungary is effective, also compared to the neighbouring countries. Of course, we can provide examples from Western European countries whose indicators are not yet reached, but especially in the context of Lajos Kepli's comment, I find it remarkable that we are constantly stuck in the public service debate, even though it does not represent a quarter of the total amount of waste. So it is very important to pay attention to the other elements, such as construction demolition debris, or the industrial waste mentioned by you, which have much greater potential to exploit. Let me give you an example: in ten of the ten countries examined under EU legislation, uncontaminated land is waste. So we can all see that there are other solutions to be found here, such as qualifying it as a by-product in some procedure, and we will certainly bring these regulations back into the waste legislation. But now the proposal tabled was a transposition of Annex 3 to the Waste Framework Directive, and there was no major debate in this House, and I will not comment on that. I'll tell Anita Heringes again, if you tell me a hundred times, I'll tell you a hundred times that in Hungary there is no emergency care in any settlement, there is temporary care and there is no unoccupied settlement. It's been a very long 24 hours, we've been listening to this for almost a year now, it's the end, it's going to collapse, it's not taking away the waste. But they're taking him away, they're taking him away ever since. I'm not even close to saying there's no problem in this segment. There is a temporary situation, which we hope will be completed soon, the government is working on a concept of public service, which will soon come before the House. In the meantime, however, we will provide the service, for example, now that if you are involved in government.hu, you will see that we will provide 3.3 billion to the public services again, you can submit their applications to ensure their operation. You talk about the public services, the municipalities, and we talk about the residents who use the service. Once again, it may be unpleasant to operate in this situation today, to work for the head of a public service company, a municipal manager, but it is quite pleasant for the user of the service because he is getting a better service at a cheaper rate. And now this law is about taking another measure to make this cheaper service even cheaper. It is not just what Congressman Rig Lajos said that the municipality has the possibility of a smaller vessel, but the company has an obligation to offer the possibility of a smaller vessel, 60 or 80, the 60 to the individual residents and the 80 to other persons. The reason for this is that we believe that not only regulations, rules, and obligations must be imposed on the inhabitants to carry out selection, but also to make it worthwhile. It is worth it if he selects, separates paper, metal and plastic, collects separately, and then obviously there will be less waste in the mixed dish, and therefore pays less. That's what we're gonna enforce now. The method of calculating this fee is laid down in this law. This has otherwise worked in places where they have done so even without law, and as a result, the amount of waste collected separately in Hungary will increase significantly. As long as it was 34,8 per cent in 2010, in 2014 the amount of recyclable waste exceeds 40 per cent. We're gonna hit 50 percent! But this is important not because the European Union requires it, but because it is part of our civilised life to use plastics and to ensure sustainability. Let me give the congresswoman a piece of information: in the case of glass collection, there are indeed problems. In this respect, two pilot programmes will be implemented in the country. Increase the amount that can be used for the glass. Despite the fact that the service providers have closed several points in Budapest, it is currently possible to do so in 600 places. It seems that this is still little, which is why we are looking for the possibility of ensuring the use of glass in the event of this stream of matter. All in all, thank you for your contributions, your commitment to the environment of all Members and Members. And I trust that if the law is brought before Parliament - this is absolutely not excluded - they will accept it with similar enthusiasm and commitment to the environment. Now I trust that you will continue to support this proposal after a detailed debate if it comes back to this House. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-03-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr Gergely Kulcsár, Member of the Parliament, Jobbik, has applied for a post-meeting speech:. How much does the government's defence policy serve our country's interests? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-11-03-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As is known, at the NATO Summit in Wales in 2014, Member States decided on a contingency action plan in which they would set up a management management central system in seven countries of Eastern and Central Europe due to increased security risks. As a result, the government voluntarily offered the opportunity to set up a headquarters to coordinate NATO's rapid response forces in Székesfehérvár, thus putting our country at unnecessary risk. It is now clear that what the government initially tried to present as a design office is a NATO command of 40, which, in coordination with the extremely high standby forces, intends to establish a fast response quota of 5,000 people in our region, which could be used for mobilization within 48 hours. This was recently decided at the meeting of NATO defence ministers a few weeks ago, so we can treat this as a fact. It is clear that the development of US military operations in Central Europe, the development of the Kecskemét and the papal air base, the coordination system that spans Central Europe is not a defence development, nor is it what I have just mentioned, because these aggressive, demonstrative steps of NATO leadership in the US, as well as continuous arms deployments, stations and ever-increasing military exercises, are not designed to solve the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, to alleviate the situation, but can lead to escalation, thereby endangering Hungary and the countries of the region. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that rapid response forces and their centres can be a primary target for an armed conflict and can also serve as targets for terrorist forces in the Islamic State. As we know, our government has sent our soldiers to Iraq irresponsiblely against the Islamic State. We would expect an answer from the defence leadership - we cannot expect an answer now, since there are no government representatives here - to the questions that our leaders, members of the government, do not think that unconditional service of the American geopolitical goals puts our country in pointless danger. [[20.00]] Do you not believe that, by voluntarily offering NATO the establishment of the headquarters, our country will not be a target in a possible conflict, thus endangering Hungarian citizens? I could talk about a lot of other things about defence, including participation in the Baltic airspace protection, which is also risky, or the V4 battle group about Ukraine's revenue, but life rewrites things, so today's news on one of the Internet portals is that István Dankó, the current Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, has a position as Chairman of the Board of Directors of four state companies in addition to his work at the Ministry of Defence. In the summer of 2014, István Dankó, appointed Minister of State for Public Administration in January 2013. This is also demonstrated by the chairmanship of the Board of Directors of four state-owned companies controlled by HM. With this, practically one-handed concentration of the Hungarian military industry has been achieved. In addition to the salary of the Secretary of State for nearly HUF 1 million, in one of the four companies he is entitled to HUF 500,000 and in the other HUF 230,000, and in the other two companies he will be reimbursed to the Secretary of State. It is also interesting, which is also mentioned in this article, that these companies have won a number of public procurement contracts worth billions of forints in total. The procurement office is also supervised by the State Secretary of Administration, István Dankó. That means he's got a direct influence on her. He consents to the conduct of the procedures, he can learn all the information about the customer's and the applicant's side, which virtually precludes other companies from having equal opportunities in public procurement. We have concerns about this. According to the legislation in force, a person in a position of contracting authority may not be an official in a company which is entered in a public procurement procedure. Therefore, the State Secretary could not be the principal and contracting authority of a public procurement procedure at the same time. We're looking at a serious conflict of interest here, and we're looking forward to the portfolio's position in this case. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-212	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik, spoke with the title "I." Here you go.
u2015-11-03-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first half of my address refers to the book of Jean-Paul Brighelli, which is condemned to the stupidity about the programmed death of schools. Speaking of the problems of school affairs, as many opinions speak, but perhaps everyone still agrees that integration programmes play a cardinal role in catching up layers that have fallen from the majority. However, their proper development has been discussed several times. The importance of this matter should be a priority, since poorly executed integration can easily reverse and not only smooth out social conflicts, but the multiplely disadvantaged layers are only more frustrated, and the social groups set as standard - let us say, with full rights - become even more shut-down. If integration is all about bringing people together by force in various stages of social co-existence, then things can easily reverse, and permanent failures can lead these processes to the dead end of increasing tensions. In the more advanced, richer states of the European Union, more professionals are involved in a reduced number of classes where the proportion of students who are disadvantaged and need to be integrated does not exceed the proportion of students who are modeled as integration. But seeing the ever-growing Western European, no go, the increasingly dangerous ghettos, we can say that this superhuman pedagogical work is still not a great success. Unfortunately, it is necessary to establish factually that not everyone can be integrated, because, despite his will, no one can be happy, and social inclusion, like most things, is also not a one-factor process. To stay on the domestic ground, even Ferenc Glatz, who was difficult to accuse of far-right inclination, believed that the integration of the minority and the majority has real social, cultural and customary difficulties, not because of prejudice, but because of the real problems of Gypsy and non-Gypsy coexistence. In addition to the state spending, often set up as a deus ex machine, integration also implies enormous individual will and determination. All due respect is to those who can do this. This is what Brighelli does in his book, when he writes about the high educational districts introduced in France and pumped with huge amounts. The family role models of these teenagers are criminals, their pets are pit bulls and rottweilers. They get to know easier drugs in elementary school, but there's nothing else. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But you don't have to go to France to get similar examples, as there are so many village schools in Hungary and urban vocational school where teachers fight almost hopelessly in our country! It would be unfair to expect a solution only from them, it would be unfair to expect a kind of public benefit from the role of overburdened, PÖCS, I mean, of portfolio frustrated educators with BECS. While public education institutions have a major role to play in integrating diversely disadvantaged social groups, the road to success requires further important economic, social and political conditions. By the way, I myself taught for ten years at a vocational school in the countryside, in a typical gladiatorial school - the students called it that - where the proportion of gypsy and cumulative disadvantaged or disadvantaged students is very high. And without any Pharisee piety, I must say that no Hiller or Hoffmann's pedagogical medal is equal to the joy of a former student saying hello to me from afar on the street or waving at me from the deck of a garbage truck. Really, by the way, what to say to students whose second generation has grown up without seeing parents go to work regularly, and their days have, at best, been temporarily structured by community service. The country has fallen into poverty because there is no work and no perspective. How would it be, say, in a county where half the settlements are dying, it's Somogya, and in a few decades we'll only see traces of these settlements in historical atlases. The way out can only be to create jobs, but here again education has a big role to play, because without labour development, job creation that suits the needs of the age is also unthinkable. It could be very simply said that there will be no work if there is no education, no knowledge, no competences, and that the social integration of Gypsy and broken layers can only lead to school and work. But in an article written five years ago, Konrád Solomon sees the crisis of European civilisation in a domestic school case in crisis. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If I may, Mr. President, I'd like to read this quote. Konrád Solomon writes that the Hungarian school system has collapsed, respect for isolated exceptions and teachers who want to endure in impossible circumstances. It collapsed because schools are largely completed or abandoned by the masses of uneducated and uneducated young people who are not fit to work and refuse to comply with the most basic rules of social co-existence. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-03-214	Thank you, too. Congressman, I think you appreciate my appreciation for your request. And as a personal concern, I can't ask myself to speak. [[Defiance.]] - I wouldn't have asked anyway. I'm just telling you this. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 8:08 p.m.]]
