u2015-12-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 28th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-1	Honourable Parliament! Mr President, On behalf of and on behalf of the Government, I would like to report to Parliament the conclusion of the 2007-2013 development cycle. I would like to inform the Parliament about the closure and ready reporting of the development work carried out in 2007-2013. In political terms, everything that has happened in the last seven years can be summarised in the fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party has planned and made it impossible to draw EU funds, we have saved and paid the funds available. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Wow! There's a lot of information in the same place. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] I would like to report to my fellow Members that, according to the daily exchange rate, Hungary has made available some HUF 8600 billion in the last seven years, of which Hungary has concluded a development contract of HUF 9536 billion, and we have paid HUF 9041 billion out of 9536 billion today. I would like to indicate that 940 billion forints out of 9041 billion were paid in 2010 on the day of the change of government. All that has been paid over, it praises the work of some 3,000 state employees, thousands of private officials and thousands of municipal officials in the last five years, to whom I would like to thank for this work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On behalf of the Government, I am calling on the Honourable Parliament to sum up the conclusion of this development cycle and the lessons learned from its closure during the spring session in 2016, the lessons learned from development, and to draw its balance from the legislative process. At the same time, Mr President, I would like to inform you and the honourable House of Members of the following matters. In these seven years Hungary paid HUF 2500 billion into the European Union register, and in 2004 the association agreement gave up a very significant portion of its independence, in particular market protection, trade policy autonomy, the possibility of free and possible customs duties, which clearly also had economic consequences. At the same time, we can say that the country has evolved over the last seven years, thanks to this money, although we can add that the euros paid by the major European contributors will be doubled for them, which Germany will pay in one euro, and will also get back two euros from Hungary. So the European Union's contributors also benefited from the Hungarian development. I would like to tell you that 133,000 applications have been submitted, 73,000 winners have been awarded, 43,000 are candidates, of which 28,000 are companies, 25,000 are municipal, civil and state programmes. I would also like to tell you that Hungary has built and renovated a total of 236 kilometers of railway during this period, a total of 1066 kilometers of bicycle roads, a total of 537 kilometers of completely new roads have been built, and the renovation of 2849 kilometers of roads has been completed. Since 2010, 500 thousand new jobs have been created in Hungary, of which 134 thousand jobs have been created with the support of the European Union. 28,000 small and medium-sized enterprises received aid. We spent 366 billion on R &amp; D, tourism development 314 billion, 197 billion on the modernisation of public administration, and a total of 1651 billion on business. 521 schools and 20 universities have been renewed. 163 hospitals were renovated and renovated. With the support of the European Union, 1.3 million people from the adult population of Hungary received training to return to the labour market and develop knowledge. We solved the sewage treatment of about 5 million people's homes, solved the flood and inland water protection of 3 million people, and provided healthier drinking water for some 7.9 million people. I would like to inform you that in 2013 we had a substantial restructuring of the institutional system, which allowed us to pay HUF 2400 billion this year, thereby contributing to economic growth. I would like to reassure the population of the country - and, in particular, its opposition representatives - that the regularity of the use of money is fully consistent with the European Union's average, after spending HUF 9000 billion, the European Commission found error in less than 2 percent of the programmes with 73 thousand successful applications. I would also like to say that there are no more investigations because there are more mistakes, there are more investigations because there are more complaints from you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] After 2010, opposition parties introduced the cult of the complaint, but the programme is still a success, especially for pro-government workers and workers. [[The president's ringing again.]] and thanks to Parliament's support. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-2	Dear House, The political groups may respond to Mr Minister's speech before the agenda in a two-minute time frame if they wish to make use of this option. Dániel Z. Carpathian came forward. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-3	Mr President, Dear House, With regard to the latter development cycle, I can very much identify with János Lázár in his statement that Hungary has given up a significant part of its independence in the past, and that this catastrophic situation has been followed by a system of consequences that cannot be described as a success story for Hungary, but has led to a qualified case of euthanasia, and we cannot resolve this situation without resolving and renegotiating our relations with the EU. We see perfectly well that more than 95 percent of development resources are made and paid in Brussels or in the EU. We also see that many decorative tiles do not have a very broad economic impact, no productive jobs, and we also see that they have not been able to start anything on their own, whether it is a state-based home creation programme or a tax system that supports production that builds on our own resources, and is finally not trying to keep the Hungarian economy as efficiently as possible on the Brussels umbilical cord on which it is otherwise only insuffering. After all, I agree with one more statement, it is true that the German economy, the western economies, are very, very good for them to be present in Hungary in a very favourable economic climate you have created, in a pleasant climate, and on an annual basis, thousands of billions of people can be untaxed from the Hungarian economy, while you cannot stop migration, you have not been able to take any real action against the tragic size of the population, and it can also be said that if you look at the Hungarian population's salary, average wage level in euro, this has indeed decreased in euro in terms of recent years. So, not only could we catch up, we couldn't get any closer to the Western European level, but, unfortunately, we are at a point where the gap has deepened further. That is why I say that I agree with you, that you, the political elite - together with the previous one - have given up a significant part of Hungary's sovereignty, so we call on you to get it back, or if you do not, a Jobbik government will do it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-4	Next up is Zoltán Haughty.
u2015-12-14-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not polite to decorate with foreign feathers. [[Lajos Kósa: Zolika, sit down. Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You started your speech by putting all this behind you. And I think they've practically done what we planned, fortunately. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] And all they've done, for example, in school redevelopments - here is Minister, you can confirm [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] - like they went to initiation, which, of course, they didn't even invite the people who made that investment. That was true of many others. Mr. Secretary. What we saw in this implementation period, when you took over this development programme, was that friends became very, very intensively rich, that there were a lot of public procurement that only the same company could ever win, so in Hungarian, it may be a compliment to those who have done decent work in this work as civil servants or civil servants, but this is not what the government has done. What the government did was that, as in everything else in the current affairs - land, trades and so forth - it gave everything to its own friends, supposedly, to make a very, very good living out of the 25 percent. It's a flawed logic. We look forward to the programmes of the next cycle, because so far they have not been able to present anything new. So far, only the development policy that the former government has prepared has been carried out in Hungary, which you have not helped for a year, but hindered, because I did not like anything from the institutional system, which has worked perfectly in the meantime. [[13.20]] Not to mention how much investment will be thrown out of the window, for example, in agriculture, due to the very, very wrong economic policy that destroys companies, just because I don't like how they are now. I think, Minister, that this should be considered carefully, because it would not be good for it to belong to waste, for example, to a lot of irrigation and other investments in our profession, just because you do not think so. So I wouldn't be so proud of that, Minister. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-14-6	Mr János Harghitai, on behalf of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, On behalf of my faction, I believe that this performance, which the government has achieved, we have been able to draw 100 percent of these resources and we have paid for these resources. This is also a performance in the light of the fact that, even in 2012, the European Commission itself thought that Hungary would lose at least 25%, if not 30%, of its resources. That's what the Minister said. The framework, Congressman Haughty, no doubt you created it. Unfortunately, we could not change that; if we could, we would have made more efficient use of resources, because we would have spent it for other purposes than what you had planned. In order to succeed, the government has transformed the institutional system through which these funds are called down. It was an important step that we ended in 2013 outside the government, although the government-led National Development Agency and brought the managing authorities into the government itself, and by coordinating the Prime Minister's Office, we did everything we could to make the use of European money spin. In 2014, the growth of the Hungarian economy was 3.7 percent in the closed budget year, and what we were able to do about EU funds calls was a very important factor in this, and with which we were able to strengthen the speed of the economy. In Baranya - let's say not the centre of the Hungarian economy, but I will give you an example - only in the last year, in 2015 HUF 60 billion was drawn. This is a very important factor in a sick farm in Baranya. I too believe that all praise is due to those who have done work in it. On the one hand, because they were able to apply for local governments, civil society organisations and economic operators, and there is obviously praise for those workers and civil servants and government employees who have done everything they can to make this call for funds a success. I think we should do the same in the next cycle. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-8	I now give the floor to the representative of the LMP, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet.
u2015-12-14-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, It is not a success in itself if we draw all available resources; the question is what we have used these thousands of billions of forints for over the past years, how these funds have been used for the purpose of making society, people, live better, so that the economy can reach a sustainable path, so that gaps within the dual economy can narrow down. These are the main questions. We have found that these funds have not been used well. We also acknowledge that the government has built an almost perfect system for spreading EU money. This is certainly perfect; you could say that the theft continued, only the pocket changed. Ákos Hadházy, anti-corruption spokesperson for LMP, has revealed at dozens of applications that they receive hundreds of millions for non-existent or unnecessary services, often billions for the same companies in pre-furnished public procurements. Just one example: if the Prime Minister's son-in-law deals with the modernisation of public lighting, then the public lighting will be renewed in every city in Hungary. But the LMP also revealed the amazing expenses of the program for the work, from Opel Corsák's HUF 500,000 monthly lease to the HUF 30 million recruitment study, which may not even exist, and I could tell you more. At the end of the spring session, Minister, one of my questions, a comment, said that during the autumn an evaluation of the use of money for the last seven years would be brought in. I do not know if we can now believe that this will be replaced at the beginning of next year, and that Parliament can really get to know the details. In two minutes, you can't give a thorough, thoughtful opinion about the whole thing. You list data, so many applications, so many jobs. The opposition should also have time to give it a careful, thorough opinion on these issues. Thank you.
u2015-12-14-10	This is Congressman Manninger Jenő.
u2015-12-14-11	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz fraction and on the basis of the data we have heard and learned, it is clear that we can say that it is a great success. In itself, the call for proposals is a success because there was little precedent, and now there is a high chance that we will be able to draw down 100% of the funds. I can reply to Mr Haughty, that if we had continued the pace before 2010, we would not have been able to draw EU funding of HUF 3000 billion. As my fellow Member from Harghita said, the EU is also likely to be trapped by 25 to 30 percent. It was a good decision on the part of the government to change the institutional system, but it is thanks to those working in the institutional system that they made it possible to draw funds; in November alone, HUF 1859 billion was paid. And it was also a good decision to be able to take on the programs above 100 percent, as this was how it was possible to call down 9041 billion forints to this day, and this is how it will be possible to draw 100 per cent in the end, despite the remaining funds from the programmes. Of course, it is true that Fidesz's economic programme does not say that everything can be based on EU aid, but it allowed for a call of over 100 percent, and that also required domestic funds. Therefore, we do not want to base the next 35 years on EU aid, but it should be mentioned that this could also have a role in Hungary's catching up after 2020. It is true that the MSZP has committed much of the resources and it is true that the efficiency of the use of resources can be increased, and the next EU cycle will allow this. And who received it? 134,000 new jobs have been created and 28,000 small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited. I believe that this shows that many people in this country have benefited from EU funding. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-12	Dear House, The next speaker before the agenda is Mr Zoltán Gőgös, member of the MSZP faction: Here you go.
u2015-12-14-13	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd go on with what I just started because I thought I'd be number two, but I don't have any problems.
u2015-12-14-14	I'm glad.
u2015-12-14-15	This weekend, Prime Minister, he made an announcement that VAT would be reduced. Every VAT reduction alone should be welcomed, but we looked forward to the addition of the sentence about the built apartments that is, and the basic food. We expected this because if this story is about the expansion of about 3,000 apartments, which affects 11 to 12 thousand people counting about four people per apartment, then it might also be expected, after a success report, that the government should decide on something that affects millions of people. Millions of people who can't buy a new house, let alone 150 square feet or 300 square meters, because we have now seen the proposal submitted, which we will obviously have a big debate about, because a 32 paragraph law, which is about a lot of things, among them, is actually about VAT reductions, so once again: I don't think that too many people can buy apartments of this size in Hungary today. Minister Varga himself acknowledged this when he said that this could be roughly the current 7-9 thousand new housing stock with a maximum of 5 thousand units. I think that the government should now touch something that helps a lot of people with low incomes and low incomes live their daily lives, and in this we could create the biggest one together if we reduced the VAT on basic foods. Not all of it, because we do not need to help luxury and luxury consumption, so I recommend to my fellow Members - and we will obviously take advantage of this excellent opportunity that the government has opened Annex 3 to the VAT Act, in which there are items in a circle of 5 per cent - that we will submit an amendment to it, listing what foods we would like to reduce VAT are. [[13.30]] This proposal will not be new, we have said this many times, but I would like to repeat it so that everyone can understand what this is about: milk, semi-hard cheeses, white bread, half-brown bread, water buns, eggs, European freshwater fish, poultry and fruit, of course, what can be produced in Europe. There's nothing luxurious about it, no product that if you want to buy, you can obviously pay for it, but it's everything the average person consumes. You know, fellow Members, when people spend nearly 30 percent of their salary on food in the low income category in Hungary, there is no need to think about whether or not this situation needs to be changed. There are two ways we can do this. On the one hand, by raising salaries very intensely. We also have a proposal for this, we have repeatedly indicated; the public sector depends exclusively on Parliament, and the competition sphere on the regulation that reduces and takes back the pressures so that meaningful dialogue can be developed with market players. So we have these two demands. It's not new. VAT has been coming up for about six years since you've been in government. I know, and the answer to that will be that we had an increase in VAT. Yes, but we still used an 18-percent key to give the poorest people what it's like to have basic food, not the highest rate of VAT. I suppose Mr. Secretary will answer that question. I don't want to stress why we still need this. I'll show this picture to the Prime Minister tomorrow. [[He's showing me a picture.]] Now this is the unofficial farm where the meat processing and fishing shop cross, because the bone is also sold on the bones. I believe that it should be precisely against these scoundrels and scoundrels that they should not have a competitive advantage over decent businesses. But again, I would like to discuss this with the Prime Minister tomorrow in the immediate question of the papal meat factory. I only showed you this because in this company, not only the VAT is being stolen, but also the contributions. So when you talk about the big hole in the budget in the proposal that we are proposing, that is not the case. We calculated it, it wouldn't cause any loss in the medium term. I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-14-16	Minister Antal Rogán has the floor.
u2015-12-14-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by saying that today's speech by Mr Grimlock is, in my view, a school example of duplicity. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why?]] Because, honourable Member, who raised the VAT on food in Hungary? [[Zoltán Grimlock: The Fidesz, 27 percent.]] In 2002, when we handed over the helm, that was 12 percent, honourable Member. Who first raised it from 12 to 15 percent in 2004? You, honourable Member. Who then raised it from 15 to 20 percent in September 2006? It's you again, Your Honour. [[Zoltán Haughty: And who raised him to 27 percent?]] Who raised it from 20 to 25 percent in May 2009? It's you again, Your Honour. But let us see when you reduced your VAT and what it looked like, honourable Member. Before the elections, VAT was reduced. The general VAT rate was reduced from 25 to 20 per cent, and then, Mr honourable Member, as the elections ended, a month later it was raised from 20 to 25 per cent. [[Zoltán Gógös: You raised him to 27 percent.]] Honourable Member, I think that this is a true example of double-facedness. Then let us add that while you raised VAT, you even raised personal income tax, honourable Member. Even that one! So they were also able to take more money out of people's pockets not only through prices, but also through personal income tax. Because, honourable Member, when you closed the government, there was a semi-superbrutto institution in Hungary, which meant that even after the Hungarian families had not received personal income tax, half of the contributions paid by the employer were subject to personal income tax. Mr. Congressman, this is quite simply outrageous. They raised personal income tax, raised VAT, and then you talk about tax cuts? [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes.]] Honourable Congressman, Compared to this, when we started cutting the rent in the last few years, we did not undo it after the election. And now, when we begin to reduce VAT, I can tell you, Congressman, that what we have tabled in this bill, we promise that this VAT rate will remain so low for the next four years. That's how it's gonna stay, Mr. Congressman. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: But there are 50 new taxes!]] That is the big difference between the governance of the civilian government and your governance. You make a promise before an election, and then you take it back in a month. But I think people have learned that in abundance. Honourable Congressman, You shouldn't underestimate the reduction in the VAT on the apartment. First of all, Hungary has never had a flat tax this low. And while we look at the form in which the civil governments and you have supported home creation, here too, honourable Member, look deep into yourselves. Because when they took over the government pole in 2002, they inherited a state-supported housing loan system that boosted housing, made it possible for people to get housing cheaply in Hungary; then, when they came to government, with Péter Medgyessy at the front of the campaign, they promised that they wouldn't touch it, they wouldn't change it, but they practically destroyed it in two years. In return, foreign exchange loans were sent to the people's necks, which once again benefited the banks, because when it came to the fact that the foreign currency loan did not work, what you did here, honourable Member: you adopted a code of ethics for the banks. The code of ethics, while the instalments went up in the sky and the contracts were unilaterally modified. Such is socialist governance, honourable Member. We've had a chance to learn that. I am telling you that, compared to this, this VAT reduction can greatly help people in two things. On the one hand, it will help us to get apartments cheaper and also serve the goal that we have stated that together with several other measures that will follow, everyone in Hungary will have access to an affordable-priced home. The other very important thing, Mr President, is that it will boost the economy, boost construction and create jobs, which I also think should be our common goal. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What? The 3,000 apartments? This is a joke!]] Honourable Congressman, You're talking about how many apartments are built these days within the framework of what you've left behind for us to climb out of a hole. The performance of the economy now allows us to start again in a home-building programme. We don't think about what you want, we want to get there, as many apartments have been built in Hungary once, because there have been 40,000 housing constructions every year. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No need to live but to live?]] I think we should calmly set the goal of creating tens of thousands of new homes in Hungary at an affordable price for people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You should eat well first!]] I would like to ask you that, if, at your time, the VAT has not been reduced, just increased, you will at least now support this VAT reduction proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-18	I did not want to interrupt the Minister's reply, but at the end of this, I would like to ask the head of the MSZP's faction to submit a proposal for a derogation from the house rule next time, which says that if Mr Haughty rises to speak before the agenda, we will increase his time from five minutes to nine minutes, because then he may be able to say something in the time frame and not have to shout in parallel in the Minister's reply. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I just reacted to the Minister! József Tobias: It's going to happen!]] The speaker before the next agenda is Mrs Bernadett Szél, who cannot be celebrated by a government that is unable to keep the young people at home. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Last year, the news was released that Hungarians living abroad were sending home a record amount of money. We are talking about HUF 920 billion, which amounts to 3 percent of Hungarian GDP. That was exactly 43 billion forints more than a year ago. This number is an undisputed proof of two things. On the one hand, because there are many people out there, and this number is growing rapidly, on the other hand, it repeatedly defies Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister, who entertains Hungarian people with a feeling of romantic adventure and propaganda, according to which young people are only going abroad for a short period of time, out of desire for adventure. No, it's not like that. The LMP's retúr program pinpointed it, when nearly 5,000 people gave their views, and 70 percent of these people left our country because they could not make a living in Hungary. He needs higher wages, more opportunities and more success. Only 5 percent confirmed that it was driven by some kind of adventure, and the other 70 percent made a hard escape from bad Hungarian salaries abroad. It's a tragedy! It is a tragedy that Fidesz is building a Hungary where talent and diligence do not pay off, and it is also a tragedy that an increasing proportion of young people who are about to start a family feel that there are no conditions for having children at home, there are no conditions for starting a family so that they can settle down in the long term to live at home. [[13.40]] I think Fidesz cannot afford to pretend to be closer to why, when, how many Hungarian people leave the country. Because these people are paying the price for your bad decisions, and the whole of Hungary is drinking it, because this is how we will be a country without grandchildren. We believe that it must be steered in such a way that if a Hungarian man works with honor, he can earn a decent living from his wages. You don't think so. What we see is that in Hungary, built by Fidesz, Hungarian people are underpaid, wages are bad, stable jobs have not been created to provide a living. The Labour Code has succeeded in allowing the employer to do everything, but it takes everything away from the working man, and these are all the decisions of the Fidesz. Just as it was your decision, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that basically only the state benefits from raising the minimum wage or that the increase in wages in the sectors that have already been bled out is not going to happen. Just as it was your decision, ladies and gentlemen, in the pro-government ranks, that state leaders can bring home 5 million forints instead of 2 million forints, and everyone else can be nervous about whether or not their little money will arrive in time. Because many of the poorly paid, unreserved, working Hungarians have not yet received this undeservingly low wage in time. The state is simply delaying the payment of wages. Some people haven't been paid in six months, some people only get half their salary, others get lucky, you say they're only a few days late. It may not be a problem for the Secretary of State army here if you pay a few days late, but it is a huge problem for small-money working Hungarians. You guys spent the weekend, you know, talking a lot about what's moral and what's not. Do you know what I think is immoral? Don't give the working people their wages on time. Now, that's immoral. Let's be clear. While you have raised the wages of state leaders to HUF 5 million, the workers' poverty in this country is unstoppable. KSH has introduced an independent category to measure this, and we see that millions of people are now working in this country below the poverty threshold at the minimum. My position is that, and the LMP believes, if you work in this country with honor, you can earn a decent living from your wages. We tell the government that you may see Hungarian people as cheap, but you shouldn't look stupid. Because these people know exactly what they don't deserve. You know that this situation is unfair, this situation is humiliating and absolutely unsustainable. That's why these people are leaving Hungary. And I can say to Mr László Kövér, who teaches Hungarian women about the Fidesz Congress, that if you are disturbed by the demographic situation which also disturbs Hungarian people, that Hungarian families are unable to take on the desired children in Hungary, then it should be done so that 6 percent and 8 percent of Hungarian women of the best parental age do not end up abroad. I don't expect you to do that. To deal with centuries-old concepts. I don't think you can do that. I've seen that a lot. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Modestly!]] Therefore, all I ask of you is not to preach to us, but to raise wages, to be able to work properly and flexibly in this country, so that Hungarian women can work and work for their families at the same time. I can assure you that if the processes go in this direction, many negative situations will be resolved, for example, more children will be born in Hungary and fewer Hungarians will leave abroad. That's what I'm asking you to do, to make sure that if you work in this country with honor, you can live with honor and get paid in time. That's all we're asking.
u2015-12-14-20	Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Perhaps we can grasp his contribution to a series of ideas that are full of political exaggerations or even a series of ideas that are full of poetic exaggeration. I mean, the cases you brought up here, I don't know where you got them from. Statistical data proves the opposite of what you're saying. With some data, I'd like to deny some of the thoughts you've given me here. After all, he painted a mournful picture of the situation of young Hungarians in Hungary and their future. On the other hand, they keep silent at each such speech that the Hungarian economic and employment statistics show exactly the opposite of what you say. Well, there's something to tell, and there's something positive to say about it. The effectiveness of the Hungarian government's economic and employment policy measures is proven, as I said, by statistical data. Four months ago, the number of people employed in Hungary exceeds four million. The economy is on a long-term growth path, and this is also demonstrated by the fact that the economy is constantly growing, but also to look at what you have said here on the pay side, between 2010 and 14 real wages increased by 10.8 percent, taking into account the impact of the family tax reduction. In particular, the purchasing power of large family wages has increased far more than average. In the first nine months of this year, real wages have increased by 4.2 percent, so that rebuts what you said. The increase in the number of jobs will also definitely improve the position of young people at home. On several occasions, I had to say it in an interview before the agenda or on an immediate question, but I repeat here what I am about to say, I would like to list all the steps taken by the government to ensure that young people are employed as much as possible. And they have the result, since their employment rate in Hungary has risen from 17.6% to 26.7 percent if we look at the figures between 2010 and 2015. At the same time, the unemployment rate fell from 28.2% to 16.7 percent. So it is not true that young people cannot find jobs because they find jobs and have an increasing employment rate. For such a high employment rate, what I just said, was not an example before the crisis. The government will continue to do its utmost to ensure that young people find as many jobs as possible in Hungary. I would like to tell you two plans, two actions that have been carried out on this. Within the framework of the Job Protection Action, about 150,000 young people were helped every month of the year in 2014 and their jobs were maintained with the help of the Job Protection Action. The amount of the programme was HUF 50 billion, which is to be calculated from 2011. In order to further reduce the number of young people who do not study and do not work, around HUF 200 billion is available between 2014 and 2020, which can also be used to ensure that these young people who do not work, do not study, find work for themselves. In this context, we can help at least 180 thousand young people either by training them or by helping them find their place. In addition, the introduction of young people into the labour market is facilitated by the dissemination of dual training, so that they can learn the profession in working conditions and work as easily as possible. Moreover, it should be added that the acquisition of the second profession will also be free of charge, which again seeks to compensate for the expansion of skills and the lack of skilled labour. In addition, the number of companies participating in dual training is increasing in order to improve vocational training and to be as thorough as possible. In 2014, we spent more than HUF 31 billion on this. In addition, the government is working to ensure that as few people as possible get out of training. Therefore, we will also support around 7,000 students from 2016 in the framework of the school leaving programme. All of these programmes help young people to work on the Hungarian labour market as easily and effectively as possible. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-22	Ladies and gentlemen, Before we move on to the list of comments before the agenda, allow me, on behalf of all of us, to welcome Mr Tan Sri Datak Seri Panglima Pandika Amin Haji Mulia, President and escort of the Malaysian House of Representatives who are staying on an official visit to Hungary. I wish you good success and a rich stay in Hungary for your further negotiations. I now give the floor to KDNP's representative, Mr István Hollik: the whole course of Brussels against Hungary will give his comment.
u2015-12-14-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary and the Fidesz-KDNP, faithfully asked the Hungarian people about European traditions and the fundamental principle of democracy, modern-day migration and the dangers of migrant flooding. [[13.50]] They said that the borders, culture and life form of the country must also be protected. The government, with the authority of the people, defended the borders and did exactly what the common EU rules required it to do. However, the decision-makers in Brussels have not been able to accept that the Hungarian government has strongly supported its national interests. There's nothing weird about that, and we're almost used to it. We were also attacked because of the adoption of our first democratic basic law or the introduction of the bank tax. However, there is one difference now: unlike the practice of previous years, by the way, away from the noble traditions of democracy, they did not want to argue or argue. They simply tried to force their will upon us with all their pride and spiritual brazenness. That is what the compulsory resettlement quota is really about. However, Fidesz and KDNP, together with over a million and a half people, have now decidedly said no to all of this and have turned to the European Court of Justice. That is why we can now see that the European Balliberal elite has launched a full-time attack on our country in order to avenge us. Firstly, the European Commission has launched infringement proceedings for Hungary's asylum regulations. The horse's foot hangs out, you might say, just one example. For example, infringement proceedings have been initiated because they believe that it violates EU law to expel the applicant from the country during the course of the asylum redress procedure, even though EU law clearly refers this definition to national competence. The second instrument of the entire field attack is the European Citizens' Initiative of the European Civil Organisation called the European Humanist Federation, which aims to apply Article 7 of the Treaty. The Juncker Commission immediately gave the green light to this initiative. But interestingly, the Commission was not so sympathetic when civil society organisations presented a similar initiative on the use of language and autonomy of Hungarians living beyond our borders. That was immediately swept off the table. The third instrument is to support national pro-immigration political formations. A good example is that the company of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Altus, received another order from the European Commission. The findings that rank this support in the category of political corruption are not excessive. All of this is not a coincidence. The leader of the European Humanist Federation happens to be a member of the Belgian Socialist Party, and the organization has a thousand ties to György Soros, and we have also seen that the Brussels procedure against Hungary has been launched with the fact that, in fact, the provisions contested by the Commission are quite untruely calm, let us just think of the Tavares report or, let us say, unfounded attacks on the media law. I would like to point out that Hungary has been able to reduce its migratory pressure in a unique way by, at the same time, complying with all the relevant EU standards. From the picture outlined just now, it is clear that there are two great forces at work. Without the European Balliberians to vote, they want to lead our continent to a united European states filled with migrants and deprived of national identities in a strong grip on the spiritual shackles called political correctness, if it does not please European citizens, against their will. On the other hand, we Christian democrats believe in a diverse Europe in which colours are guaranteed by the national traditions of European peoples and the framework is given to our common life by Christian culture. We believe in a Europe of nations, they believe in a utopia that eliminates nations. You will remember Gárdonyi's work, Géza Egri's starry work, which describes in detail the action of Suleiman, where the soldiers of the Ottoman army simply walk into the walls of Buda disguised as interest, and then, at the end of the day, simply set the half-moon with a ponytail and disarm the guards of the castle. In the light of the lessons learned from this story, we ask the government to continue to stand up for our common values, Christian Hungary and Christian Europe, in spite of the unworthy attacks, the whole field attack and blackmail. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-24	Once again, Minister Antal Rogán has the floor.
u2015-12-14-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to reassure the honourable Member that the Government remains determined and does not, under any circumstances, accept the compulsory resettlement quota. We do not allow anyone above the heads of Hungarians to decide who Hungarians should live with in Hungary. We will not allow any otherwise illegal and illegal EU legislation to impose on us who Hungary has to accept, requiring us to know who they are who they can be forced to install into Hungary from Europe, Brussels. Therefore, according to the decision of the Parliament, the Hungarian Government has launched before the European Court of Justice a challenge to the legislation on compulsory resettlement quotas. The Minister of Justice has submitted the necessary action and we are waiting for the European Court of Justice to take its decision on this matter as soon as possible. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to inform you that the Hungarian Government is determined to find partners in this area. Between the Visegrád countries and the Visegrád governments [[Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] There has been agreement on the fact that the procedure for the compulsory resettlement quota does not in any way correspond to European traditions, to the spirit of the Treaty or to European legislation. Accordingly, the Hungarian Government is seeking contact with the governments that, together with us, oppose the compulsory resettlement quota, and, as appropriate, we are trying to act together against it, if not in a joint legal action, but in the various forums of the Brussels Commission and Europe. And here, honourable Member, allow me to open up a little bit more in front of this House. There are representatives in the European Parliament not only of the governing parties. There are also representatives of opposition parties in the European Parliament, and here I would like to ask the opposition parties to convince their own MEPs, if possible, to oppose a compulsory resettlement quota in the same way. In particular, I would like to ask left-wing Members not to support Brussels' position in the European Parliament, but to support Hungary's position. I think that there is much we can do in this case if the representatives of the Hungarian left stand by the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people's will. Honourable Congressman, I think it is now clear to everyone that in Hungary citizens who would otherwise support the compulsory resettlement quota are in a minority. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Both the polls and the petition launched by the government parties in the meantime make it clear to everyone that Hungarian citizens are opposed to compulsory resettlement. On behalf of the Government, I would also like to thank everyone, not only my fellow Members here in Parliament, but also those who helped with the petition, who have spent the last more than a month looking for our fellow citizens, who have taken the trouble to collect more than one and a half million signatures. I would like to thank everyone who supported the petition by signing it, because I believe that the petition is a matter of parties. Opposing compulsory resettlement is not simply a matter of pro-government and opposition, it is beyond that. I think that all sober Hungarians must oppose, by the way, deciding to introduce people to Hungary, that they did not ask the opinion of Hungarian citizens, and that Hungarian citizens could not decide. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to confirm that we believe that Brussels, the decision-makers in Brussels, should return to the democratic traditions of Europe in this area. Because, as the decision on the compulsory resettlement quota has been made, it can be called anything but democratic; because European citizens have not been asked about it, European governments have not been asked in advance, nor have they asked national legislation. We believe that the return to democratic core values and democratic procedure would only strengthen confidence in Europe and would make it clear that the immigration policy in Brussels has long since failed, and that immigration should not be dealt with as Brussels imagines, but should be the first to protect borders and create an opportunity for European citizens to decide for themselves who they want to live with and who they do not. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-26	On behalf of Jobbik, Mrs Dóra Dúró, we now have a meaningful vision instead of Habonyi's career model. It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At Fidesz's convention at the end of the week, several speakers were apprehensive about the phenomenon of young people not buying either the style or the politics of the governing parties. [[14.00]] On the other hand, Jobbik tarols among college students, and in the 35-year-olds, top-notch popularity lists. Of course, the reason for all this is that we provide solutions that are sensitive to young people's problems, that we develop real solutions, solutions, and that we do not offer them a habony model of careers. The first and most important thing would be real job creation in order to keep young people at home and promote their domestic prosperity. It should not offer young people public work that is forced to work abroad or does not provide a livelihood, but a meaningful job that offers them a decent living, preferably by creating productive jobs. In addition, the education system should not reinvigorate children, but shift them through difficulties, help them move forward, and make the Hungarian education system a driving force for social mobility. For example, it would be essential to increase the number of state-funded higher education places and a very important proposal from Jobbik's youth department to ensure that the first language examination is free for all and, in general, adequate funding should be provided throughout the education system. The intention of emigration from Hungary is the highest during your governance in the last 25 years; these are data that cannot be debated, but the consistency should be deducted from these. It is not that Hungarian young people want to go abroad for a few years because of study, language learning and experience, but that they are planning a long-term or permanent establishment abroad, so we lose the well-trained workforce who will start a family abroad and who knows if they will ever come back to Hungary, who knows whether we can use their knowledge or not. The Jobbik would also help young people to start a family. This is also a very big problem, as the difference between planned and born children in Hungary is very large in international comparison, so there are a very large number of young people in Hungary who cannot deliver their planned children. It would therefore be essential, for example, to reduce the VAT on articles needed to raise children to a minimum of 5 per cent, and to promote the employment and employment of mothers. But I could also raise the issue of the creation of a youth law, which is not only a professional issue, but also a matter of credibility for you. When he was in the Fidesz opposition, he constantly demanded that the socialist governments of the time, such as the Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, establish the Youth Act, as Hungary desperately needs it. It's been five years, and you've been ruling ever since, and the Youth Act hasn't been passed yet, and they haven't even done that for the sake of the young. That's the XX. The mentality of the century, to which Hungarian youths say that they do not want it, is the attitude that is rejected; or that is XX. 20th century mentality about the proposal for a resolution to eradicate child hunger when Peter Harrach said that the only reason he did not support this initiative was because it was submitted by the opposition. This is against Jobbik's 21st Amendment. The political culture of the century, which looks exclusively at the content of a proposal and that it is in the interest of or contrary to the nation, is in the interest of or contrary to the interests of young people, and is judged on this basis. If we look at the political reinforcements and the comparison of the youth organizations of the parties, we can see that János Lázár himself said, referring to Fidelitas, that they are ambitious young people. On the other hand, the value-based, movement-based community of Jobbik's youth group, which turns to young people on a movement basis, provides answers to their real problems. This was the campaign on student loans, the campaign on student work, the campaign on the difficulties and challenges of having children, the Hungarian Youth Code or our latest publication, the Book of Minds [[He's showing it to me.]] which helps young people to find their way in the world of politics. And as long as they wonder here in Parliament or among themselves, whether Zsolt Semjén, whether or not by texting Viktor Orbán, young people will continue to see the party of old politicians in Fidesz. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-28	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-12-14-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In recent weeks, Béla Kovács has become the best-known politician in Jobbik. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Which is why I see here in Parliament that Jobbik is bound to want me back... [[István Szávay intervenes.]] - he wants to go back to the time when he was called the right-wing youth community. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] when he was young, but in the last few weeks, when he called me KáGéBéla, he had a strong secret service record. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Russians among themselves!]] In Russia, a gentleman with post-Soviet relations marks Jobbik, well, then Jobbik needs a little wrinkle lift, and it is worth bringing up here in Parliament a few words that show in rhetoric how modern and youthful the Jobbik party is if its money is still in the XIXth century. He collects this party in a century or worse way. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you were not here, you would be sitting in the Hungarian Parliament, but in another parliament, like Poland, or sitting in Bucharest, in the parliament there. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What Is Your Answer?]] I'm sure you'd say it with even greater vehemency. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] that, in Poland, 6 percent of young people are emigration, the Hungarian model should be followed, because there is only 2. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Or you could say in Romania how much better it would be to follow the example of our western neighbor, since the exodus of young people from Hungary is five times smaller than from Romania; and it could still be classified (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). ) either Baltic or other examples [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Or you could say in Romania how much better it would be to follow the example of our western neighbor, since the exodus of young people from Hungary is five times smaller than from Romania; and it could still be classified (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks). ) either Baltic or other examples (Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.) the extent to which young people are emigration from other countries that joined the European Union together with Hungary. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) Obviously, it is also important for us that this 2 percent of young people return as soon as possible, but if you look at the situation in other countries in similar economic situations and in similar social situations, you can see that there are three or five times the proportion of young people travelling abroad or the proportion of young people working abroad. In the case of many, the payment of a larger amount, the payment of a larger debt or currency loan was the reason why they went abroad to collect so much money that they could pay that debt. The foreign exchange credit backup, the end-payments helped them exactly so that no one would have to go abroad. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Or you said that it is important for many to have children here for financial reasons. Madam Member, you have the opportunity today, and also tomorrow. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: To give birth?]] to vote in favour of reducing the VAT on the construction of apartments. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Or why did Jobbik fail to support the family's home-building discount? You said that families want to have more children. Why didn't you support the family's home-building discount so you could explain to them that you didn't do this? Or we could talk about expanding crèche benefits. [[Dóra Dúró: Well, we could talk about that.]] the mini-cradle, we could talk about the work cradle or the new categories that are being created. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] , precisely to make the child's placement more flexible in addition to having children. You know: in kindergarten and kindergarten 318 thousand children get to eat free of charge, and between 700 and 800 thousand children get textbooks free of charge. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The juice is cheap!]] These costs are not borne by parents in Hungary. There may be two or three Scandinavian states where these costs do not have to be paid to a similar extent, but in the rest of Europe, whether they look further west or south, these must be the case for all families. But the same can be said of the development of Student Loan2 or admission numbers in addition to foreign exchange credit saving. What you're saying is not true, Congresswoman, the recruitment numbers have increased from last year to last year. [[Dóra Dúró: How much compared to 2010?]] And last year, they were about the same size as this year. And you can also talk about the free language exam, that Jobbik will give it to you, honourable Member, but it does not have to be given, because through graduation, young people will get a certificate equivalent to a language exam free of charge, and then they will have their language exam. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] When you graduate, you know that, but the 2010 record is stuck in Jobbik's campaign machine. [[Dóra Dúró: It wasn't even that at the time!]] And he still speaks the same words, while, of course, for young Hungarians, this is already an opportunity for those who want to make use of it. And Jobbik, I think, needs this little booklet, which you have shown, because in my opinion, the most characteristic of confusion is Jobbik, because they started as a party to the Hungarian national interest, but as we see their parliamentary votes, they often serve the Russian national interests rather than the Hungarian national interests. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Paks! Paks!]] as if their interest is leaning towards Moscow in Brussels and here in Budapest. I trust that I would not send the right-wing young Hungarians to Moscow, and I think they have a better vision. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I would like to talk about the national talent programme very briefly, because we have doubled the resources of this programme because the talented young person in Hungary is up to HUF 1.5 million. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] He will also receive a free-use scholarship to expand his activities here. [[14.10]] And those who or their parents do not have the means to go on vacation, for example, we launched the Erzsébet program for them, and in the Unlimited! program they can also get to know Hungarians across the border. I think this is a coherent and secure vision for all young Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-14-30	Ladies and gentlemen, The chairman of the meeting is always in a dilemma about interrupting what the replying member of the government has to say just because the opposition is trying to prevent him from saying it. I just chose the latter one, which means I didn't interrupt. But now I am forced by the faction leaders, the distant Gábor Vona and András Schiffer to make the same proposal in another way. Please submit a derogation from the house rules so that you, the LMP and the Jobbik choir can yell at me when the Secretary of State or the Minister responds. [[Novák Előd: We didn't shout because we didn't understand!]] If you accept this by a four-fifths majority in the House, then you have the opportunity to do so, but I ask you... [[Novák Előd: It wasn't funny, that's why we didn't laugh!]] Try to convince Mr.Előd Novák that he is not in the pub among his good friends, but in the Hungarian Parliament. [[No one claimed it. Do I look okay?]] That's it. [[Defiance. There's a lot of noise from Jobbik's benches. The Foreman of Novak: Yes? Ibiza might be like this. The bar in Budapest is not like that!]] I give the floor to Lajos Kósa as the final speaker on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2015-12-14-31	Mr. President. Dear House, At the weekend congress, Fidesz adopted a statement on the mandatory resettlement quota and the migration crisis. We see this as necessary because every day, although we have talked about it many times, the comments in Parliament clearly show that there is a fundamental misunderstanding about the situation. The opposition representatives cannot distinguish the illegal immigrant from the Hungarian citizen who has his rights in Europe, who can decide where he wants to work. This is basically the MSZP, who are constantly talking about emigrants, although it is clear to the contrary that if a person lives as a Hungarian citizen with the right to work abroad for a shorter or longer period within the European Union, he is not an emigrator, but a European citizen. Furthermore, it is clear that there are so many lies about this issue that it does not hurt to draw attention to it constantly. After all, 340 thousand Hungarian citizens are currently working in the Member States of the European Union. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: And a bunch of emigrants!]] Three hundred and forty thousand! Before we believe what the opposition is saying is true, let's look at the facts. The Germans give the largest number of citizens over millions who are German citizens, but who do not work in Germany, but in other countries of the European Union. [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes, as a boss, as a manager!]] Obviously, because of the low German wages, the hopeless German economic situation, the total lack of prospects. From this point, it is clear that there is a misunderstanding or a conscious lie that is trying to deceive Hungarian citizens from the ranks of the opposition. This is basically true of Jobbik and LMP. [[Constant, loud noise in the opposition benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] While ignoring the fact that 110,000 of these 340 thousand people are day-to-day commuters, there is no way to accuse them of living on a permanent basis in different countries of the European Union. And they're also ignoring...
u2015-12-14-32	I would like to ask my fellow Members to allow the Group leader to say what he has to say.
u2015-12-14-33	... that from 1990 to 2004, while we were members of the European Union, there were 220 thousand Hungarian citizens who worked in different countries of the European Union, while this job was much harder than it was then. Compared to this, the expansion of 220,000 has been achieved by 120,000 to date. Thus, it is not possible to use at all the concepts that are completely consciously reconfigured by the opposition. Socialists cannot distinguish illegal immigrants from citizens living with European rights, while Jobbik and LMP, alongside the MSZP, are constantly expressing data and speeches about this which are simply not in a thank-you relationship with the facts. It's okay. That is why it is necessary to constantly stress what reality is in this regard. As with regard to immigration, we must constantly emphasise what reality looks like, as there will soon be a European Council meeting, where, just this morning, the Prime Minister informed the parliamentary factions about the Hungarian position, which remains extremely consistent. We do not accept, precisely for the sake of Hungarians who want to work elsewhere for a shorter or longer period of time, the proposals that would restrict European citizens' access to employment on the grounds of immigration, and that would make the rules applicable to them subject to a condition that actually undermines their possibilities. In the meantime, we are strongly attacking the idea of quota and consistently expressing the view that the compulsory immigration quota is not in principle eligible, the proposals from the opposition to accept the mandatory 120,000 resettlement - the socialists have proposed this in the debate on the law - because it is not a question of Hungary's capacity to bear the burden, but of whether we accept who others tell us who we have to live with permanently. [[József Tobias: You are in Parliament, Lajos, not in Debrecen!]] That is why I would like to propose to opposition colleagues: [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Pro-Paganda is not good! Logic bumper! The president's gonna ring the bell. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Come on, he doesn't understand what he's talking about.]] study the adopted policy statement of Fidesz. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-14-34	I'm asking if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[This is Antal Rogán.]] Minister Rogán has the floor.
u2015-12-14-35	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin briefly with what Mr Lajos Kósa Group Leader started with. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: How did Árpád Habony have money? Isn't that what's gonna happen?]] I have heard you in this House many times, saying that 300,000 Hungarians work in London alone. Compared to this, honourable Members, in the meantime, accurate data on the employment service in the United Kingdom has been published [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Everyone is announced!]] which does not apply to London, but to the whole of the United Kingdom. Turns out that there are 86 thousand Hungarians working in England. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Then everything is all right! Noise from Jobbik's benches.]] not 300,000. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the numbers you are saying must be divided by at least four in the Honourable Parliament, because that is at least what you are lying about. Let us also add that it is also clear from the same data that most of these did not establish a permanent address. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: How many people live in Ibiza?]] And he didn't set up any real estate like this. It follows that it has not settled permanently in the United Kingdom. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to what Mr Lajos Kósa has said in connection with the declaration adopted at the Fidesz Congress. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is an extremely important thing, and let us be honest about this: that there is a Schengen area within the European Union, within which the labour force flows freely, there is free movement of capital, and there is an opportunity for goods and services to flow freely without borders, I think that this is a huge opportunity for all European nations. We Hungarians have done very, very much and we have suffered so that Hungary can go this far. We have suffered a great deal so that Hungarian citizens are free to work in Ireland, England, Austria, Germany or anywhere else. In Hungary, very many people lost their jobs when we had to open markets after 1990, break down protective customs duties, and have not yet received substantial EU subsidies. This cost hundreds of thousands of jobs in Hungary. Companies are gone, everyone remembers that. Starting from the sugar industry, Hungary is at a disadvantage for many other services, my fellow Members. I think that we have suffered so that sooner or later Hungary can become a full member of the Schengen area, that Hungarians can also work freely and that we can use these market opportunities freely. I therefore believe that we must defend these values within the European Union, and let us say that this is what the Fidesz says in its statement, honourable Members, that we do not need immigration, if there is a labour shortage in Europe, but that we should resolve the situation of young people who are unemployed in Europe. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: With such an educational system?]] and create a job for them. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: True, but with such education!]] For our part, we can support a European policy, a policy in Brussels [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Not Brussels, Hungarian education policy!]] which creates jobs for young people in Europe and does not try to bring immigrants into the country by millions. I would also like to ask you to represent this, if possible. [[14.20]] Yes, Mrs Kunhalmi, who has been shouting here, I would like to tell you that your party represents the opposite in Brussels. You want your left-wing party family to bring immigrants to Hungary for millions and take jobs away from unemployed young Europeans. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] We would like the reverse of that, honourable Members. We would therefore like to ask you to support that, instead of compulsory immigration, large numbers of immigrants, we can maintain Europe's original core values, the spirit of the Treaty and the measures provided for in the Treaty for the future, so that we can preserve the Schengen area, otherwise preserve the free movement of labour, capital and services within Europe, and not be restricted by an irresponsible pro-immigration policy in Brussels. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]]
u2015-12-14-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-12-14-37	Dear Parliament, János Fuzik, Slovak national minority spokesperson for the speech following the agenda today; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: András Schiffer, LMP; József Tóbias, MSZP; Gábor Staudt, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. On tomorrow's agenda, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Attila Szabolcs, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Mátyás Firtl, KDNP; Ikotity István, LMP; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; Attila Tilki, Fidesz; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Rig Lajos, Jobbik; Előd Novak, Jobbik.
u2015-12-14-38	Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that Congressman Zoltán Gőgös has announced a violation of his immunity. The immunity committee examined the application and, at its meeting on 30 November, decided by a majority vote that Parliamentary MP Zoltán Gőgös's immunity was granted by the Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Court of Justice of the District has infringed the 11th Bpk.1734/2015. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I shall inform the Parliament that I have notified the President of the court of the decision of the committee. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now voting on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. By way of derogation from the house rule, I am initiating the Parliament to take action to strengthen the stability of the capital market on certain claims settlement measures T/8157. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's day. The proposal for a derogation from the house rule was made by T/8157/4. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I will ask the House whether it will contribute to the departure from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has contributed by 165 votes in favour, 2 against, without abstention, to a derogation from the house rules. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/8157. T/7401 on the amendment of certain road and rail transport and consumer protection laws. Following discussion of the Commission's report and its summarised amendment proposal, the draft law should be adopted. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The deadline for submitting amendments shall be one hour after the adoption of the Parliament's agenda. Dear House, The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/8196 amendment of certain laws in the context of economic growth. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the joint debate on tomorrow's meeting as the first item on the agenda before the decisions and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. So I will ask this House whether it accepts T/8196. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal by 142 votes to 25, without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 17 hours and 26 minutes. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting as the first item on the agenda before the decisions are taken, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/7832 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sports in relation to the safety of sporting events. The debate on the Commission's report and the summarised amendment proposed by the Commission and the decision on the summary amendment and the final vote will not take place at our meeting starting today. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. I declare that, on the basis of a derogation from the house rules adopted above, an additional hour is available for the submission of amendments, so they can be submitted for 15 hours 27 minutes. A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to amend Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code T/7825. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear House, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Gábor Staudt wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, There is a very important proposal before this House. [[Several Members are talking and leaving the Chamber. It's constant noise.]] The Judicial Committee did not support Parliament's ability to address this issue. So even though everyone here is halfway up, I'm trying to explain why we think this Btk amendment should go before the National Assembly. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Previously on Awkward... [[It's constant noise. Intercoms from Jobbik: Stop!]] Mr. President, if you could just... [[Crying from Jobbik's ranks: Reset the clock, Mr. President. The president's ringing the bell.]] Rest assured.
u2015-12-14-40	Welcome, fellow Members. My honourable fellow Members, who are leaving this room for an urgent public task, do so in as short a time as possible and in as quiet as possible. Congressman, let's give it a try, of course we'll count the time.
u2015-12-14-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Proposal submitted [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] is trying to respond to a case known as the "freeze-resistant borosgazda" case. Although I must tell you that it is not only applicable in this case, it is not that we want to initiate an amendment to Btk. in one case. It is a matter that has revealed a taxatological error that we must also resolve as legislators. I would remind you that the wine farmer was given seven years in the first degree, and the court also held that a life sentence could be punished. [[14.30]] There was also the possibility of premeditated, vile murder. I think that if such judgments can be made, then the law must also be wrong, and the legislation, it seems, is not good, because in this case, although it is not yet final, and in other cases, we have seen that it is necessary to change the laws in order to be absolutely clear to everyone who protects their property or whose property is owned by an intruder, an intruder [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] - thank you, Mr President - you will be offended, and the burglar will have to suffer it, and not the person who owns it or protects its property. You can't threaten people with life sentences, scaring people who want to protect their property. There are many ways in the world: there are places where the state tells its citizens not to hold arms, not to defend themselves, but they are protected by the state, and there are places where the state cannot reach, and in this case it says that I cannot protect you, but I give you the opportunity to defend your own territory. We can find such a special situation in Hungary when the state unfortunately does not protect its citizens, but if they do so instead of the state, they are facing very serious penalties. During the committee debate, it also turned out to me that if someone has a good lawyer, they can get away with similar cases, but I do not think that the solution is that those who do not have the money for the right lawyer can face serious prison sentences. As I have said, our motion can not only be used in the case of a wine farmer with antifreeze; it sends the message that it is not the person who is in his own territory who is either defending himself or the means he owns that are causing injury to the attacker. Our specific proposal is to ensure that there is no criminality for a person who, in his private dwelling or other enclosed premises, or in the surrounding area, has a means of harming the wrongful attacker that would not have occurred without the wrongful attack. It is important to stress that it is not a matter of installing preventive protection devices, but of cases where a person keeps a thinner in a brandy bottle, for example, because why shouldn't he do so in his own territory, or someone has to worry that if someone breaks into his car, steals his vehicle, and then suffers some sort of fatal accident, then he should be concerned that someone might want to prove that he was getting the brake out of that vehicle because he was tired of saying that his previous vehicles were stolen and that he was trying to send messages to the attackers. This may not have been his intention, however, but fear and anxiety may come to his head in the event of what happens if I do not place an instrument in my own territory, in my own fenced territory, or by means of different means - and not by means of defense - of a wrongful attacker, and we can get to the point where a person who does not want to suffer long or life imprisonment must put up signs within his own territory. This needs to be changed; this proposal is appropriate. If you wish to submit any amendments, let us face it. We would like this very important proposal to be put on the agenda by the Parliament and a decision to prevent these matters. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Each Member may now present his position within a two-minute time frame per group of Members. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz Group.
u2015-12-14-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In two minutes, it is likely difficult to summarize the nearly one-hour debate that we had on this matter in the Justice Committee. All I can tell you is that the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group does not support the inclusion of the bill in the series because it causes more problems than it solves. The weakness of the proposal presented by Congressman Staudt is that he really wants to make an attitude that is deliberate, a deliberate attitude, let us say, an act of injury to the victim, or rather an act of injury to the attacker. The Criminal Code, which was adopted by the National Assembly in 2012, contains in detail the rules on legitimate protection, among which there is the possibility of ex ante legitimate protection or preventive legitimate protection, but in circumstances where this protection instrument does not cause death, so it is not a means of killing life. So you can defend yourself against a wrongful attack. As you know before, in the new criminal code adopted, while in the case of an attack on a person, the law explicitly reverses the burden of proof, and in some cases, the accuser should prove that the defencer was not in danger of life, in which case his assets are protected by the person under attack, but in this case, the fundamental rule is that the death of the attacker cannot be caused by the defence device. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This was the agreement of the majority of the Parliament in 2012. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal raises a number of moral and philosophical questions, all the more so, as the situation in Hungary today is that in many cases the police cannot protect Hungarian citizens, in large part without their own fault, but of course there are professional problems. It is not that every person or every house should have a police officer, it would obviously be impossible even in a much better state, but it is what a citizen can do to the wrongful attacks that he or she or anyone else is facing, in terms of danger and physical integrity, or in the event of an attack on his or her property. If the police cannot protect it, the State should take other measures or regularise them, but at the same time the State will disband or do its utmost to disband organisations that are proven to be able to contribute effectively to improving public safety. Then what will remain, fellow Members? What is the state's expectation? What's the government's idea? Should we tie ourselves to our desks, put a razor-sharp knife on the table first, and then wait for our fate to be fulfilled in such a way that the criminal passing by will slit our throats? Obviously, this is not a viable way, and it is clear that people must be given the opportunity for genuine legitimate protection. And what Mr Répássy is saying is not true because it is based on a misinterpretation, we have also held this debate in committee, because what you are talking about, honourable Member, is in line with the time, location, number of perpetrators and the means used to commit them. What you're talking about, when an illegal intrusion is to be interpreted as an attack on life, is true between 10:00 and 6:00 a.m., it's true if at least three people attack the victim, it's true if they're armed or going into his house. Now, what happens if the wrongful attack on Hungarian citizens occurs at another location, at another time, with another number of perpetrators, under other circumstances? There are very few cases where we say: [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that the American example is to be followed; in this case, we say that the American example would indeed be the one to be followed. All damage [[The president's ringing again.]] The criminal should bear danger and risk - so that the Hungarian citizen who defends himself does not have to be arrested in advance and is afraid of a multi-annual prison sentence! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we have had an over an hour-long debate about this at the Parliament's Justice Committee meeting, which cannot be repeated in two minutes, nor can the arguments be repeated. We will not be able to support this proposal, partly because Mr Apáti is otherwise factually wrong when he says that at other times a legitimate defence situation cannot happen. Mr President, whenever an illegal attack threatens a person, there is a legitimate defence situation regardless of the time of day, life and everything else, and the possibility of averting behaviour is given. If we look at this proposal from a professional point of view, we also face problems, because, as Mr Staudt rightly said, this is neither an illegal attack nor a situation immediately preceding it, nor a legitimate protection that is not preventive. [[14.40]] What then, fellow Members? ! The problem with this is precisely that it cannot be included in the scope of legitimate protection or in the scope of preventive legitimate protection, and in this case it is nothing but unlawful revenge. In order to avenge the burglar or his injury without being punished, there is no social interest. There is a social interest in preventing such acts more effectively by the police; there is a social interest in providing citizens with the necessary means to counterattack; there is a social interest in helping to improve public security in other ways, but certainly not in making revenge legal. We agreed, and we agree now, that it is essentially the wrongful attacker that must bear the risk, which is why, for example, proportionality has come out of the planned new criminal code, and all parties have agreed. I believe that, according to the current legislation, effective counterattacking is indeed possible. This new Vengeance Act is certainly not going to help. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Gábor Staudt if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-12-14-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I appreciate my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, but the problem is that he does not seem to have read the proposal properly, nor did he listen to what I said, because it is not intentional behaviour, not when someone is deliberately trying to cause death, nor is it the preventive protection instrument. It's not that, it's that the wrongful assailant uses the device that I leave out in my own front desk, if I may say so. And yes... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is not a crime.]] Yes, theoretically, it would not be criminal, and I would say that to my fellow Member, Barándy, and yet there is no such thing, and yet there is, they say. If, on the other hand, the courts or the prosecutor's office or anyone else is in a position to apply the law incorrectly and this is a series of cases, then the legislator needs to clarify what his purpose is. And, by the way, my fellow Member Barondy was in the right direction that this would be a new category. Maybe we'll have to put this somewhere else in the Btk. So I'm in the business of not getting into this phase, but the fact that we need a similar rule, that's what we're seeing. And it's not about revenge, it's about actively -- if someone goes in and does things, so it's not about a bear trap, which, if he reaches there, he's gonna cut off his hand or cause grievances, but he's gonna have to deal with the consequences of his math, break-in, and wrongful behavior. In theory, if we agree with this direction, we can create such a regulation, we can submit amendments, we can solve them, and I promise that we will also take the direction and aim as a guide. But if there is no agreement between us from the outset that the problem is given, then the current legislation is not concrete enough to apply it properly to the courts, and we must do something as legislators, then I must say that you are facing people and what people are experiencing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-50	Thank you, Congressman. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the immediate solution to the problems of the domestic waste management system H/6522. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee for Sustainable Development. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Here comes Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-12-14-51	Thank you very much. I asked that we try to include this proposal for a resolution before Parliament, because most of my fellow Members know that the domestic waste management system is in a tragic situation today. There have been a number of amendments to this system over the past period, and we will be voting in the course of tomorrow, and we will be debating in detail this evening the next amendment proposal, which will put this area in an even more tragic position. [[Noise.]] Our proposal for a decision has been submitted in order to allow Parliament to negotiate at all on the merits how this system should be changed so that professionally and economically sound regulation can be implemented in the domestic waste management system, resulting in a lasting, sustainable, value-based regulatory environment that respects the results of recent years and enables peaceful working conditions. This was our goal by submitting a proposal for a decision. We have heard from several Deputy State Secretarys in recent years that there is no problem with the domestic waste management system, because it is working well and stable. Only somehow, those who are affected by this issue do not feel this, neither the municipalities nor the waste management companies, nor the general public feel that the waste management system is working well at the moment. This is also a system in which you have involved disaster protection, and as we see both in chimney sweeps and water utility services, you will involve disaster protection as a service provider, as an organisation that will designate a new provider when you know that you cannot solve the problem of the system. [[It's constant noise.]] What we can see, and what we have repeatedly said to you about the waste management system - and if you can now find open ears with one or two Members, but as I see it, no one in the Fidesz-KDNP is really listening, so it is difficult to find open ears, but hope dies last, which is why you try to hear it - we need to create a system that works, my fellow Members. And perhaps the profession, waste-farming non-profit companies, some of which are municipal owned, some of which are 100% municipal owned, should also be heard from their professional proposals, so that we can create a system that is acceptable, sustainable and well-functioning to the population, the municipality and the service company. We know that this waste management system has a deficit of HUF 13 billion a year. At the moment, the fulfilment of EU obligations in the selective collection of waste cannot be achieved and is loss-making, although this could otherwise be a profitable part of this system. On an annual basis, these companies lose a value of HUF 40 billion, because they cannot maintain their assets, they cannot finance things that would otherwise make this system sustainable. It is also important to see that only HUF 3.5 billion of the product fee and deposit fee of HUF 70 billion is returned to waste management services. And what is truly outrageous, and what you could only face this morning, and only this morning, is that if you have dug your way into the MTI news and the Hungarian Gazette: as I said, we will now vote on the last amendment, and the NFM has already taken over and transferred HUF 3.3 billion to set up a national waste management coordination and asset management company. However, we will vote on this amendment tomorrow, as I said. Ladies and gentlemen, You don't take democracy that seriously, so that you can put the money ahead that you can make what we vote on tomorrow? ! Is it really that they don't even pay attention to appearances anymore, so that people feel that there's still democracy in this country? Yeah, it's the end of the year and it's probably already time to start spending money so that you can create a holding company in which the holding company will collect the money and decide which municipality or which local government-owned company to return. Then the good authorities will get the money and become a sustainable system for them, and the poor municipalities will not get the money? 'Cause that's what we're used to from you. I ask you very nicely to accept this proposal for a resolution in such a way that we can at least argue about it; at least make it look like you're dealing with things that don't affect your own pockets. Thank you.
u2015-12-14-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of Members can present his position in a two-minute time frame, something that the first independent Member to speak can also present in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-53	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to respond partially to the suggestion of my fellow Member, which called waste management tragic. I also think that the use of words is wrong: tragic. If, say, an ambulance doesn't get to the hospital with someone, that's a tragic thing. [[14.50]] But the fact that we can observe serious progress in waste management over the last few years is not only tragic, but I think that we cannot see it as a problem. In recent years, significant progress has been made in selective collection and, most importantly, what we should not forget is that people's costs have been reduced, as waste collection charges have fallen compared to 1 April 2012. For people, this is the most important thing to pay for the service now than in the years when the MSZP governed. Of course, we do not claim that there are no problems, because there are problems everywhere, waste management is constantly changing throughout Europe. These problems must be addressed. Waste management should be such that as little waste is generated as possible; and selective collection should be such that it can be recycled as much as possible. In the process of experience, legislation is constantly changing, as it is in all countries of Europe. I think this can be handled in the normal legislative process by presenting the government. And the problems with waste management, because of the financing problems of course in companies, I think that over time, it must be resolved in the course of operation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-14-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as it is a good practice, supports initiatives in the course of inclusion in the series of subjects that really raise problems that are real problems in the country, whether we agree with the proposals contained therein or not. After all, the debate on the subject is precisely about how we will be able to discuss it here in plenary, in the context of a general debate. So I have already told you that, although we do not fully agree with what you have submitted at all points, but we consider the direction, the initiative itself to be useful in such a way that we also see that the domestic waste management system, which this government has created, is in a rather critical situation. These partnerships have often drifted to the limit of their functionality, and real solutions are needed. By real solutions, we do not mean that, in order to coordinate these associations, a national coordinating body should be set up, which will actually manage assets, and, of course, also include the possibility of in-house corruption, but we mean that the Hungarian waste management system should indeed be improved by measures that will make the processing of household waste more profitable, more economical; and that will help Hungarian families to get rid of waste for a really and long-term lower waste delivery fee. And it is possible to avoid sights that are also characteristic of all settlements today that illegal landfills are being created at the border of settlements, since high waste disposal and landfill charges cannot be paid by many. So the problem is definitely worth talking about, so the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the inclusion of the subject series. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-14-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The May Other has looked at the proposal, interpreted it, and concluded that the proposal is suitable to open a debate on it; it is appropriate to consider the problems raised by the rapporteur. Therefore, we can support inclusion in the series of objects. I would like to respond very briefly to the thoughts of the Fidesz lead speaker, since he has fully included and acknowledged that there are problems in the assessment of the situation. He acknowledged that the legislator had responsibilities to resolve the problems and then did not support the possibility of talking about these problems and finding solutions to them through inclusion in the series of subjects. Obviously, if you look at the fidesz rhetoric, there is only one thing that can be said about the reduction of the rent, but the cost of the reduction of the rent has to be paid to the public service providers, and the provision of services under impossible conditions is very, very challenging and difficult. In order for the government to face this sooner or later, this is a fact, but there is now sufficient experience in order to do this perception here in Parliament and to seek solutions together in the direction of better, more sustainable and wiser waste management; whereas it could be achieved to achieve a reduction in waste generation; whereas it could be achieved to achieve recycling in the material or to force recycling at all times; and since it could be achieved that utility operators can provide public services in all the municipalities of Hungary without compromising environmental safety, there should not involve disaster protection and other external resources to carry out this task. In order to achieve this, the proposal is suitable for the Parliament to discuss these tasks in plenary. Accordingly, consideration is also proposed for the government side to be included in the series of items. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-14-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mrs Anita Heringes if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-12-14-59	Thank you very much. The Fidesz-KDNP government's final amendment proposal will not enter into force until 1 April, it is true that until then, as I said, the money has already been transferred to be able to create the holding company. The holding company that we have not yet voted on to be created, but the money has, of course, been transferred to make preparations before the end of the year. It is, however you look at it, a mockery of democracy. Perhaps I can convince my fellow Member Manninger that, by the way, we should include our proposal for a resolution to improve the system of waste management. The NFM itself has issued the following communication today:. The national waste management public service system is not suitable to meet the EU's obligations in the form currently in place. It is not an incentive to exploit the economic potential of exploitation, and it is therefore appropriate to adapt it. We can agree, as I have said, that what we are wasting is 40 billion forints per year from recycling. At present, the system is not motivated to recycle because it has been bled out so much that it cannot become motivated, no matter how much professionals work in these companies who, by the way, know how important this would be. Therefore, I ask you very nicely, after you enter into force only on 1 April, and you know that this is not a functioning, unmotivating, not a good system, you see only that money in it, please see the profession in it as well. Ask the profession about it. Let us also argue about it here in Parliament, but let them finally sit down with the profession so that a sustainable, well-functioning system can be established. I would kindly ask that my decision be supported by the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you.
u2015-12-14-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/7668 on urgent measures to eliminate the shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Defence and Police Committee. Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Tamás Belling stands up.]] First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the rapporteur of the agenda, a five-minute timeframe... [[Defiance.]] Excuse me. According to my script, Congresswoman Márta Demeter is number one. So now, after there are two authors, on the basis of an indication, Mr Tamás Harangozó is the other rapporteur, you have the floor, within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-12-14-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm trying, I'm trying, but I don't stand a chance. My fellow Member, Mr Demeter, and I submitted our proposal for a resolution after it became clear that the Hungarian Defence Forces simply cannot provide a greater number of forces for a longer period of time without endangering the performance of their basic tasks. The government can only ensure the increased presence of the Hungarian Defence Forces at the southern border by means of continuous, drastic overtime on the current stock. It is clear evidence that the government has passed a bill with the Parliament in recent weeks that has suspended its rules on duty, duty periods, rest periods, over-service, watch, watch and watch and standby in the current situation. Instead of these suspended legal provisions, the superior responsible for organising the service may lay down the applicable rules. The seriousness of the shortage of numbers is well demonstrated by the fact that even in the event of a war, or a state of emergency, such override of laws is not permitted by the two-thirds defence law, but only by your rules which have now been established. While the tasks are increasing, the military is experiencing a shocking shortage of numbers, and the situation is worse every year. According to the closing laws, in 2009 the number of contract soldiers was 5950, which by 2014 was reduced by 5042 people, i.e. almost 1,000 people, thanks to their five-year government. [[15.00]] General Tibor Benkő, Chief of Honvéd Chief of Staff, reported in November that a total of 5,500 soldiers are missing from the 29 700 regular numbers of the Hungarian Defence Forces today. Despite the shocking shortage of staff, the government is trying to deal with the situation by unconstitutional regulation instead of increasing the number of staff. Of course, they refer to the need for exceptional measures only because of temporary difficulties. While the Hungarian Defence Forces have been losing their numbers year after year, in recent years there have been extremely negative changes in the security environment of Hungary and the whole of the Union. In view of the changed circumstances, the huge shortage of Hungarian defences now poses a significant security risk to the whole country. It is expected that in the short and long term, the tasks to be performed by the Hungarian Defence Forces will not decrease, but will increase, as the role of the armed forces will clearly be appreciated in the increasingly dangerous world. Even in the short term, it is unthinkable to carry out these increased tasks in addition to the current shortage of staff. Ladies and gentlemen, The large peace-time shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces cannot be remedied over a long period of time with extreme stress. Therefore, our proposal for a resolution would oblige the government to take action to eliminate the shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces. We are proposing not to increase the number of people already adopted, not to create a mass army, but to implement the parliamentary decisions already adopted, to ensure that the number already required and therefore clearly necessary is as soon as possible. This is only step zero, honourable Members. Once this is done, it is possible to consider whether the previously planned structure, the required number of staff, the training and equipment of the stock are at all suitable to meet today's challenges. And how much this matter depends on the Parliament, its Fidesz and KDNP majority, I would like to quote some of the statements of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence on the Defence and Police Committee in connection with the presentation. The government seems to fully agree with the proposal, but it will depend only on the Parliament and the majority of that Fideszes-KDNP. I quote Mr Dankó: I agree with the Member, the shortage of numbers must be eliminated as soon as possible. Of course, we consider such efforts not only to be supported, but also to be our fundamental duty. We very much hope that you, Members of Fidesz and KDNP, will consider it a fundamental duty. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position within a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and the independent Member who so requests may also express his opinion in two minutes. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. Mr Gergely Kulcsár spoke, Mr Jobbik Group.
u2015-12-14-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The subject is undoubtedly very important, points to a real problem and wishes to see the Parliament. Jobbik has also raised its voice many times in matters of defence, including in relation to the shortage of numbers. However, it must also be said that the MSZP is not credible on this issue, because during the Horn, Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments, the Hungarian Defence Forces were systematically dismantled, just as under the Fidesz governments. In addition, Fidesz and MSZP are also on a platform for both Fidesz and MSZP governments being equally serviced servers to the West, especially to the United States in the field of defence, and among the first to offer foreign missions for foreign interests instead of increasing our forces' weapons and technical readiness, or, by attracting military careers, preventing the rapid decline in the number of military soldiers. Therefore, such a proposal from the MSZP, which is bleeding from several wounds, is not credible. To mention just one example: by command, the number of students in the training of officers and junior officers will not increase. Jobbik has always had and still has proposals to solve the problem. We believe that the SoldierSchool programme needs to be broadened, that it is mandatory to introduce defence skills in high school and high school, so that we can sow the seed at a young age, which we can reap later. We have also said the creation of a separate border guard a million times, in our inevitable opinion, and it should be added that the border guard was also abolished during the MSZP government. Voluntary military service is needed; legislation has recently been adopted in neighbouring Slovakia and will be introduced there. All in all, it is necessary for Parliament to discuss this issue, so Jobbik's faction supports the application for a series of articles. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, An independent Member of Szabó Timea applied in writing, but he is not in the room, so I cannot give him the floor. It is now up to the Members who have asked to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2015-12-14-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The work aimed at renewing defence was launched in 2010. I would like to highlight three of these things. New military training will pay particular attention to the fact that only those types of weapons need to be included in the National Training Note, which requires special professional knowledge that we cannot find in civic vocational training, but can be well built on training that can also be found in civil life. This is one way to reduce the shortage of soldiers. The new military career is the other one, which includes an average of 30 per cent immediately with its introduction in July 2015 and, in addition to an annual salary increase of 5 per cent until 2019, a number of new elements are incorporated in addition to those already existing, which together ensure an increase in the prestige of the military career, strengthen its attractiveness and have a positive impact on the sustainability of the defence. At the same time, the impact of this effect is gradually realised not from one moment to the next, but in the near future, as a result of which upload indicators can also improve. The third thing I would like to highlight is the voluntary reserve military service. In 2010, there were 17 volunteers with a significant increase in the number. In view of this, and the fact that both the government and the defence management are doing their best to alleviate the shortage of military personnel and fill in the number of staff, we do not recommend that the resolution proposal be included in the scope. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has made a statement on the part of the other factions, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Harangozó, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reply. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes.]] I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your comments. As far as Jobbik is concerned, the case itself would have been better off if one of their competent politicians had spoken here in Parliament, and we had not heard party political blows. I could tell my fellow Member, Mr Vas, that he could not say a word to those questions, and not by accident, because he had nothing to say about the substance of the proposal. Mr. Iron, 5500 soldiers are missing from the mandatory number of soldiers in peacetime. You didn't answer that, and you didn't say anything. Don't point fingers at me, because in the last five years, you've only managed to take down a thousand more in the contract crew to put it this way, the great hymns and the great Hende Csaba wonder politics. The Secretary of State also spoke as an excuse at the committee meeting - and we have heard it from Jobbik - that it is not possible to send the people to a soldier on command. This is a fact and a fact, certainly not by command; and not by getting 90,000 net for a contract soldier in a crew, even after a 30-percent wage increase, and by the way, they make a law that they can order as much overtime and overtime as they want. If this goes on, not only will there be no recording, my fellow Members, but even mass disarmament may be possible if you do not correct these circumstances. Finally, understand that you are playing with fire, fellow Members. This is not a political issue. During such a period, the Hungarian Defence Office cannot endanger people's lives with such a shortage of numbers. [[15.10]] I'll give you an example. Most of the stock is now guarding the border. Tell me what's gonna happen if another flood comes in the spring. What are they gonna touch, who else are they gonna send? I'm asking you to consider taking action on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendments to the law on the prohibition of publicly funded, socially harmful propaganda T/5326. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, rapporteur for the Group of the LMP. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-12-14-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, For the third time, the May Other Politics attempts to prohibit public-funded, socially harmful propaganda by the National Assembly in Hungarian: government communication. There are at least two reasons for that. One is that, perhaps, Hungarian citizens should not be viewed as stupid in the manner set out in the budget law. Only this year, 3 billion forints, 3 times as much money as in 2009, is available for Fidesz to fool people with government propaganda as a hidden party fund. There is 3 billion forints available on the stupid billboards and the stupid questionnaires. 3 billion forints is what you spend on government communications with taxpayers' money, and even an office was set up under the National Communications Office, and even a ministry was provided for national communication a few months ago. However, although my fellow Member Gyure agrees, I must disappoint him. I'm not sure this department will be up from January 1st. One mistake was made: the 2016 budget was forgotten to be amended. So I have some bad news for you: even if this proposal is not included in a series of articles, Antal Rogán's communications office will not be able to operate from 1 January, because the budget of 16 has not been modified. The proposal of the LMP is as follows: in the Public Finance Act, we must also state that public and otherwise municipal bodies can only spend money on communication in the band where the information is essential for the exercise of the rights of citizens or for the fulfilment of their obligations. In English, if any, say, public health threat occurs or, for example, a government window is opened, or, for example, information about healthy lifestyles is intended to be disseminated by the department, then, of course, government communication is possible. Obviously, the cost of this can not be more than HUF 100-200 million. You spend 3 billion forints, spend 3 billion forints by virtually circumventing the rules on party and campaign funding, because when you advertise in laps on posters that Hungary is performing better, or that Hungarian reforms work, I think this sentence is left with you from the Gyurcsány period by accident in the Talon, you are doing nothing but party propaganda on public money, government money and government cash. I think that this rule should be taken further, because not only is it not right that the mayor of a city, but the Prime Minister's Office itself is using the public money to polish itself; it is not okay to spend money on advertising by companies that are not competing with anyone. I mean, make no mistake, MVM's money is public money. For example, MVM or Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. What he spends is a part of his business, and the money he spends is also, indirectly, taxpayers' money. Obviously, it's because of the MVM Zrt. makes a better or less good advertising campaign, no one will ask anyone else for electricity, because when you press the switch, you can purchase electricity indirectly from MVM or one of MVM's companies. At the same time, the experience of the last two decades is that advertising spending on public-owned companies, just like government propaganda, gives a broad space to political corruption. I mean, let me be perfectly clear: this marketing budget is separate from the state, local government, or even the Prime Minister's Office, so that, through advertising spending, buddies can win out money. In Hungarian: when we demand the prohibition of socially harmful propaganda in the Public Finance Act for the third time, on the one hand, we want to stop the unscrupulous overtures, on the other hand, and on the other hand, we want to prevent those who are in power by circumventing the existing rules on party or campaign financing, in practice, in the local or national way, from distorting the public. This must end, it must end, even if this is not practically, of course, in 2010, but in the period after 2010, the marketing budget for such unspoken stretches has been increased tenfold. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now speak to him in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor.
u2015-12-14-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We fully support the proposal. An old problem and the problem associated with the governments at all times is that they use money that in many cases should not be spent, or if it is already spent, it should be spent with an information function that people really feel that they are getting an important extra information. But the fact that the government party or the government parties are actually being glorified and capitalized on their media campaign is totally unacceptable, not only because it provides an extra presence and money could be spent in other ways, but it is also excellent for supporting friendly media. I could also say that it can support, sustain, or even disable certain media issuers, printed media, or even broadcast media. The truth is that this must end, the media must be made more independent, and taxpayers' money could be spent better. Not to mention that if something really had to be sent to people, a piece of information, then public media could be a good breeding ground for this. Nearly 100 billion, if we count everything, we've spent 100 billion on public media, that's a terrible amount. I think, in return, it would be expected that important information would be transmitted. The last time I saw it was before 90, when state monopoly companies - without competition or competing state companies - advertised on radio or television. It made me, as a child, wonder why the hell these companies should advertise themselves. We're seeing the same thing now. Let us conclude the history of the change of regime in this area, and let us spend these money better. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-72	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, two minutes.
u2015-12-14-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Public money laundering disguised as friendly communication should end once and for all in this country. What is going on through the media is practically a completely unscrupulous and obscene withdrawal of taxpayers' money, and a covert party funding, which is the cancer of the entire Hungarian democracy. In practice, we see that public funds are diverted to public relations, media and advertising enterprises committed to political parties. Who knows who else is gonna get the money, who knows what's going on with the taxpayers' money? I am absolutely certain that no one in this country works to bring their tax dollars back to parties in such an unworthy situation and capitalize on oligarchs. Because let's not be shy, let's just say what's going on here. You guys had your own oligarch base in the last cycle, but then you got into a big fight, and now you gotta rip it up. What we see is that we've been fighting for years to stop this, but you seem to be hearing a deaf ear. Of course, who knows how you guys could finance your party machine if these money taps were finally shut down. We sued in the new cycle, and the lawsuit clearly revealed that the Intermedia Group or the other giant, Bell and Partners, who were then the best-paying players in their oligarch's interest, won the best-paying tenders. [[15.20]] By the way, the same IMG was, for example, the Prime Minister's Office and the favourite of the Hungarian National Bank. Only the MNB spent 5.7 billion a year in this company. But it's all over now, and they've done a good job of redecorating the media agency market. But I have to say, from a taxpayer's point of view, it doesn't really matter who your oligarch is, the point is that there are always these people who practically make sure that the taxpayers' money goes through them, God knows where they're going in this country. What I can tell you is that you can't handle tax dollars like this. If you do not vote for this proposal, you will make it clear that [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You continue to represent the party of the oligarchs.
u2015-12-14-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-12-14-75	Thank you very much. I am sorry that I did not listen to my fellow Member Vas Imre, but then I would like to respond to my fellow opposition Members, in addition to thanking for their support. To my fellow Member Staudt's point of view, I would add that last year we said exactly what we said in the debate on the advertising tax law is that in order to introduce advertising tax effectively for public purposes, the first step is to eliminate government propaganda. As long as the central government and the state companies and municipalities can spend HUF 3 billion on propaganda, what really happens is that the power elite can feed the press hand in hand. Government propaganda, municipal, state-owned propaganda is a tool to appoint the political public. The other thing that my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, said, I would just like to add so much further that we can see who won the state communication tenders between 2010 and 14 and see who won it in 2015. If Simicska interests won these tenders between 2010 and 14 because they were the best, then why did this exchange take place in 2015? Has there been a major change of profession? My fellow Member Varga nods; well, I would have hoped that he might have pushed a button, and then explained it, because I think quite a lot of people in this country are curious about what happened in 2015 that suddenly those who have been invincible, for example, in road construction, communication tenders, have suddenly found strong rivals. It's very simple: it's about the gang war, and the gang war requires more resources, and one of the most logical sources is government communication. It is about the need for the operation of the Habony works [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and this requires a $3 billion register reserved in the central budget for government propaganda. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the equal pay programme, H/6925. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, member of the LMP Group, who is taking part in the debate as rapporteur within a five-minute timeframe.
u2015-12-14-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, While Europe as a whole is taking measures to reduce the pay gap between women and men, unfortunately the government has swept down our proposals in this regard at the committee meeting with arguments that it is a minimum face toaster. At the Commission's hearing on the proposal, you have given three reasons for refusing to embrace, vote in favour of, and take on a series of subjects. On the one hand, we were told that it contained propagandistic elements and that you considered wage increases in the public sector to be a propaganda element. 2. The steps taken to ensure the transparency of wages have been considered unnecessary because you said that they would increase administration. 3. They did not see the assurance that the proposals could reduce wage differences in practice. Now, what I can add to the third is that this is a proposal for a parliamentary decision, in Hungarian it would be the government that could draw up the related laws, in this way Fidesz' self-confidence is virtually fading when it comes to wage differences, and it must be done in this case, as we generally see very little courage in the government when it comes to wages. For what you guys did at the committee meeting, I'm sorry. On the one hand, the systematic underpayment of professions dominated by women is a fact. This is a fact in this country, and it is largely a result of the depreciation of women's work. On the other hand, equal pay for equal work can only be achieved by making wages and wage principles transparent. I feel very cynical that you make this sound like a bureaucracy-enhancing measure. This is the only way we can move forward to reduce the pay gap between women and men. And the third is that if you know something better than what I put on the table, be kind enough to come forward with it, because on the basis of international recommendations, on the basis of EU examples, I have worked out the package with which I wanted to help the government finally get to work. We clearly see that the position of Hungary's active minister, Mihály Varga, as he said years ago, that the pay gap between women and men is a natural part of the market economy, this is the view of Fidesz and KDNP. Yesterday we learned from László Fat, how Fidesz and KDNP think about equality between women and men. Everything about women and men is presented as basically gender madness, and once again it has been declared that we women can only count on the attention of the government if we have children, to this extent we are subject to government policy. But here you are in a fatal mistake. If you were to implement this programme, do it, then the demographic situation in Hungary would actually improve, because in Hungary, too, in relation to demography, there are a lot of children you want, but they cannot be born, because wages are bad, and women's wages are particularly bad. This package of proposals is about how we can guarantee women better wages. I see it, and I clearly sense that the government is stuck in XX. One century, but you also have to see that the world goes on. The LMP is a XXI. It was formed as a centuries-old party, and we would like the wind of new times to touch the pulverized house of respected Fidesz and KDNP representatives. Because I would like you to open your eyes and finally see that women in many ways are at a disadvantage in the labour market compared to men, and I would also like you to see that very few families can afford women not to work. If women are working, I think they should get the same salary as men for the same job. This is not the case in Hungary at present. The difference between women's and men's gross wages per hour in comparison to EU trends has deteriorated by 3 percentage points in Hungary, and we also see that we work in a smaller proportion, 13 percent less, we earn 18.4 percent less, and our pension is lower by 13 percent than yours, my honourable fellow Members, here in the pro-government benches. The thing is, we've been carrying the price of this for the rest of our lives, the fact that we're women and we're working, and our wages are worse, and we're carrying it with us for the rest of our lives. I see that you do not understand what this is about, but you also need to know that there are three components of this pay gap. On the one hand, there is a real wage difference. We're less valued. On the other hand, there are a lot of women in underpaid professions. And the third is that progress is slower. There's just the glass ceiling. We're moving forward slower than you are. I would like to ask you to stop pursuing a policy that explicitly strengthens the pay gap, you have taken the principle of equal pay for equal work, you have kept the public sector's wages frozen for the seventh year, and women with small children are given poorly paid part-time work, even though flexible work should be ensured. We put this package of measures on the table. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We would like to see it drop by 30 percent by 2018 (The President will announce the time by jogging the bell. ) the pay gap between women and men in this country. I'd like your support, please.
u2015-12-14-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing, first I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Hungarian Socialist Party has already fought in the previous term against the eradication of workers' poverty, so we support any initiative that is, by the way, closely linked to this, in this case as well. I must also add that the category and thinking of equal pay for equal work, not only does it not stand far from us, but we also think the same way in this story, just because it has an impact later on, let us say, in the case of a working pension system. As far as women are concerned, especially in those professional areas, whether we look at health or look at the social sector, they are able to achieve modestly lower income positions than otherwise in other fields of expertise. [[15.30]] In addition, in the last five or six years, which is slowly behind us, they have suffered during the period of your government that they have less money in purchasing power. Of course, the scissors open even further in terms of the incomes that men and women can obtain. It is not random therefore and therefore that the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the kind of initiative, which, by the way, is drawn up into Parliament's walls by means of an action programme, as it offers solutions that bring with it the difference between the incomes of men and women is not reduced while men are frozen, but, where appropriate, through the professional platforms where women work in the majority and earn less, progress in income positions, for example, as I said, in the health and social sector. For this reason, the draft resolution is supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Our Fraction will support the inclusion of the proposal into the subject series, because we can identify with the principle that equal pay for equal work, we can also identify what the LMP considers to be a problem in relation to the pay gap between women and men, and what the public sector workers suffer every day in the huge differences between their wages and the wages of those working in the competition sector, although in many cases they are doing the same work in the public sector, even in my own field, in the social field, in many cases in the same way as their fellows, only because of the unfortunate situation, and as a result in a lower-income workplace. It is possible that certain groups may have criticisms of the proposal, there may be points with which they disagree, but that is why we have always said that, as long as we are in opposition, we want to work as a constructive opposition, because although there are points in this proposal for a resolution that we cannot agree or identify with by 100%, we believe that it needs to be corrected. Or I would also say that we would extend this proposal for a resolution, that if it were to be brought before Parliament, we would extend it with amendments, because unfortunately, there are still a number of areas in Hungary where it does not work or the principle of equal pay for equal work does not apply. Well, I'm not gonna start putting it on the list, because the two-minute window isn't enough. That is why I ask the Parliament to bring it here, in front of the House, and to discuss it in a general debate, to add what is still important to it, to take away from it what it thinks is not good, to polish it, to refine it, to take some action, to come up with a strategy, to go some way to eliminate this situation in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-12-14-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Representative Zsuzsanna Szelényi also applied in writing, an independent Member. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-12-14-83	Thank you very much. Once again, we have a proposal before this House on how we think about women and men, women's work, men's work and both their role in society. Yesterday, this weekend, there was a very definite expression on the part of László Fat, and I think that's what we're talking about today. There must be people in Hungary who like the Speaker to say that men should be men, soldiers, build houses, decide, lead the people, and obviously there are people who think that women should stay at home and have children. I represent other Hungarians, I represent those who believe that women are able to have children, raise children and even do meaningful, high-quality work, and I also think that there are men who, in addition to doing quality work, teaching and building, are able to raise children, and they want to benefit from the activities we call child rearing, and they do not think that this is why women should be afraid of women, and they do not think that women want to dominate their lives. I think the issue of equal pay belongs to this category of thought. My grandparents graduated from the Faculty of Medicine together in 1930, and they started teaching together in Orosháza, a freshly founded high school, and my grandmother didn't get paid for the work my grandfather got for. Then they had ten children, not my grandmother gave birth to my grandfather, but together and to their own happiness. They spent their whole lives studying, teaching, and raising their children together. I think this is the model that stands before me, I represent people in this country. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] For whom this is the norm, who think together about work and raising children, and which is why I am in favour of this proposal, and I hope that Parliament will put it on the agenda.
u2015-12-14-84	Thank you, Congresswoman.
u2015-12-14-85	Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2015-12-14-86	Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2015-12-14-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2010, the European Commission adopted a five-year strategy for equality between women and men. The strategy aims, inter alia, to reduce the gender pay gap and to enforce the principle of equal pay for equal work. Last year, the Commission also made concrete recommendations to help Member States achieve their targets. Member States should report on their gender pay gap by 31 December 2015. We are curious to know what steps the Hungarian Government will be able to take over the last five years, whether it will write in the report whether the pay gap has increased by 3 percentage points under their governance against EU trends, and whether it will tell us that nothing has been done in recent years to make this change, and that all proposals have been swept off the table on the grounds that they will only increase administration unnecessarily. Increasing the transparency of salaries is an important step towards eliminating the pay gap, as it can reveal unequal treatment and discrimination between the sexes. In order to make wages transparent, our proposal would provide for a regular reporting obligation for companies, the introduction of a wage audit in large companies, and the introduction of an in-house wage practice for employees. We would strengthen the role of the Equal Treatment Authority in combating the gender pay gap. The proposal for a decision also includes comprehensive measures to address other causes of wage differences, such as wage-setting for underpaid, women-represented professions or promoting flexible work. Please support our proposals. Thank you.
u2015-12-14-88	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-12-14-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The pay gap between women and men is both unfair and unjustified, and thirdly outrageous, especially in terms of the attitude of the government. I have not seen you do anything in recent years to reduce this - obviously that's why you have grown, because you don't move your ears. However, I would like to draw your attention to one thing: in 2015, 2 November was the day from which women worked for free, and men continued to receive money if we look at this in principle, because it is so bad with regard to the pay of women and men that last year European women worked for virtually 59 days for free. So here we can see that there is a problem elsewhere, but elsewhere governments have a slightly more positive attitude than yours. I am very sorry that none of the Members sitting in the opposite groups could speak and make some arguments about their views on this initiative. You know, you don't have to send messages to Hungarian women from the Fidesz Congress, the Hungarian Parliament is here, you have to press a button, stand up and tell them what they think. It's an absolutely life-like proposal. I'm sorry about that, too. that we are not voting now, because if we were to vote now, then with the support of the opposition, this proposal would practically go through. I would also like to thank the opposition factions and the independent woman for her support. There is one thing I would like to say to you: the situation in Hungary is practically so bad that even in the public sector, there is an 8 percent wage gap between women and men, although there is supposedly a very strike category, a percentage, there could not be any difference, but we also see that this whole situation is happening, and that women are also worse off than men. You do not understand a lot of things, so let me say in your language that if you would support this proposal, you could even alleviate the demographic problem, because the fact is that we are still fighting for the second child in Hungary, and that is because many families cannot afford to take on the child they want because women and men do not make good money. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[15.40]] But again, the pay gap between women and men is a subject that you cannot say you do not want to deal with.
u2015-12-14-90	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our adopted agenda, the Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of Law I of 2004 on Sport in relation to the safety of sporting events and the summary amendment proposal will not be discussed at this meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, and the final proposal for an amendment, will follow in the light of Croatia's accession to the European Union. The government referral is T/776. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that on 10 December 2015 the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, in the light of Croatia's accession to the European Union. The Commission submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour, i.e. a unanimous decision. The summarised amendment contains a single point amendment proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The amending proposal aims to clarify the title of the bill, i.e. to take account of the accession of Croatia to the European Union when adopted, to the new title on the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part. In addition, the Additional Protocol for Hungary is provisionally applicable from 1 July 2013 pursuant to the Council's decision of the Council of the European Union as Croatia acceded to the European Union on 1 July 2013. In view of the fact that the Parliament has already discussed the substance of the bill, I would like only to ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Ájgyártó State Secretary if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah?
u2015-12-14-93	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. The Government accepts the amendment and we do not wish to comment in more detail.
u2015-12-14-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the end of the debate, Mr Secretary of State will have a time frame of nine minutes if he wishes to make use of this opportunity. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, rapporteur of the designated committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, within a six-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-95	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, T/776 was discussed. and its proposed amendment by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We also held a detailed debate at the committee meeting and stated that this international treaty itself and the amendment to the protocol of the international treaty are linked to the consistent Hungarian position that Hungary has always supported Croatian accession, and subsequently we consider it natural that, following the accession of Croatia, all international treaties concluded between the European Union and its Member States and other countries, where appropriate, with the Republic of Korea on free trade... - we consider it natural to support Croatia's accession to this Protocol as a Contracting Party, and this additional protocol essentially means this. At the committee's meeting, he discussed the bill, the amendment, and unanimously supported it. It is natural to ask my fellow Members, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no fellow Member has indicated in writing his intention to speak from any of the factions, I would like to ask if anyone would like to take this opportunity from the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react.
u2015-12-14-97	Thanking the committees for their work, I ask that the Parliament support the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-14-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related legislation and on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6983. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame. Here you go, fellow Member.
u2015-12-14-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the Rules of the House on 10 December 2015 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, the 2015 CXLIII on Public Procurement Act T/6983 amending Act T/6983 and related laws The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 17 yes and 11 sexes. The summarised amendment contains the provisions of the Economic Committee on technical clarification and the legislative committee's own proposals. The Legislative Committee's own proposal further clarifies the draft law on the basis of the same reasons as point 5 of the Opinion of the Economic Committee. § (1). On the basis of the proposal, on the one hand, the provisions on aid from EU and domestic sources are placed at the same point, because of their consistency. Furthermore, the proposal better serves the mitigating objective and the creation of a level playing field set by the Committee by not requiring Kbt for aid already granted before 1 November. 5. The application of paragraph 3 of Section 3. The amending proposal also provides for the possibility of setting up a pre-registration system for responsible accredited public procurement consultants, which will also increase transparency in relation to the other elements of the proposal. I therefore respectfully ask that you support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2015-12-14-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two speakers presented the minority opinion formulated in the committee in a total time frame of seven minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, a minority speaker of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A minority opinion was also formulated in the Legislative Committee, and virtually all opposition parties and opposition representatives took the view that they did not support the legislative proposal of the Public Procurement Act before us. And why is that? The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has stated here many times, and has said that we regard corruption as one of today's people's cancers, and that corruption must be combated in all its forms. Unfortunately, in the last five and a half years, we have seen in Hungary in the Parliament and in the legislation that the current governing parties, Fidesz-KDNP, constantly push the legislation in the direction that practically legitimizes certain elements of corruption, to the level of law, and thus effectively removes it from the criminalized facts of the crime. Unfortunately, the Public Procurement Act also provides an opportunity for billions, hundreds of billions of people to go through public procurement, and we also need to be very careful not to widen it, but to narrow it down to a circle that can be removed from public procurement, which does not get such attention. In this case, my fellow Member Apáti, Mr Jobbikos, tabled an amendment, which was an essential element, which he will also say will reduce the possibility of excluding public procurement in the case of state or European Union funding over HUF 25 million - so that the procurement procedure should be avoided in as few cases as possible. If we ignore public procurement, it could obviously be a hotbed of corruption. This amendment provided only one opportunity to avoid public procurement in the case of subsidies above HUF 25 million, but this concerns the support of small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises from the rural development programme, and only in one case if the aid exceeds 50 per cent. So the question of own strength is very important here, how much self-strengthening the entrepreneur has put into it, and if the state aid or EU aid exceeds 50 percent, then this procurement procedure must be carried out. And in this case, we have thought about that... so obviously this does not apply to the oligarchs, but only to small and medium-sized enterprises. This has not been supported, so we, not only for this, but we do not support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, another minority speaker of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! In the Legislative Committee, minority opinions have indeed agreed that opposition parties do not support this bill. On the part of the Socialist Party, it was stated that it was not because we had problems with the way we were legislating on the one hand and the content of the proposed legislation on the other. We have also said that once again we have been able to create a law and in a way that the last law on public procurement has not yet entered into force, but the amendments have already been submitted to it. It does not seem to be a prudent, forward-looking legislation in this regard. Our other problem of this type was that those who deal with this area know and realise that the single European procurement document is expected in the near future, unless it has already been published in the meantime, and this document certainly contains elements that Hungarian legislation should also take into account. It seemed appropriate to wait for this document. Well, there's no such thing as that. So you don't have to be too much of a psychic to suggest that in the coming period, the law should be again applied in the form of an amendment. After all, European decisions of this type will have to be incorporated into the Hungarian legal order. The Socialist Party has also said that the amendment itself is against the legislative law, since the so-called implementing regulation, which would allow the law to be implemented or applied, should have been published in conjunction with the amendment. Once again, we did not see an example of this, there was a similar error in the previous law. This can cause some problems with coherence in the application. It would have seemed more appropriate not to rush so quickly, and to prepare this in a proper way. With regard to the content of the amendment to the legislation, it is clear that there are further proposals for softening up in a salad law concerning the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. Although we feel in the media that they are trying to put it as Europe's toughest public procurement law, we are at the same time noticing the opposite. For all opposition parties, we perceive that this amendment proposes to further soften the existing law. We consider, among other things, that part of the investment can be excluded from the scope of the Public Procurement Act. I am thinking, for example, of priority investments, but in other cases too. It is also worth paying attention to the possibility for family members of state leaders to enter public procurement, which we feel has caused a public uproar over the past period, as this has been made public. It has also been mentioned that, while it has been said that, before 1 November, those who have been promised the aid do not have to participate in public procurement or not have to sign up for public procurement, it has now been stated that it is enough that someone just requested it. These were the reasons why the Socialist Party and opposition parties could not accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-12-14-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I will now ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. However, before I give the floor, I would like to inform you that, together with the speech in the debate and the possible closing point, ten minutes are available, so as much as you use the ten minutes, you will have less time to close. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-14-105	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have followed the course of this debate from the opening debate to this day, and it is interesting to see that sometimes arguments in such a forum do not affect what the parties have to say in the next forum. After all, the debate about the amendment of the public procurement law, its preliminary debates, whether the five-party negotiations or what was said on the Legislative Committee, could have convinced you that the criticisms you have just formulated cannot hold their place. First, I would like to answer to Mr Jobbik and Mr Csaba Gyüre, who said that the Jobbik faction cannot support this amendment, because it softens the possibility of how many cases of public procurement should be used and where applicants are exempted from the application of public procurement, those who use EU or domestic funding. If that is the real argument that Jobbik is not in favour of this amendment, then you should support it, because we have just introduced the rule that it must be applied at HUF 25 million, and that is exactly what you were proposing that it should not be used. So, in terms of tightening up, the government has taken action, and you are asking us to lift this regulation. Two aspects have to be taken into account, either in the Legislative Committee or in the five-party conciliation. The new Public Procurement Act offers much wider opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary to participate in public investment, with two guarantees, one being able to enter the public procurement market with much lower reference requirements, and the other being able to enter the public procurement market with much lower capital ratios. As a result, however, the European Union is facing much more controls by Hungary, and on the other hand, it is in the financial support system where these small companies and small family businesses could not obtain aid before, and we have opened the possibility that immediately after the signing of the grant agreement they will be able to receive a 50% call advance. [[16.00]] So on one side, the government provides effective financial assistance to these businesses and on the other hand, it meets the demand in Brussels to deliver these funds to Hungarian family businesses in the most transparent way possible. The two aspects must be enforced at the same time. At the request of Mr Abbot, we have specifically looked at what this means in the case of family businesses, in the case of agricultural enterprises. We are meeting with a low number where it is not worth amending this system, because there is more audit risk than the lifting of this amendment would bring about the lifting of this tightening up, so I ask that if Jobbik takes steps towards tightening up or if it takes action with the government, support this amendment to this end. The other issue, which the Member mentioned, concerns the negotiations. I have been practicing in this task for a relatively short time, but I have not seen a law, and I am not sure that this is a problem that should not have been changed. The new EU directive on public procurement already contains all the elements for Hungary in the documents we publish that the EU directive will contain, this is the procedure that the European Commission has audited, adopted and authorised. In the entire debate, which took place for about a year, the representatives of the European Commission also had the opportunity to intervene in this debate, and they received all the assurances that the Hungarian law complies with these regulations in relation to the entire framework contract for public procurement. The fact that there would not have been enough time for the amendment to be tabled either by the MSZP or by other parties, we cannot accept this because such proposals have been received from countless parties. Indeed, your party was the only one who did not participate in the five-party debate. I think that, in addition to political passwords, this is also being considered when deciding whether or not to support this amendment. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You'll have a six-minute window. Thank you very much. I would like to inform this House that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is therefore up to the Members to speak in the time frame on the agenda, which is clearly visible to everyone on the billboards, and I would also like to inform you that two-minute speeches are not possible. I would like to start by speaking to Mr Nándor Gúr, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, notary.
u2015-12-14-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to approach it in two directions, Mr Secretary of State, in line with what has been said, one is formal and the other is substantive. From the Forma side, I'm sure you remember that on 1 November a new public procurement law came into force, and it was 5 November when the addition already took place. Therefore, the viability of those adopted earlier was not for too long, or, if you remember, there was not only a change, but before that there was a public procurement amendment under Law No 4849, or a legal acceptance. But perhaps the formal part, and the fact that it's not too much to discuss in society, I can show it on one hand, but it's also on one finger how many days they've given me: one day. Well, these are the periods that make it sound so that it can be addressed and helped by appropriate amendments. The contents of the story are obviously more important. Obviously, it is not good for public procurement processes to be shaped in such a way that it effectively weakens everything that should be strengthened if it allows space and legalizes, if not otherwise, corruption. I find it a very big problem that, in the case of the 25 million HUF threshold mentioned by you, for which EU or state aid funds are issued for automatic public procurement, I do not consider this a problem, but I do think that it is a good problem, but I do think that it is a good thing that it starts after that that, in which cases exemptions are granted: if individual government decisions are made, if there are types of processes that are combined with job creation, aid in any other respect, I just don't want to draft the story. I think that, overall, they are not good, they are not correct, or they are not correct, but they are not good and they are not forwarders. It is not good to distort competition in the market, and it is not good to make the possibility of spending public money virtually without limits, I can say in quotes. I think that, in terms of recent years - and it is now almost 6 years that we can talk about in your case - we can see what the public procurements were about. They said that, in half the public procurements, virtually one candidate took the funds, and it was not random, it was obvious that a multitude of tailor-made calls had taken place, and these individual applicants, even single-person applicants, had generally had a similar connection to the current political - quote again - power, although in your case it may not even be necessary to put it in quotes. So what I want to say is that the problem is very big, if politics and economic lines are seen to be drifting into a course in a virtually articulate way, and, in practice, the legal backgrounds are also in a form that facilitates the development of this. There is still a big problem - and I do not want to go out of the framework of this draft law with just one sentence - if, in the case of family members, with virtually retroactive effect, these retroactive measures are loved by you, taking measures that practically redefine this course. So, I think, overall, that the direction they draw in this respect is not good, and it is especially wrong that when something is not drawn correctly, they do it like in kindergarten, that they give the child a new paper or they overwrite the old paper. I don't think this is the way you should go. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-108	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Let us start by saying a lot about the public procurement law adopted a few weeks ago, even though this amendment was tabled before its entry into force. We also indicated our original concerns about the large bill; a small, less significant part of them were taken to heart and incorporated into the bill and in the adopted text, but our really important, substantive, large-scale amendments were swept off as usual. This may say a lot about the way in which the proposal was drawn up, the discussions that had been held, that it had to be amended so early and early. As far as this proposal is concerned in a closer sense, it is necessary to clarify some of the essential points. One is that, in itself, we do not consider it devilish to lay down certain exception rules in a particular law - in this case, the law on public procurement - although it is remembered that 7 exceptions, 7 exception rules are considered a little excessive, excessive and strong, but, where appropriate, interests may arise in order to use EU funds in order to ensure that resources can be used in order to make certain facilitations. However, it is not certain that, let us say, investments for large industrialisation are included; it is not certain that there is no end to the exceptions to certain State aids, without a ceiling, even in the order of tens of billions, and we had a serious debate during the general debate, and at that time it indicated that a common intersection could be found here with regard to the rule on small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture, a common denominator can be reached, which also corresponds to Brussels, serves an important aspect of reducing corruption, and it is also in the interests of farmers. This is about - that they may be less familiar with public procurement - that, where possible, aid where the aid does not exceed 50 per cent - i.e. either 50 per cent or less - and does not exceed a certain limit, should not be required to carry out a procurement procedure. Unfortunately, both in the context of the general debate and in the case of our already amended amendment to the TAB, both in the case of our modified amendment and in the case of the five-partisan conciliation, these arguments have come to an end. You have really listened to these in a very cultural and sporting manner, there has indeed been a substantive debate, not a mock-up debate, but a real debate, but you have insisted on an external or internal suggestion, however, that it is a good thing that the public procurement procedure should be mandatory for the rural development programme to receive a grant of more than HUF 25 million. [[16.10]] Then I said and I repeat what serious problems this will cause in the agricultural segment. It will cause serious problems because even according to your collection, as I understand it, thousands of procedures will be based on the period 2007-13, which, in the case of this rule, will be a public procurement obligation, a procedural obligation. The Hungarian farmers - whether they are self-employed or are engaged in social enterprise - are not prepared, there are no personal conditions, there are no material conditions, and these procedures will be terribly complicated. In many cases, the public procurement contractor is literally trying to complicate the procedure, making it more complicated and confusing instead of facilitating the duties of his principal in the original and noble sense of the word. On the other hand, we believe that if, in the case of certain exceptions, it applies to the cases that we are debating and not debating, it is possible to establish an exception rule of up to tens of billions in value, then we are sure that the fight against corruption will not bleed out if small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture are given reliefs within appropriate limits. In particular, it was proposed to set the amount, a specific sum and that the aid intensity should not exceed 50 per cent. This is important because there will be rural development programmes where aid intensities of 60 or 70 per cent are likely, whether for collective investment or for other applications. At the time, we said that the worst - this was, if you like, our strongest suggestion - was that the hundred million HUF subsidy amount and the 50 percent rate should be the ceiling, but otherwise we would have considered the 50 million value acceptable. If the two are implemented together, no public procurement obligation shall be imposed on the investment concerned. This would have served the interests of the farming community. In this way, it could not have been said that the oligarchs were supported, that an oligarch manages a subsidy amount of more than 50 million or 100 million, that it receives much more aid, and that this should, of course, be subject to a public procurement obligation. Thus, on the one hand, the amount, the sum and the intensity of the aid would have provided sufficient guarantees to avoid either political or professional attacks or attacks in Brussels. At the same time, it is also necessary to face the fact that, in the real world, in many cases, an agricultural investment is not carried out by entrusting it to an external contractor, for example, in the case of a plantation plantation, farmers buy the material and work it with manual or mechanical work. So it's simpler, so it's more reasonable, so it makes sense. If an external company is entrusted with this, certain interests in this segment may benefit from the fact that they are created for the purpose of construction, will drag them out in time, and will be much more expensive than farmers carrying out the investment with their own manual or mechanical labour. I could give you a few more examples, but maybe this will shed some light on reality. It is simply not possible to convert to the language of public procurement, translate the amount of the investment in question, the nature of the investment in question. It can be said, in the old way, that it is divided into parts. Ten years ago, we said that by circumventing the ban on breakdown into parts, by applying the rules of consolidation flexibly, there will be room for manoeuvre in this case, because in this case, investments can be broken down into parts along certain rules, and if this does not exceed HUF 25 million, then there will not be a public procurement obligation. The dangerous thing about this, Mr Secretary, is that Brussels or even a supporting authority can hold on to it much more easily, and in many cases it will become a question of interpretation of the law, what belongs to it, what can be counted together, what can be taken separately, what can be divided into parts. There are many more dangers in this, and the practice has shown in the last ten years that there are a lot of public procurement bleeding out, and there are very, very many practical problems. However, you will open the loophole, or, if you like, the main gate, that with the usual Hungarian artifact, the individual beneficiaries, in this case the contracting authorities of the public procurement procedure, will try to ensure that procurement is carried out as rarely as possible. And if you consider the argument in which it is true that the over-prices, such as the purchase of machinery, were a problem, and the controls in Brussels have constantly revealed this, then it would be good to consider the old proposal of Jobbik, because we said in 2010-11 that, in line with the subject matter of the purchase in question, the ordering of services, the supply of goods, the construction, perhaps the construction is the easiest, let us simply call it a comprehensive set of specific cost limits and cost limits, above which no budget can be planned, and then we cut off the head of the dragon. Then it cannot be overpriced, overcosted, and we can also solve it without necessarily getting it in the way, not putting out public procurement for the particular investment. I wish that I was wrong when I said that we might sit here again at the latest a year later, to argue with each other when we have to amend the public procurement law for this reason, because the next year's practice, I am very afraid that it will shed light on it, that it will not work in this form, and that it will have to be eased and relaxed in this regulation. Another argument 13 plus 1 or n plus 1: the aid intensity not exceeding 50 per cent is very important, because it is also about putting half or more of the agricultural farmer's own money into this project, using non-EU funds, his own savings or his credit, which is why it is also appropriate to facilitate their lives, their farming and the development of agriculture in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group, Mr István Józsa, would like to take your turn.
u2015-12-14-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. It is a little strange that, at such short intervals or in such a way as to say that the amendment to the Public Procurement Act will be brought to the House with a great deal of blow. However, in a positive approach, I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that we have had an amendment from the pen of my fellow Member, Dezső, which they could accept. Why, I don't want to go into details right now. It was obvious, but it was positive that an amendment had been accepted. After all, it is also positive that they have an outlook on EU legislation and if they are a little late, but they are trying to incorporate it in this amendment. It may also be positive that the contracting authority may, in the invitation to tender, require the tenderers to provide for public procurement procedures for works and services. [[Csaba Gyure sneezes. Intercoms.]] - Did I tell you the truth? [[Defiance.]] - to inform the competent bodies of the obligations relating to the protection of workers and working conditions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If the neighbouring group is a little slower, I would like to pay attention to the fact that this awareness of OSH aspects would be more appropriate if it were to be included as a prerequisite for public procurement, or when it is already in the implementation phase, because control of OSH conditions and compliance with these obligations has deteriorated significantly over the last five years. It seems a little strange that, in the future, lawyers can also carry out the responsible accredited public procurement advisory activities. I am sure that the training of a lawyer is very diverse, it covers a lot of things, but I would very much like it to be just a transitional provision, because just as doctors have a general doctor and a specialist, it should be at least an objective within a lawyer's profession so that those with professional practice or training in public procurement can carry out accredited activities in this way. The fact that public procurement will not automatically be required is the investment that has received public money on the basis of an individual government decision. Remember, Secretary of State, the Norwegian fund had such serious debates that it was public money or not public money. Investment aid granted on the basis of individual government decisions is clearly public money, so public procurement would be useful in this sense. [[16.20]] On the other hand, as regards the investment environment and smoothness, we do not see a reduction in the administrative burden, so please take further steps in this direction. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-12-14-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is also Mr Dezső, Member of the MSZP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I simply asked for the floor, Mr State Secretary, because in his speech he mentioned that what was said in the Legislative Committee, that is to say, the speakers of the minority opinion have no regard for the debate, saying that if something was answered there, then why is it mentioned here; on the one hand, because they have to interpret the minority opinion that was given there, and, on the other hand, unlike you, I have not mentioned the non-negotiation or the stories related to it. But you mentioned this in a clear way from the point of view of the Secretary of State, and yet I tried to take it into account, despite all that, you mentioned it, but I think we understand each other in this regard. However, it is not that the document I was talking about is an EU document, but it cannot be taken into account because it is not yet. There is no such document, so it could only refer to a previous working group meeting or anything else, which, we know quite well, is not an official document. Thank you very much. My time is up.
u2015-12-14-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak on the basis of the time frame still available. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] You have six minutes of time. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-14-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I feel like the MSZP is starting to look like a fairy tale elephant who's having a hard time studying, but he forgets easily. I say this because the system of individual government decisions has been mentioned by several people, and individual government decisions point to the fact that if a large industrial investment came to Hungary, for example, how the country's competitiveness is determined by what kind of individual government decision can decide on additional resources, tax incentives or other settlement aid. It is unviable that these systems are awarded in the framework of public procurement. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] because you may also know that from a time when you were a government official [[Nándor Gúr: We are not talking about such individual government decisions!]] why decisions were made in the same system. [[Nándor Gúr: That's not what we're talking about, of course you know!]] After all, we are talking about the same individual government decisions as the MSZP has fully applied in certain cases between 2002 and 2010. When the countries of the region compete on what investment is to come to the country, to the city, it is a very serious competitive factor in the aid that a state can grant to a company that is moving in and creating hundreds of jobs. That is what the exemption criterion that you are criticising on this issue is about. The debate on house rules has already been held during the opening debate, and I do not want to repeat that. However, I would certainly like to mention what Jobbik's representative, Mr Abbot, has put on the agenda. Here, let me mention the virtues of the law as an important aspect for the government, as confirmed by economic operators. On the one hand, our aim was to create a public procurement law that opens up a much wider opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Our aim was to ensure that these players were able to play a ball in public investment against the more capitalised international companies that set much more serious reference requirements, because we believe that this is an area where Hungarian economic growth can be very seriously supported. Our aim was also to provide them with financial relief, which has been one of the most serious obstacles to the development of Hungarian businesses since the crisis: lack of capital supply and lack of bank financing. On the other hand, there are, of course, the aspects that the European Commission keeps counting on all Member States, including in Hungary, how we can ensure the transparency of resources. As has been said in the five-party debate, I understand the arguments put forward by the Member, but I ask you to consider that if someone receives a non-refundable grant of HUF 25 million, regardless of the aid intensity, he has the opportunity to purchase that market expertise, or public procurement expertise, in some part of the state aid of HUF 25 million, so he can also buy this service with public money. It may not be at his disposal, but we think that the use of public procurement in this area is a procedure that can stabilise the preservation of the aforementioned benefits. It is not certain that this debate will not be on the agenda in a year's time. That is precisely why we have also looked at the Member's number of such procedures in the previous grant cycle and, if appropriate, this debate can be reopened. Today, with the advantages of the government and the guarantees provided by the government to the European Commission, they create the possibility that Hungary can really use these funds effectively and regularly, preferably by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Overall, I think that a public procurement law will be established in Hungary, which will be the first of the 28 Member States of the European Union to transpose the new public procurement practice; a practice whose EU directives have not yet been published in written form, but the European Commission, believe me, is aware of these expectations, and the Hungarian law will meet this in all respects. As regards conflict of interest rules, I would like to say in any case that this is a public procurement law which lays down any conflict of interest rules at all. It wasn't on the agenda before. It is possible to argue whether this is enough or not, but to ignore the fact that in a completely new regulatory environment we are regulating a circle that does not have access to this type of public money at all, this is indeed forward-looking and unical regulation within the European Union. I think that this can make the Hungarian economy stronger, and, as a result of the use of public procurement, it will open up a career that can bring more and more Hungarian businesses, more and more Hungarian family businesses to public funds, and as a result, a system that can spin economic growth not only through the number of investments, but also through the additional income generated here. To do this, I think that the government can rightly count on the support of Hungarian economic operators to be obtained in the final vote. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-14-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows now that the 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. By our Fidesz colleagues at Balázs Győrffy and István Jakab T/7821. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I now give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 10 December 2015 the 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. Act CXXII of 2013 on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. T/7821. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report summing up 21 yes and 11 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment contains the two-point technical proposals of the Committee on Agriculture closing a detailed debate. The Legislative Committee has developed a longer debate on the amendment proposed by the better political group. The amendment would have meant that points 2 and 3 of the bill would be fundamental. According to the majority opinion, the provisions of the proposed amendment and the provisions of the bill were not fundamental in accordance with Article P (2) of the Fundamental Law, nor were the provisions of the laws to be amended which the present bill intended to amend earlier, so this amendment was not supported by the majority. [[16.30]] That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill in line with the original bill and the summarised amendment proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The minority opinion of the committee will be presented by representatives of Zoltán Gőgös and Gábor Staudt in a total time frame of seven minutes. I give the floor first to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not think that we have the authority to reconvene the general debate, so I would just like to note in the context of the proposed amendments that we continue to believe that this law is wrong and that it is so far beyond the provisions of the Fundamental Law that it will certainly not stand up to this examination. A new addition came from the Constitutional Court a short time ago, which annulled point 2 of the Government Decree governing the sale of land, thereby stating that no law can be overwritten in a government decree. If I am to put it simply, this means that although it has not destroyed the possibility of selling public ploughing areas, it has described the need to buy land as compensation. From this point of view, I do not think that the government is ahead, because then it is a pity to sell. That is why it should be carefully considered whether this should continue, because at the end it must be done in accordance with the rules of use laid down in the NFA Act, which cannot be used for other purposes, but only for the purposes set out in the law, which is quite clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is still not too late to withdraw this law and present a new bill. More precisely, it is easier to support my proposal for taxation, in which I have described how the problem of low rents could be solved rather than helping nappers. This will be in front of the Economic Committee tomorrow, and I hope that you will receive the necessary support. In any case, be prepared to see this bill proceed in the same way as the government decree, at least one point in the government decree for sure. A detailed study of the Constitutional Court's decision came a few minutes ago, but it is certain that point 2 of the Government Decree was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. That is why I believe that the two-thirds of this will be the same. So there's no such thing as trying to pass a law by two-thirds two weeks ago, but it doesn't work, and then we think that we're not going to change land laws, we're going to change civil code, and then we're going to succeed. Anyway, it's all nonsense. As the majority tries to deal with the transfer of contracts, it is rather shameful for itself. I don't think that's gonna work. This should be forgotten, and another solution should be used, along with the need to stop the auctions immediately, as the story is bleeding from a thousand wounds. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The second description of the minority opinion is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, On the one hand, I do not want to repeat the general debate, but at the committee meeting I have to say that there has been a detailed debate on many aspects, but unfortunately we have not received any answers from the representative of the government present, or we have received only answers that concern the proposals that could be considered political or political at the most. Moreover, at the end of the general debate, we did not receive answers to the legal points raised here in this House; I could even say the suggestions made by the better Members. As a result, I would like to divide what has been said before the committee into two parts. There was, on the one hand, the opinion put forward for purely professional reasons, and there were those that could be considered political, but the factual substance of the proposal and the consequences of what would follow if this proposal went through. I, in particular, made the legal arguments at the committee meeting. We still have constitutional problems, and we believe that only two thirds of these areas could be regulated, and the Fundamental Law is absolutely clear on this. We argued and argued with our pro-government fellow Members, who in detail could not deny that if these areas were considered to be two thirds under the Fundamental Law, they would be included in another law. The purpose is the same as in the case of the law that was here before the Parliament and did not receive the two-thirds grant. If the same goals could be achieved by means of a loophole, then, in fact, every two-thirds rule could be avoided. In addition, the law is retroactive, since not only does it have to be resolved how to circumvent the two-thirds regulation, but also how to apply these rules to existing contracts, so that it can be said that it applies to contracts concluded earlier, which did not yet apply to them at the time. By the way, we also said that it was said at the committee meeting that next spring we would even support a similar proposal, which would suggest that the land for which it can be demonstrated that it is issued below the market price at a five-th to six or similar rate, and that in many cases the oligarchs, large entrepreneurs, which are linked to the governments of the time, would be rented, reviewed, and in these cases we could provide two-thirds. What you're doing right now is pissing off the farmers you refer to most of the time. It was also said at the committee meeting - and this has only been confirmed to me since - that the local potentates who have already completed the gold-claw course are taking the land from the farmers who have made money from car sales, oil-blooming or other legal or illegal transactions. Well, they can buy these land at a huge price, whether above the market price, from farmers, and receive excellent loans for it. So it's worth it to them. And by the way, the iron circle of wood that they are trying to force into the Ptk. - that they are trying to expand the definition of the contract transfer in the Ptk. so that the transfer of contracts should not be a transfer of contracts, but a new contract - I considered it absurd at the committee meeting, and I am doing this again before the Parliament, because the point of the transfer of contracts is that the contract will remain, only the contractual positions will be transferred, and the whole of Ptk. its relevant system is empty. Therefore, in support of minority opinions, we could not support this proposal. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Balázs Győrffy if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Balázs Győrffy: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Then you will have a deadline of ten minutes if you wish to close. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[Little Miklós Zsolt: Yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-14-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the general debate and the Commission debate, we also had the opportunity to state the Government's position that we clearly wish to support the amendment by Mr Balázs Győrffy. Among the proposals received for the amendment, the amendment tabled by the Jobbik Group by three Members, which would have challenged the issue of fundamentality, the government considers that this legislative proposal is not affected. On the part of the political group, we will obviously prevent what the Constitutional Court is likely to say sooner or later if someone goes to the Constitutional Court: the Government considers that this amendment is not necessary because of the relevant parts of the two-thirds law. The technical amendments, which Mr Font indicated in an amendment proposal, reflect the government's position, and we agreed with that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2015-12-14-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The position of the designated Agriculture Committee and the minority opinion expressed there will now be presented. First, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, rapporteur of the committee, in a three-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When the Committee on Agriculture discussed the detailed debate, the accusations made in the general debate were almost repeated, so I can safely say on the part of the opposition. This has been rejected every time, and it has now come up in part with the comments that have already been made. However, if you look at it as an outsider, you don't understand what this is all about, because here we have the decision of the Constitutional Court, stopping land auctiones and all the demands have been made. I would add that the bill we are discussing has nothing to do with this. The current draft law would like nothing more than to make the landowners equal in the fact that whoever already owns or owns land, which may have been a state land, has the possibility of raising the rent to the market price level, even if it is the landowner before 2010, and not only if, after 2010, the landowner is currently in that land. So all we want to do is settle market relations in this bill, give the owners equality with equal treatment of the land lease fee. Of course, with all the rest that has been said here, because of the old political reflexes and the negative feelings about the earth that have emerged here, I do not think we can agree. We still cannot agree with what our fellow Member Gábor Staudt said, why you did not like to settle this issue in a two-thirds law, why this should be settled in the civil code. This is a very fraudulent and devious manifestation, because it was just the previous law, which was also recorded by the Balázs Győrffy, and where we wanted to do this settlement in a two-thirds way. However, Jobbik, among other things, did not support this, which is why there was no equal opportunity at the time to settle the land lease fee for the new owners on an equal footing with the tenants before and after 2010. I find such a suggestion immoral that you would have liked to come here with the two-thirds law, and then we would have given our vote to it. There was already the two-thirds law, and I would like to draw the attention of TV viewers, radio listeners and later readers to it, both MSZP and Jobbik strongly rejected it, leaving the chaotic situation that unfortunately now dominates the Hungarian land market in terms of rental rights. In this he wanted and would like to bring order to the current disputed law. In our opinion, this amendment will do so, so our committee has supported the two language-rights amendments with a majority opinion. He did not support what was intended to make the bill proposed by the Balázs Győrffys a separate two-thirds. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion of the committee is presented by MEP Zoltán Magyar, also in a three-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The previous debate on the Committee on Agriculture must be said, however, that opposition representatives did not agree with this proposal for a reason. We know that it is not a first attempt, but a proposal of similar content has already been here, and my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy has also marked that proposal. In that debate, we also said that this amendment might treat and even address a substantive problem. The Jobbik never contested that. We have also received signals that say that it is unfair, in many cases, that farmers in public lands enjoy a competitive advantage, let us say, against competitors operating on a market basis. We can see that, we can see that. At the same time, we strongly believe that this amendment is inseparable from public land privatisation, and you do not deny it either, there have been several statements on this, where it has been made clear that this amendment is necessary because of land privatisation. Jobbik doesn't want to assist in ground-privatisation. There are many reasons for this, however, that we have said that it goes against the vision that Jobbik represents, since from 2018, a fair right-wing government that is expected to stand up will not have a chance of pursuing a quality rural policy, since it will not remain an instrument after the sale of state land. That is why we would like to prevent land privatisation as much as possible and to give the governments of the future the opportunity to make a meaningful contribution to the fate of the countryside, whether it be to create jobs, whether it be to increase the opportunities of rural settlements. Those were our most important reasons. By the way, I find it amazing that the state land issue has been derailed to the level of a gang war, and it was also an extra reason that we cannot support it in such a way. We also do not understand at all the proposal and the ground-privatisation, that, let's say, the former oligarchs and supporters are fighting and trying to spot him. This is your problem, your fight, but interestingly enough, Csányi's interests were not included in the field privatisation and could continue to function as model farms. Although I do not know who Mr Csányi's interests may be in Hungary today. Let me put it mildly, a group of companies famous for their very interesting tax practices do not believe that any decent family farmer can be a model in any way. Or if that's what you think it is, it's a big problem. On the proposal itself, we believe it is against the law, and we have already announced it, we have also agreed with the other opposition groups that we will turn to the Constitutional Court, because we believe that it is in conflict with the Fundamental Law on several points. My amendment, which is in there, and what I would like to propose for adoption, seeks to remedy this and raise it to a level of two-thirds, which is for two-thirds of you under your Fundamental Law. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible for the speakers to speak. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate, the timeframe is available. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to respond to what has been said throughout the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2015-12-14-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The TAB modifier, I think, has improved the spelling errors that are rightly removed from the text presented. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Font, for the clarification. Obviously, I cannot agree with the better proposal, and I have also explained this in the detailed debate. But let's just stop for a second and see where we are. It is worth looking around for a moment and looking at the effects of this legislative amendment. When we submitted the first amendment, we were still ahead of the bids. Then, obviously, we had a theoretical debate about whether it was good for local farmers to buy land or not for local farmers, it is good for the land to remain state-owned, or it is better for farmers to have it in their hands. We didn't agree on that, it was a theoretical debate. By the way, the Constitutional Court, if I understand it correctly, has not yet been able to read this material, but the Constitutional Court has also stated that the Government has the right to sell these areas, if that is the case and has made a decision. But let us look at where we are now, ladies and gentlemen. Bidding's running. Thousands of hectares have become the property of Hungarian farmers with very low rents. My fellow Members, the formula at this moment is infinitely simple. It is necessary to decide for the Hungarian Parliament and, in particular, for my fellow opposition Members, whose side they are on. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Are they on Lajos Simicska's side, or are they on the side of the new farmers? [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-12-14-130	Fellow Members! Everyone has the opportunity to comment during the debate.
u2015-12-14-131	Fellow Members! It's obviously a terrible feeling to be faced with the need to decide... [[György Szilágyi: Lőrinc Mészáros or L. Simon László's wife. Zoltán Haughty interrupts. It's a lot of noise.]]
u2015-12-14-132	Fellow Members! Fellow Members! Calm down! [[György Szilágyi: He tells eye-opening lies.]] Congressman! This can be said in a parliamentary speech, with intelligent means. Here you go, Congressman. [[It's a lot of noise. Zoltán Grimlock: But there is no discussion.]]
u2015-12-14-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, I don't really know how to...
u2015-12-14-134	Fellow Members! I will take advantage of the parliamentary decree and parliamentary law at my disposal, unless otherwise I can restore order. [[16.50]] It is not my pleasure, so let us now give the rapporteur the opportunity to say it calmly, and then I look forward to the speech of everyone who has now vehemently protested. [[Noise. å Intercoms from the opposition benches: It can no longer be because it is closing. For an intervention:]] I'll do it myself.
u2015-12-14-135	Thank you very much. Then I'd try again. I think it is factual and difficult to argue with the fact that a significant amount of hectares have changed hands with the fact that the rent is currently extremely low. Then it must be decided, ladies and gentlemen, that we are on the side of those who have managed an extremely low rent so far, and the aim is, if I understand correctly, to continue, because it is no longer a matter of not buying it by local farmers, because they have already bought it. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, They've already bought it. So now you have two options: either to stand by the local farmers or to eat mercenary cosmos. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Of these two, you can choose quite calmly. Tomorrow, we're going to divorce the wheat, and I'm looking forward to it with great interest, but I'm going to respectfully ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]]
u2015-12-14-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act to the joint municipal offices and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6976. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the minority opinion formulated there, in a time frame of 8+7 in accordance with house rules, with a total of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that on 10 December 2015 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. T/6976 amending Act T/6976 in relation to joint municipal offices. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report on 22 yes, 8 no and no abstentions. The amending proposal states, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, that within five days of the expiry of the deadline for the opinion, the head of the government office will hold a personal consultation with the local authorities concerned. It requires that the government commissioner be personally involved in the conciliation, while my opposition fellow Members have objected to the fact that the government commissioner is consulting with the municipality. The Mötv. The mayor shall represent the municipality in accordance with its provisions. Consequently, the mayor has the power to delegate the right of representatives of the municipality to the Deputy Mayor or to the Office's staff in respect of such consultation. The law requires that the government commissioner should appear in person, so here he does not have the power to delegate, the consultation must be carried out in person. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment is to incorporate a guarantee element that clearly ensures autonomy of the local government. I would ask that you support the adoption of the bill in the light of what has been said. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion of the Legislative Committee is presented by Mr István Tukacs in a seven-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Legislative Committee outlined the circumstances, that is, what is involved, before the minority opinion was drafted. It is because, in the absence of a common agreement, the establishment of a common office of municipalities is often an obstacle. Some government agencies have resolved this by making a decision on this issue; those concerned have turned to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has obliged the legislature to improve the requirements in this regard. Dear House, In our minority opinion, we started from the following point of view. At a time when the legislator solves the task entrusted to him by the Constitutional Court, he simply writes in the submission that the government offices will decide from here on out, that is not enough. Not only is it insufficient because the government office will not far-reaching the interests of the municipalities, but also because the legislator does not put some criteria to the decision in this case: for example, an office with easy access, existing expertise, experience and accumulated knowledge, so dealing with matters. So, in the absence of any of this, the head of the government will decide to make a decision on his own without having to explain anything, whatever he's obligated to make it worth his while. I am not reassured by the fact that for two weeks the municipalities can comment on this decision and then invite them to talk in five days. I am not reassured because there was an ember debate at the committee meeting on the fact that the amendment tabled, namely what my fellow Member Vas Imre said was that after the two weeks of grace, local governments were invited to meet in person, it does not contain a mandatory moment. So while the actual text of the proposal is that the head of the government office should agree - I say in parentheses - to call the municipalities, this is not what the justification is about. Therefore, this amendment remains, in my opinion, against the rules of the house. Dear fellow Members, I have not been able to convince myself that the conciliation is the same as the mandatory opinion included in the explanatory memorandum. It's not the same! Therefore, if the justification does not cover or support the actual amendment, it is against house rules. And it would have been very good, in this text, to set out in part some criteria for government agencies to decide on, so how to make a decision. There should have been confidence in conciliation mechanisms, such as the fact that instead of negotiating, municipalities are developing proposals within their own bodies. It should have been trusted that, after a while, the municipalities could solve their own situation, and we say, because of what I have seen in my county, that it is a miracle of miracles, where it has been a notary, and logically, it should be a common office, it will not. Instead, this joint office will operate in the office of the politically reliable mayor. So this is not just a matter of prestige, fellow Members. It is not about who the rooster is in the dump and whose settlement the office is in, but it is also about serious material and professional matters. Let me tell you, my personal experience is that the resulting joint office, which was created with a command, has simply transferred the money of another settlement back to the Treasury, saying that in his view the other settlement does not need it. Well, that's a big problem for a small village, a few million forints. The problem here is not that the mayors are crossing each other, but that they are hurting the people who live there. Summa summarum, I believe that this amendment, which I still find to be against house rules, and, by the way, the bill, which does nothing more than the state of the law at the time, will be decided and legitimized by the office, will not be adopted. We will not accept it just because hopefully, if a two-thirds law does not pass Parliament tomorrow's vote, then you will be forced to give some thought to how to solve this otherwise existing problem together with mayors, municipal people and local representatives. Therefore, I do not think that this proposal should be a political weapon. Rather, there should be a framework in which we encourage local self-governments to set up a common office, establish cooperation, and, if possible, not to poison their relationship for a long, long time, which is having problems in abundance: lack of money, unemployment, lack of infrastructure, ageing, migration from villages. [[17.00]] We should not add such a bill or such powers to the hands of the government commissioner and deepen tensions instead of promoting cooperation. I have tried to justify the position of minorities, honourable Members and honourable President, but I still believe that this is not a prestige battle for us either, so it is not that we know that we can hopefully prevent a two-thirds law under the rules of mathematics. It is about trying to put a workable proposal on the table of Parliament, which does not create dictatorships, but encourages and encourages cooperation, and, of course, respects the fact that the local government is about the local government, about local decisions and about its own decisions. This government office already has enough power in its hands, and it should not be supplemented with another such instrument. It is bad enough that there are many cases of political and biased decision making in the case of government agencies, that this weapon should not yet be put there and used for the repression of small municipalities. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2015-12-14-140	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak in this debate on behalf of the authors. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] Yeah. I would like to inform you that the ten-minute time frame is valid, so you have ten minutes for the closing and the present speech together. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-14-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government supports the TAB amendment proposal. What has been said here as a justification, I would like to add so much to the fact that the rapporteur for the minority opinion, my fellow Member, Tukacs, has 60 days to reach an agreement, so the procedure begins with two months to reach an agreement. This is a final solution: when they can't reach an agreement after 60 days, then there will be an appointment. I would like to tell you the data for 2014, and I told you the other day: 738 joint offices were established in 2621 settlements, and there were only 24 cases to be selected. So in 24 cases they could not agree in two months, so it was necessary for the state to intervene somewhere, so that the administration could operate in the interests of the people in the settlement; that is because if they do not agree, there is no common office, then there is no salary, there is no managed administration, so this is what is needed. The Constitutional Court did not object to the appointment, but opposed the procedure of the appointment, said that the municipalities should be heard before it, and this amendment is aimed at this from the TAB side. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-142	Thank you very much. You'll have eight and a half minutes to tell the Secretary of State. I am now informing this House that the designated Justice Committee has not set up a rapporteur, so here are the speeches by its Members. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr Sándor Szabó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will go further, Mr Secretary of State, as my fellow Member, István Tukacs, because this is a well-kept system. So let us not assume that, by the way, the municipal offices, the common offices, are so very good. This amendment to the municipal law would not have been necessary if in 2013, when the municipalities were fully reorganized, the self-determination and decision-making rights of the municipalities had not been restricted; if, by the way, the resources of the municipalities had not been taken away, and otherwise we would not have been constantly experiencing a kind of bleeding of the municipalities since 2013. So, if you look at it now, it's a good thing that, by the way, there's only 28 cases of some kind here in the establishment of common offices. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: 24.]] - 24, I'm sorry - problem, and that's a huge merit, let's start with the fact that we shouldn't have gotten here either, if and if you don't want to restrict the self-determination and decision-making rights of the municipalities in 2013. Yes, the Constitutional Court has stated that Parliament is in default of constitutional infringement in relation to the procedure - as the European Charter of Local Authorities states - that it is indeed the procedure - that it is not in the process of seeking the opinion of the local governments on strategic issues of direct importance, and therefore it is obvious that this law must be brought back to Parliament, and something must be said to the local government. We shouldn't have decided to set up such common offices at the time, and then we probably wouldn't have been in this situation. We cannot support the proposal either because, by the way, we think - what my fellow Member has also said - that if there are already such joint municipal offices, and if there is already a need for the same municipalities, then why have they not tried to do so in some way in incentives and in discussions, and not specifically by the government office and then tell us which municipalities have to set up a joint office otherwise. By the way, what the Constitutional Court has just said about the need to seek the opinion of the local authorities during the decision procedure is our opinion only that, by the way, this could have been done by the government office, no one and nothing has prevented the government office, regardless of what the Constitutional Court has said now, from asking for the municipal opinions on the establishment of the common municipal office earlier. This is a bigger problem if, where appropriate, they did so by seeking the opinion of local government offices or municipalities, but in many cases we did not see any guarantee or practice that these opinions would otherwise have been incorporated or accepted by government agencies at the time when they had otherwise decided in the proceedings. That is why we are saying that we would have encouraged the municipalities, that we would not have chosen a drastic form of government office designation when, by the way, we are talking about the establishment of common offices, and not to mention that we do not see, let us say, what situation will arise if, for example, in the case of a settlement, the joint municipal office had to break up, because otherwise, the population of the settlement goes above two thousand people, or in the reverse case: in one settlement, the number of inhabitants falls below two thousand and a common office has to be established. Obviously, wherever local governments operate, decisions are made in their own mechanisms, and this will continue to cause serious problems in the future. Thank you for listening.
u2015-12-14-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Here we have heard from the rapporteur of the TAB, from our fellow Member, Imre Vas, that the meaning of the motion, the soul of everything, is that the autonomy of the local government can finally prevail. Obviously, we have a completely different meaning for municipal autonomy than you, my fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre. I think that if a kind of forced marriage is created by designation, it is not, or is, born in the spirit of municipal autonomy. When we have just heard from Secretary of State Kovács how many places there have been problems with the establishment of a common municipal office, or that there have been 24 or 28 of the hundreds of municipalities, then I would also ask you how many people you think were happy about the need to set up this joint municipal office, and how many forced marriages have actually become of this thing, which is in fact only to comply with some kind of mandatory validity, but in fact it does not serve life in any way, it does not serve the well-being and prosperity of our small settlements. We have a lot of negative experiences, a lot of problems are reported by these mayors and councils, who have been forced to a joint municipal office today. [[17.10]] The fact that you are now the original proposal, so that you have 15 days left for the government office, that if there is no decision between the settlements in question, that this 15 days after being asked for an opinion, will be enhanced by another five days, that the government office has five days to conduct a personal consultation with the mayors concerned, I can only see this as a beauty patch, not a meaningful proposal, not a meaningful solution. The Ab expected you to create the procedure, so the requirement for Parliament to establish the procedure, not to smear it in some way, so we pretend that we are doing a piece of legislation here, as if they were actually making laws. But in fact, these, which you are now putting into the municipal law, are not solving the question, you know it, and we know it, we all know it. I think that, in fact, it is a pity for us, as an opposition, to be involved. Honestly, I don't really understand why we had to go to a five-party meeting on this issue. If you thought or thought that this five-party negotiation really had some kind of meaningful consensus-making opportunity, you would have listened to and listened to our proposals. For example, the decision of the Government Office to set up a joint municipal office should be taken only with due regard for the substance of the opinion of these municipalities. I would add that it could have been formulated in such a way that it would have been done with mandatory consideration. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] For example, at the five-party hearing, I asked the government to come up with a figure of speech for this problem, to address this problem, which was applied to the amendment of the NKA Act, so when we amended the Act on the National Cultural Fund, in the sense that the Hungarian Academy of Arts would have a very big say in the operation of this fund. There is also such a figure of speech that I cannot quote right now, but the point is that the opinion of the MMA must be taken into account, for example, in the case of certain personal issues. If, then, if you were able to solve it there, if you do not think that there will be any problem, and I add that we supported that law, then why can you not fit it into this law? Wouldn't it really be worth asking the mayors of small settlements? Wouldn't it be worth finding a basis for a common future based on a truly agreed and shared agreement? So why is it important to you that you are definitely cementing some kind of conflict, which we know will only give birth to bad and negative in the future, and I would add, in the near future. In other words, the common municipal office, as a concept, as a legal institution, is your creation, I say, a distorted birth. There used to be a Circuit Society, which lived in Hungary for about 140 years, even if I don't count the period of communism, for a long time. We could say it was a viable facility. But you've eliminated this by a feather stroke, the Mötv. the creation of this option has ended, and the freedom of association has been severely restricted by the municipalities. This joint municipal office has now been established, and all the problems related to it, and you do not want to deal with this issue in substance. I'm telling you to eat what you've cooked. That's it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is no other place to start but the fact that there is a failure to comply with the basic law, the Constitutional Court has formulated and ordered that this thing be put in order by 15 December. Tomorrow will be the day of the vote on 15 December, and then, in that sense, you will consider all that has been done here for the past few weeks to be in order. So this is practically how the unconstitutional infringement is intended to be replaced. Mr Secretary of State, I think - but I am not alone in this - that the fundamental error can be derived practically from the fact that in 2013 the self-determination of the municipalities was substantially impaired and then introduced from 1 January 14. As a result, there have been a multitude of distorted situations which are obviously not easy to manage by the municipalities. My fellow Member, Tukacs, has quite clearly formulated and said the anomalies which, in particular, in relation to the multitude of small settlements, in relation to the call to life of the joint municipal offices, can practically come to the surface as a problem. He has also given a specific example, but it is not unique, I would like to point out, this example, we can say more of this only here within the framework of the Socialist Group, so even if we consider the whole of the opposition. I have to say that, in particular, they should not be concerned with this, but rather with the provision of funding at the level of the municipalities in relation to the provision of tasks. Now we are here in the middle of December, 14th, and if we are now lining up nearly 3200 settlements in Hungary and looking at what the question looks like in terms of project financing, we would be in a lot of trouble, just because we have to face the multitude of problems that mayors each of us are suffering. What I am trying to say is that, when and when the designation of joint municipal offices in connection with the call to life is being considered, and they think that this is the solution, they should rather think about the fact that, where and where there are first circles, there are no common solutions to the call to life of joint municipal offices, instead of exercising dictatorships and identifying the types of positive incentive schemes that should be put in place. It would be much better not only the acoustics of the story, but also its contents, and it would be much more effective for the weeks, months, years of cooperation that followed, because it is almost antagonistic for small municipalities to create irreconcilable contradictions, and it cannot be anyone's goal. Because, as you said earlier in your brief speech, I agree with your sentence that it is in the best interests of the people of the settlements. If they do, then they should act not to turn the municipalities against each other, but to carry out activities to strengthen them. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Sándor Hadházy of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The transformation of municipalities, I think, is a successful story. It is a successful story because, by 2010, the municipalities had actually bled out, as they had given the municipalities tasks that the related funding system could not maintain, and the municipalities simply went into this work because, well-intentionally, representing local interests, all their efforts were to meet the needs and expectations of the population. The funding system for education was, please, about 40 percent of the costs were financed by the State, and the rest had to be collected from local sources. The social security system was similarly catastrophic. Health care, too. The operation of the settlement is also carried out. All these had to be financed from local sources. [[Nándor Gúr: Don't talk about health care and education.]] So I am extremely surprised at the fact that Sándor Szabó, my MSZP colleague, is talking about the current bleeding out of the municipal system. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! The intervention of Márius Révész. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a physical error, please respectfully. [[17.20]] Local governments are fine. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They are cooperative; they know what source they can farm from and can carry out the task that the law has entrusted them with. Dear Parliament, Another such thought was that my fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, should set up an incentive system to think more together and work more closely with the local authorities. True, incentive can mean a great deal. But hopefully he didn't mean the type of incentive system that was imposed on municipalities in the time of Mónika Lamperth with multi-purpose small regional partnerships, which were actually such formal things, and could actually perform very poor tasks with very poor efficiency and very little. This incentive scheme practically did not work. Finally, I would like to respond to the question raised by my fellow Member, István Tukacs, namely that the legislator should set up a system of criteria and criteria on what basis the appointment should take place. If that is what the legislator would do, then that would be exactly the excuse for the system of considerations that Parliament wants to impose on the poor municipal world. I believe that this solution is correct, and I trust that the practice will confirm this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-12-14-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Sándor Hadházy, our two differences of opinion immediately, because it seems that we have a difference of opinion not only in relation to the assessment of fairness, but also in our view of democracy is fundamentally different. I do not wish to repeat what has already been said here in the general debate, but at the moment, as the Secretary of State has said, this change of legislation seeks to codify the existing practice. After all, the Secretary of State has said that until now the municipalities have been asked, and now it is only included in the legislation. But so far, it has not been good for the municipalities. Are you saying it's fair? What correctness is it when I oblige you to listen to the opinion, and now it is graciously included that it may be possible to meet in person, but not to take into account what the other person says? No matter what you say, I'll make my own decision. That's exactly the kind of democracy difference I say. What's the fidesz sense of democracy about? Two wolves and a deer decide what to eat. What do we say? I think we should seek consensus. There should be an opportunity for the enforcement of the law, the executive power, to seek consensus. I think I asked so little, so little. I tabled an amendment. All I asked was for the decision maker to strive for consensus. He didn't support the ruling party, and that doesn't mean that it's tied down anymore. Where is this from when we should describe the specific order of this procedure? And there are many reasons why we do not support this in this form, but, above all, because there is no ambition in it, there is no guarantee that there is a consensus-making process and that the possibility of small settlement municipalities is the kind that is otherwise required by the Constitutional Court decision. As I said, I do not wish to repeat what has been said in the general debate, but to allow one thing. The Constitutional Court's decision in the explanatory part states that the European Charter of Local Authorities must comply with the decision, Article 6, point 1, which states that local authorities, without prejudice to the more general provisions of the law, must determine their internal administrative structure in order to adapt to local needs and to manage them more effectively - and the important word now comes. It's the local government itself when you can get in the middle of it yourself. But so maybe someone just listens to the opinion and doesn't have to ignore it, where would that be? So this proposal, which is before us now, is fundamentally not in line with the obligation of the Constitutional Court to make the proposal at all. [[Dezső the gullible will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] For it is not possible for someone, one of the local governments that does not want to belong to another - no matter what the reason, it may be for stupidity, or it may not be good for him, anger, personal conflict - to be taken into account for his municipality. And this is the endeavour that you should give in to, precisely because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, you should seek consensus with the opposition, in order to have the hope that these municipalities will have the opportunity to count on their opinion at some level. And it is important which municipalities receive it, because there is one more problem with all this. And it has just been said here that how many municipalities are affected by this whole case - 20, 28, it doesn't matter. But how many municipalities that, despite their disapproval, went into a common office, swallowed the frog, even though they didn't want to, but didn't necessarily want to cross it, just like the others who did? Why shouldn't the system be revised? Why is it against your interests to say that a system must be adopted where the principle of consensus is achieved; where municipalities can fulfil the requirement of the local government charter, referred to by the Constitutional Court, so that they can determine their own administrative system. And besides, those who, as it turns out, have, on the basis of unconstitutional legislation, agreed to go in, might review their position and decide whether they want to stay or not. This is where we look for consensus. I have lived with an amendment motion, really giving the government a very, very broad framework for at least the expression of consensus seeking in this decision. You have rejected this. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs also rejected my fellow Member's proposal and tried to propose similar provisions. And tomorrow they will point out to the opposition that the decision of the Constitutional Court cannot be implemented because of the opposition. It's not like that. A large number of small-town municipalities have also contacted me personally, only in the case that, in this form, we do not allow this to pass through Parliament in any form, because this is in violation of the interests of many local authorities that do not want to have to cooperate with the other local authorities assigned to them in that form and so. It is therefore necessary to have a consensus between the opposition and the ruling party on this issue, so that the possibility of seeking consensus can also be achieved by the municipalities. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-14-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-153	Thank you, Mr. President. In the short time I have left, I would like to draw attention to two things again. So when a decision is made and then the stakeholders' opinions are asked, that is, it's not about asking their opinion, and then a decision is made, it's a different mechanism. So what I object to is that we decide first, then we ask your opinion, without any obligation. The other one. It is not well in the amendment, believe me, fellow Members, that we use such a word magic, that we call on them to agree, and then we write in the explanatory memorandum that this is because we want to take their views into account. That's the reason. Read it. Except they're not the same. And in the text of the law, of course, there is an unobligated consultation, quasi-conversation, which doesn't make any sense in the world. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-12-14-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State, if he wishes to close in the time frame of 8 minutes and 30 seconds. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-12-14-155	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise I won't take the 8 minutes, I understand the warning, so to speak. I would like to draw attention to some mistakes. First of all, let us go through the procedure, dear fellow Members. It's not the government's decision that ends the procedure, it's the court's decision. First of all, there are 60 days for the municipalities to agree. If they do not agree, there is an opinion procedure within 15 days, asking why they did not agree on what solution could be considered. So that's 75 days. And then there's five more days, and then in 30 days, you can even go to court. So the point on the "i" is not the government office, as Nándor Gúr said here, that they are practicing dictatorships. I don't know how to practice dictatorships, but if I had an old history department and a private university, I would invite Nándor Gúr to speak with a socialist rhetoric, with an antagonistic, with a dictatorship, and with words like that, without saying anything otherwise. But to the point, ladies and gentlemen, there is a conflict of interest between the municipalities here. If there's a conflict of interest between the municipalities, which one should you give the truth to anyway? [[17 .30]] The problem is, since there's a conflict of interest, it's got to be decided somewhere. After all, the court will decide. It's an intermediate station where the state decides exactly what to do with the administration. As for the other issues, it can be amended at any time, Congressman Sallai. So you're not forced to spend four or five years on a local government. It can be modified, it can come out. This was also the case in the case of notaries, that at any time, except for the year of the election, it could be modified, otherwise the previous ones were used by the municipalities. It's not out of the question now. It can be done now. As regards the freedom of organisation for internal administration, what an office looks like from the inside, it does not involve the lives of the municipalities, anyway, neither the government office nor, ultimately, the court. As regards the amendments, our fellow Member Mrs Loránt Hegedűs wanted to give the municipality veto over the appointment. But I'm asking you, which one do we give veto rights to? If it's both, then nothing happens, everything stays the same, there's no common office either way. I appreciated the efforts of our fellow Member Sallai, he said that consensus should be established in a meaningful way, but this is not a legal concept, a court does not know that. What do you mean, it has to be done in a meaningful way? You can't force that, not even with court power, or with a court order. There are quite a few lawyers sitting here in Parliament, and they can confirm that. We've also been looking for the warranty concept that could otherwise be incorporated into the system, and we couldn't find it. We found rubber concepts. The concept of rubber cannot be implemented anywhere, and is not comparable to the NKA, I think, because there is a unique decision, a single decision, there is no conflict of interest, å likes it, does not like it. It is possible to incorporate such a concept, but where there is a conflict of interest, it cannot unfortunately be resolved. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Tukacs, that there is not a discussion after that, but before that, in the 15 days, so there is a conciliation procedure. It has been, by the way, that government agencies have been trying to establish a consensus. It wasn't after the decision, it was before. So there's a 60-day government meeting, then there's a government office 15-day, then there's another five-day, and then there's the court. So the decision takes place after 60+15+5 days, not before and after, because it doesn't make sense. I agree with that, but it's the other way around. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I would try to push you in the direction of supporting this proposal, so that we do not have the debate, as before, that if, in the absence of support, the old rule, which is contrary to the Charter and the Constitution, because we do not have the two-thirds, that is the worst situation. This will allow us to take a step forward in our view, and if we can find a way that I still do not rule out which procedure to apply, but no proposal has been made in this regard, we can move forward with one more step. That's the first step. I think that they will accept and support this. I think we're in, and I can also say that I'm not sure it's locked. I would add that this is already the competence of the Ministry of Interior - as the Ministry of Local Government - but I believe that, overall, this proposal can be supported, saying our difficulties as well, and our intention to improve was to try as much as possible to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is why we are discussing this issue here in Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-14-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/7408 submitted by our colleagues from József Varga, Gyula Budai, Imre Vas, Répássy, Róbert B. Nagy, Katalin Csöbör, János Pócs, László Vigh and Alpár Gyopáros Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. For the first time in the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 10 December 2015 is the Parliament's Rules 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on Local Governments of Hungary, CLXXXIX of 2014 discussed. T/7408. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, four non-voting votes. The summary amendment contains the first of the two-point amendment tabled by the Judicial Committee. The purpose of the amending proposal is thus to facilitate the social mayor of the settlement with a population of more than 1500 inhabitants to carry out tasks related to his/her post by setting the amount of the compensation paid to him/her as 40% of his/her monthly fee. That is why I am asking you to support the proposed bill, which will allow for a 30% increase in the salary of small-scale mayors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-14-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask the rapporteur, on behalf of Mr Vas Imre, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] You do not wish to, so in this case you will have 10 minutes to say the closing word. Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask you now if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás and Secretary of State Mariann Water East indicate that they do not. I would like to inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to its Members to address the set time limits. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr Sándor Szabó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what they used to say, the mountains were in labor and they gave birth to mice, but they gave birth to a good little mouse. I don't know how long it has been before Parliament that the salaries of small town mayors are paid especially by honourable Members, because I think István Happy was his first suggestion, and then there was a group of 4-5 people with Fidesz, who, while not proposing specifically the salaries of mayors, would have tried to increase the salaries or salaries of small town mayors through conflict of interest rules. Then neither the proposal of Mr Happy nor the proposal of these 4-5 Members came to nothing, and this new amendment, which was also proposed by a dozen pro-government Members. How can I put it, István Happy's previous proposal was completely different from that of the previous 4-5 pro-government MEPs who brought a version to Parliament. We have indeed had a very long and concrete debate on this. Our main problem with the mayor's salary was that the bill itself was about the current amendment, the most recent amendment, that small town mayors can get a raise of 30%, but they have to raise it themselves from their own income. At the time, in the parliamentary debate, we told you that, along with our fellow opposition Members. As much as Congressman Hadházy has just said, how well the municipalities are doing, and there has not been any bleeding of any kind to the municipalities, I would like to point out that two thirds of the municipalities, but two thirds of the municipalities, have daily livelihood problems and have enough money to run the settlements today. So we, opposition representatives, thought, in layman's terms, that the mayors of small towns would probably not be able to produce this, so if we already have such an initiative, although we have tabled a proposal earlier - Jobbik and LMP - we should try to improve this. [[17.40]] And it was a very surprising turn of events when Congressman Vitányi indicated that Fidesz did indeed have a proposal for an amendment, which concerns it - because they too saw the substance and root of the problem, that they would not really be able to produce this money by the mayors of small towns, and that they would ask the government to provide it. There was also a very brief discussion on this, and if it were acceptable by the opposition, then such a proposal would come in on this, and then I think that everyone could have supported it. But now we have another proposal for 15 percent of people under 1500, 40 percent for mayors of settlements over 1500, and there it is again that the municipalities themselves have to manage it. Tell me, my honourable members of the Government, who is the magician among you. Who makes suggestions, by the way? We discussed something here two weeks ago, and then there was a tighter discussion, and everyone agreed that otherwise, they probably wouldn't be able to produce this money, and then they'd just have to help. There is now a summation amendment to this point, in which neither the previous figures nor the previous political groups are correct, we are talking about 15 and 40 percent. Plus, if I look at your logic, I don't understand, because the salaries of the mayors of the smallest settlements have fallen the most. So I do not understand why they have a lower percentage, the 15 percent, and why larger settlements have the possibility of increasing their earnings as compensation. So I just don't understand where and who's getting these suggestions. Who do you want to meet? Because it's clear that the mayors of small towns don't, because that's already a joke, and I think it's unworthy of them, too, that you're making proposals here almost weekly, and I don't think you have any idea what you're bringing here. 'Cause by the way, I could say why 15 percent, why not 20 percent, why 40 percent isn't 30 percent, and we could still get into these debates. But I think it's unworthy. I think that we all agreed on that during our debate, and I don't want to say that small town mayors do a lot of tasks, run settlements, write applications, vigilantes, and yet legitimate leaders, because there people choose mayors to be the number one leader by direct election. It was quite simply impossible for me to understand why in 2014 they had to reduce their salary, especially the salaries of small-town mayors. We cannot therefore support this proposal, fellow Members of the Government. I do not know if opposition parties will be able to support this proposal. There was a kind of consensus, and we agreed that if we were to raise, we had already agreed to everything on the part of the opposition, but the main criterion was that the state would be kind enough to provide this money to the municipalities. Now here's another proposal with aired numbers and reimbursements. I don't know where the limit is. Take the mayors of small settlements a little more seriously, because what you do in this regard is completely unworthy. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying whether what we are about to vote on is indeed a two-thirds law. So is there really a need for this debate that we are having here, whether there is any need for consultation and so on. Yes, according to form, this legal passage is also declared two-thirds by the paragraph of the current municipal law that regulates fundamentality. Yes, but this legislative passage, which regulates fundamentality, is only a half section, so you could change that, you could take this section out of it, which regulates the mayor's salary, you could put it in half, because the Fundamental Law doesn't say a word about it. I have now looked here directly before the debate, and the Fundamental Law contains rules on contact with the municipalities until Article 31-35, and there is no mention of how much the mayor's salary should be. So you guys could totally do this. To add, this is your daily routine. The Fundamental Law itself was born this way in the past. You guys got off easy and cheap, so you could've just solved it. But why did they not do so? Why didn't you use this procedure in this matter? That's because you don't want to solve this issue. It has just been said from our fellow Member how many times he has been partly on your part, partly on our part, by presenting the salary increase of small village mayors, there have been countless ideas of how many percent, exactly how much and so on, how much more can be paid in addition. But you have not even put these proposals on the agenda every time. Now there's this, let's say, mule solution that you've come up with, which is indeed one of the biggest problems of which is that you're making a separate assumption that it's against your own income. I would add that if you had not written this in, but left out this little word link, you would have had to pay your own income, because at the moment, according to Annex 2 (paragraph 1 (a) of the Finance Act, yes, this cannot be financed from the general operating framework at present, and besides, all salaries, all salaries, all allowances should be financed by the municipalities themselves from their own income. So, we have tabled this proposal on several occasions, it has been voted down, nothing has happened. We have calculated how much of this huge amount of money is being spent, which is also being discussed in this debate, which is why you have rejected this earlier proposal. And you know what we found? It means it's about a billion forints. By the way, we are talking about partly social mayors, but let's assume that if everyone was full-time, it would be, say, a billion and a half forints. I suggest that if the government has this 1usque 1.5 billion forint problem, then they should ask Árpád Habony for this money, I think he's in Ibiza with his vest pocket like this. [[He's showing it with his hands.]] We should not have sat here, robbed taxpayers' money of unnecessary and useless disputes, and this issue could have been resolved once and for all, but they did not do so. We know that if this money was to be managed by the settlements at the expense of their own income, the only way to do that would be to raise taxes there, locally. In English, what is the message of your bill? Well, the fact that you're mayor, tax the people well, and then you'll get paid. But is that what we want? Is that what we expect from small town mayors? Is this really the vision Fidesz is building for small towns and small villages? So that the mayors would be a kind of local Dumpster taxing the people so that they could earn as much income as possible afterwards, as much as possible? I do not think that this is a healthy and indeed a proposal for the development of the countryside. Therefore, we cannot support this in this form. In order to help with the government's legislative work, we thought that they must have had no time, had the opportunity, had the opportunity to make a budget amendment, we submitted it, and today was also discussed by the Committee on Budgets. This would be about the fact that what I have just mentioned to you is described in Annex 2 to the Finance Act at all times in the form of grants that the municipalities can spend on certain tasks, and paragraph 1 is about general operation, including the maintenance of the mayor's office. Here you have the opportunity to put half a sentence in order to settle this issue with central budget support. [[17.50]] And what do you think happened at the Budget Committee meeting? Well, what happened is that the pro-government people voted against this proposal, they rejected it. Well, that's the answer to whether the Fidesz government wants to solve this problem or not. No, they don't want to solve it! They don't want to increase the salary of small-town mayors, actually, this is just a smearing issue, and we're just gonna pretend to be legislaters again, and we're gonna use it to stun the people. But I would add that you are mistaken, because the about two thousand mayors who are talking about here understand the situation precisely, but they are watching this debate, they know exactly what they are voting for and where they are putting their vote! And that's exactly why we're not gonna vote for this two-thirds law tomorrow, because we're not gonna turn playing into a law! We're not doing anything like voting and helping, and we're making things worse. So don't count on us. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-162	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What you're doing here is a long year ago with the salaries and salaries of small town mayors, it would be ridiculous, but it's rather deplorable, I have to say, because you're playing with people and settlements. First, they said that they would carry out organisation activities related to public employment and that they would receive remuneration from the government. It raises a category of conflicts of interest, or it belongs to BM now, so I can tell you that they wanted to tie them to a ledger. So what you're doing is unacceptable. After that, when they say to create resources through municipal revenue, but this cannot be done differently, as is said today in the walls of the house: tax people in the settlement, and then they will make their own salaries, incomes, salaries. Look, it's totally unfair what you've been doing over the last year on this issue. In addition, nothing impresses you, it doesn't matter whether the amendments made by your own representatives or ours get in. With Sándor Szabó's leadership, which we have tabled, we also say - in addition to TÖOSZ's opinion - that in the settlements below 500 people, 40 per cent of the salary for the Deputy State Secretary, and 50 per cent of the remuneration for the 500 and 1500 people. You don't care, you don't count, you don't weigh. So what I have to say is that it doesn't matter that István Happy is putting in the amendment as a fidesz Member, or Sándor Szabó or anyone else, you're talking about it, you're coming up with more than another story, and you're actually not doing anything. Mayors don't need mayor's gratitude money. No! These people work with honor for the people in the settlement, these people should be given a mayor's fee to ensure their livelihood. If you have taken this away from them in the autumn of 2014, then you must restore that order, but you must pay these people, give them the honor they can earn, and then you can expect them to honor the interests of the settlements and the interests of the people who live there. Otherwise, this will be very difficult to achieve. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-14-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek from the Group of the LMP is now taking the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I came to a conclusion similar to Mrs. Loránt Violin. For a while, I thought it was a simple election scam they were doing, so what we're used to is taking the benefits off before the election, so the fewer people left in the fall, the fewer people in the ring. Statistically, if you look at the number of mayor seats, there was a continuous decline from 2006 onwards, so about 60 percent of them started in 2010 at the mayor's competition, and then this number fell even further. So I figured it was a simple election scam, like they do, take people off, don't want to go, then raise them. No, it didn't. So it became my conclusion that no, this is not the case, but that Fidesz has this little policy that it needs 2 million hundred thousand voters, it has to be held together, all the others can be given up, they don't have to give anything, it doesn't matter what's going on with them, and unfortunately, the Hungarian small settlements fall into this circle, who are not needed. It is not effective for them to campaign, it is not possible to reach them on Facebook, it is not a very effective voting base, it is difficult to keep them together, it is possible to give up this 1000-1500 small settlement. It doesn't matter what they think, you don't have to give anything to the mayors there, and that's pretty much the policy that led us here. And that's pretty much what this legislation communicates, this kind of thing is nothing, take it well. They practically bring one of these things here, which can't have a functional effect on these people's lives, and they're basically thinking it's gonna be possible to farm it out. Obviously, if you didn't pursue the policy of Gyurcsány in this area and didn't build a system of bleeding out the countryside, when even a small settlement could have access to local sources of business tax or its own revenue, it might even have a point. But please, we're talking about settlements where there's no own income, where there's no local business tax. We are not talking about Budaörs, we are talking about settlements where there is no source from which this can be exploited. So I wrote it here on purpose, because this quote was so beautiful, this one was never so good to the municipalities; I just said it to one of my fellow members who was pro-government. I wanted to quote this because it's so silly what they're saying it's something incredible. Technically, there is not enough funding for basic mandatory tasks, and they even give you the opportunity to raise funds for basic tasks by means of such a land tax, and then they say that, well, I am very graciously contributing to raising your cost. So this attitude is totally unacceptable, the question is, in effect, whether you can acknowledge that Hungarian people are also living there. Are you aware that in areas where the greatest need is for people with high skills to run a settlement, with management skills, organisational skills, communication skills, applications, where innovation is most needed to keep the population in these small settlements, I say that I can actually let this go, there is no need. We don't need people there. People like that are gonna be good. And then there are two kinds of people left at the head of these settlements. One of them is the depraved local patriot, whose heart is the settlement, that is all he has; we see a few of them, with whom we negotiate, that they would do anything for their settlement. And the other one is the kind of con man who's gonna supplement it from here and there, from a little LEADER community, and from here and there comes some money, and it doesn't matter what the money is. And you want to strengthen this system. So obviously we were looking for a solution, with my fellow Member István Ikotity, the first time last summer was to try to reconstruct this state of affairs before the change of legislation, and obviously afterwards we saw that this is not such a serious intention for you to take a meaningful step in this. Among the fellow government representatives, we have a number of those here who have acted as mayors of small settlements. If I show you the lines behind me like this, there's more people who've lived through this. And now he doesn't get up, and he doesn't say it's an untenable situation, which is incomprehensible. It is not understandable that they should simply allow them to come here in these settlements with a rule that resembles the smart girl from the Hungarian folk tale, who carries the gift between the sieves, that the pigeon flies away, I brought something, and I didn't. I'm gonna make a legislative amendment, something's gonna change in a few paragraphs, but it's not gonna be any better for anyone, because it could only be better for someone who doesn't need it, because maybe it's a better settlement. So obviously, I don't like this attitude very much, because it's not an elegant term in the first place, because it would have been good to make it clear before the municipal elections, when someone decides to challenge themselves for a mayor's seat or not, then it's fair that I tell you what conditions you're going to have to do your job in these four years, with what expenses, with what salary. And in the meantime, it's a relatively nonsensical thing, but we're still begging for it. Well, here in opposition factions... so we, the LMP, are very clear from this point of view, you know, we don't have a very small town mayor, we're not fighting for our own, we're fighting for a bunch of people we see fighting every day under impossible circumstances, and we could at least give them a little appreciation. That is what we wanted to ask you to do, and to do so, we ask you to come up with a normal legislative proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate here, I worked in the local government for a few months, and I was also a Member. It is therefore very difficult to make a firm statement on the salaries of mayors of small settlements. However, we can say that I spoke to the mayor of several small settlements these days, asked him that he was satisfied with his salary, and said that - he gave a very simple example - that if I compared mine to the wages of the public worker, he would earn five times as much. If I add responsibility, then the public servant makes ten times more money. [[18.00]] It was mentioned here that the only way to raise this source is to raise taxes. But there is one other solution, a very unfortunate solution: if you give up volunteering tasks. Among the voluntary tasks, for example, are the support of Bursa Hungarica, the talented students of which there are a lot of small villages, so that the municipality can contribute to their educational costs. Or, for example, cultural expenses. If you feel like a national side, how can a small settlement arrange a high-quality commemoration at a ceremony in 56 if you do not have a source? It's the only place he can take me from, nowhere else. These are the two solutions: either to raise taxes or to give up voluntary duties. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think that the proposal that Jobbik has also made to ensure that the mayors of small settlements can pay their salary from the budget will stand up here. I think there's a place for that, they've been talking about it for years, but nothing happened. The mayors are interested not only in speech but also in actions. Please accept the Jobbik's amendment to assign budget resources to him. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We will continue our work by asking if anyone else wishes to apply for a statement on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Vas Imre, if he wishes to react. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2015-12-14-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! I would like to respond briefly to what has been said. It has been considered whether this legal provision is fundamental. Article 31 (3) of the Fundamental Law clearly provides that the rules applicable to local authorities are laid down by a cardinal law. In our view, it's clearly fundamental. Our fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs is right to believe that the fundamentality clause is a half - this debate has already been carried out in the Legislative Committee - but this does not mean that the fundamentality clause could be modified contrary to the Basic Law by a half law. In our view, the first four paragraphs of the provision that is covered by this law - except for the entry into force and the polarity clause - are half provisions. Those who do not vote for the law tomorrow do not wish to allow the mayor's salary to be increased by 30 percent in settlements below 1500 persons; they do not want to allow the settlements with a population of more than 1500 to pay 40 percent instead of 15 percent for the mayor with a social mandate; those who do not vote tomorrow do not want to alleviate the conflict of interests of the mayors of the settlements with a population of less than 1500. If we adopted the law under the new rule, it would not be a conflict of interest if the mayor carried out an organizational work on public employment within the framework of the mandate. So those who do not vote in favour of this bill do not want the mayor's salary to be hijacked in the settlements below 1500 people, they do not want the mayors with a social mandate to receive 40 per cent instead of 15 per cent, and they do not want the mayors of the settlements under 1500 not to be conflicted with the organizational work related to public employment. In my opinion, if someone doesn't vote for this bill, it goes against the interests of small settlements and their mayors. I therefore call on all opposition representatives to support the submitted bill and the amendment adopted by the TAB in tomorrow's vote. Thank you for listening.
u2015-12-14-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/7392. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the House that the Legislative Committee on 3 December 2015 is under the rule of law 46. T/7392 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 28 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own amendment proposal, which was also adopted in the same proportion. According to the proposal, it is appropriate that the Minister responsible for e-administration should be responsible for the legislation to be issued under the authority of this Act, so that, on the basis of the proposal, the Minister responsible for e-administration, instead of the President of the MNHH, is authorised to adopt an implementing regulation on trust services. On the basis of the amendment, this function of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority should not be treated as an essential provision. Let me tell you, the legislator has the right to decide who he gives authority to: the government, the minister or the president of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. In the present case, if the proposal is adopted, the Government or the Minister of the Interior may issue a regulation on certain issues, and a majority in Parliament is sufficient. In addition, the amendment reflects the final task system of the electronic signature function linked to the new identity card. According to the original provision, KEKKH would also have completed the Eat. - electronic signature services under certain tax laws and other related laws. On the basis of the amendment, the identity card with the storage element is carried out by a service provider designated for this purpose in the Government Decree related to the electronic signature function. I would add that the amendment clarifies the mandate of the Government Decree necessary for the detailed arrangements for issuing a new identity card in accordance with the requirements of legislative drafting and constitutionality. Ladies and gentlemen, The only point of the bill to be adopted would have required a two-thirds majority, which refers to Article 23 (4) of the Fundamental Law, which covers the right of the head of the separate regulatory body to establish a regulation. However, given that we do not give the President of the NMHH the right to establish a regulation, the scope of the content of this law is entirely a half law, and I therefore ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] It refers to the right of the head of the separate regulatory body to establish a regulation. However, given that we do not give the President of the NMHH the right to establish a regulation, the scope of the content of this law is entirely a half law, and I therefore ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. )
u2015-12-14-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State Pogács, if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda; a two-minute comment is not possible. I'll see if anyone wants to tell me. [[For signal:]] Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik. Here you go. [[18.10]]
u2015-12-14-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a bill that is fundamentally forward-looking, and we ourselves acknowledge that. Obviously, the words of the times need to be followed, and there is an increasing need to switch from paper-based administration to electronic administration. There's no doubt about that for anyone. I also said in the general debate that this is about the same magnitude as when, about a thousand years ago, or in the Roman Empire, two thousand years ago, they switched from orality to paper-based administration, and there was a trace of everything left, about this magnitude of converting to electronic administration today. But that's why there are different drawbacks and difficulties. Obviously, those of the Members of Parliament who were practicing lawyers here know what problems electronic administration has raised and how much it has been done, making matters that are simpler and more complicated, if any. These are probably the difficult years of transition, when it will be very difficult to get used to the new system. I think that this is particularly a problem for the lawyers or administrators who are about to retire. It also causes a particular problem when, unfortunately, electronic files are not to be sent to different bodies at different levels on the basis of the same programme, and a completely different system is to be applied. This means that those who use it on a daily basis and do not work in office and authority, but, let's say, in a lawyer's office, then they need the help that competent IT experts can put alongside, in downloading new programs, where appropriate, in a case, within a group of cases, with different programs, which is particularly difficult, especially until these roads are completed. As I hear today, at the moment in the lawyer society, this legislation, as well as other legislation that makes electronic administration mandatory on all legal pages and levels, cause quite a lot of outrage, especially now, towards the end of the year. After all, there is a new time when we need to move more and more to electronic administration, and unfortunately, what we see is that at the moment, our position is that we are not yet prepared for a lawyer's society, or others, to introduce it now, with such a sudden amount of steam and everywhere, at all levels. Obviously, we fully agree with the aim, but I think that this should be introduced at a much slower pace. We see that the law lists which authorities will be required to represent, which cases, which business entities. But there's definitely a problem here that there's no way to measure law firms in one way or another. After all, the law firms where there are money orders, where more lawyers work, there is no problem in creating the IT background. While, where appropriate, if we are talking about a rural lawyer who is alone in his own small office and who is trying to meet the challenges of the age, he too needs to create the same electronic background for hundreds of thousands of forints, then obviously the inequalities on this side will be increased by this obligation, which this legislation and other legislation, such as electronic registration and administration, have made mandatory. So I think in this case, too, because, in virtually all areas of public administration and administration, electronic administration will become mandatory under this law, this will certainly cause a lot of problems in the next period, in the next one or two years. At the moment, we are talking about the fact that rural lawyers have also expressed doubts as to whether they will be able to do meaningful work in certain areas where electronic administration is mandatory in the next six months. It may even be that they will simply fall to one tenth temporarily until they get the hang of it. Then, on a dumping basis, the administration of administrative bodies and courts and the administrative bodies acting on them will be released. I think that a more flexible period of time should be introduced in these, or a more flexible way of introducing it, and this is what we consider important, so that we take into account everyone, so that the transition to electronic administration in the entire territory of Hungarian society can be achieved continuously and without any difficulty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. This is Congressman Árpád Velez, MSZP.
u2015-12-14-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the general rules of trust services aims to provide a legislative framework for an important and currently poorly and fragmentedly regulated area. In this respect, we consider it useful, forward-looking for further development, we have said this before. Certain chapters of the proposal contain very well, followed by procedural processes, and the IT technical requirements intelligibly. Among these parts, however, the common goal is to improve the quality of the service and increase its efficiency will be lost due to editing and wording errors. It seems as if the three separate laws of the author had just been placed side by side. In our opinion, this bill is not progressing with age, and the current government is once again able to achieve the state of pre-IT destruction status of 2011 through services based on the proposal. However, further development of systems that have already been in place would have made it possible to achieve much higher results with significantly lower budgetary costs. The development of infocommunication services in the last five years has brought about changes that are not taken into account in the bill at all. It must be recognised that the Internet is the same utility as electricity, gas, water supply, transport infrastructure, railways and highways. In view of this, it is necessary to strengthen the nature of the public service provider, taking into account new platforms and user habits. The bill is stuck at the level of technical development of the first decade of the millennium and does not take into account the changed user habits of the latest technical tools, such as the rapid roll-out of smartphones. As we have said in the previous debate, in summary, I can say that the drafting of the bill is unacceptably low-quality, arbitraryly thrown together, possibly useful elements. Due to careless legislation, some of its elements may be contrary to the Fundamental Law; it builds on yesterday, and it should help today and tomorrow. Therefore, despite the fact that it also contains forward-looking rules and the regulation of the area is essential, it is unacceptable for the Hungarian Socialist Party in this form. It can only be the subject of an actual debate after significant improvements and amendments. We propose the withdrawal of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-12-14-176	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa, MSZP!
u2015-12-14-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I am not sure what I wish to say is appropriate in the closing debate, but what has been said in the debate is an incentive to try to give weight to the fact that such a bill does not live on its own. So it doesn't start, it ends with being put into Parliament, but what can go into practice, really help the lives of citizens, make the administration smoother, more modern. The experience I've heard from my constituents and acquaintances who have tried to use these infocommunications systems, especially in the area of public administration, in relation to government windows, during licensing, all report that this is not actually working. In fact, it really doesn't work. That such a bill does not address this, that it requires, for example, the training of officials and civil servants involved in it, that they at least know what this system knows, how to use it smoothly, to impose obligations on the government, what equipment to have... Well, I've heard things about certain types of permits that the Bureau can only accept in electronic form. [[18.20]] At the same time, the administrator quietly requests that if a copy were printed, he would be happy to do so, because he would be able to comment much sooner, because otherwise, through his own official electronics system, he can only obtain very complicated, towed and difficult access. So beyond what my fellow Member Árpád Velez said, that the bill is stuck at a technical level of development ten years ago, I would like to raise my voice in order to keep the current practice at least open to opportunities. So it is very nice that the government spends a lot of taxpayers' money on sports facilities, especially football stadiums - because let's make it clear that Tao is a tax forint that is transferred from the central budget to sports facilities, sports uses, these are serious ten billion - if only a fraction of this electronic utilities, to the administrative development of infocommunications, would not be held here. So I call to the attention of the Members present to try to gather information, to talk to people who are responsible for using these systems, to gather experience. This would be the duty of the Office to collect such experiences before any submission, to conduct impact studies and to try to catch up at least with the opportunities of the age, not to mention that there is knowledge about this at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, at the University of Technology, but in many other research sites about what is the path of the future, where the present is, what examples are being used within the Union. This could also be considered, in which country the opinion on the regulation of infocommunications is that it works well and is forward-looking. The EU could be dealt with in such an approach, not just as the Minister of Foreign Affairs says, that whoever's playing with us will be hit. So you could learn from the EU, you could learn from professionals, you could learn from opportunities. So whoever feels the intellectual challenge to deal with this area, and whoever gives themselves must feel it, I ask you not to stop at this law, which is a very primitive state, but to try to deal with it much more in the interests of the future and in order to improve the practice of the present, and the government to sacrifice much more in this area. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-12-14-178	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm gonna ask if there's anyone else who wants to talk to you about the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will now ask the rapporteur - Mr Secretary of State - to indicate his wish to react. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás, please.
u2015-12-14-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The bill on electronic administration and trust services is a comprehensive reform of the operation of the Hungarian state and public services. On the basis of the bill, electronic administration will be possible in a single digital space from 2017. The clear aim of the law is to make electronic administration easier to access in all areas of life, to motivate actors in procedures to use this administration, thus ensuring faster, cheaper and more efficient work. Dear House, The MSZP has indicated that it is in its view that it is constitutionally offensive that NMHH's role in the supervision of trust services and its powers are included in non-essential provisions. He also objected to the removal of the TAB modification clause and the NMHH's procedure will be governed by the decree of the Minister for e-administration. Dear House, The Fundamental Law sets out which subjects are subject to fundamental legislation, and this task is clearly not one of them, because according to the Fundamental Law, detailed rules on freedom of the press and the body supervising media services, press products and the communications market are laid down by a fundamental law, but in the present case these rules do not affect the NMHH in this function. In this case, they concern it as a service oversight authority. A number of NMHH's functions are contained in non-essential laws or government decrees, such as the current Electronic Signature Act, which does not contain any fundamental provisions, even though NMHH maintains records as an authority under this Act and has supervisory powers over services providing electronic signature services. It also does not constitute an essential provision for the provision of information society services and for unsolicited advertising through electronic communications. In the existing SEÜSZ notification procedures, a government decree designates professional time as administrative authority and is also justified by a government decree in the course of the procedure for admission to the list of judicial experts. Dear House, On the basis of a proposal from the Legislative Committee, the Act contains a uniform set of general rules for electronic administration and trust services. It is necessary that the same approach be taken in both regulatory areas, i.e. in the government, to have a minister responsible for all the implementing regulations of the law, thus conveying a uniform regulatory approach. Accordingly, the Minister responsible for e-administration is also authorised to draw up implementing regulations on trust services. The general debate also raised the objection that the proposal did not go back to the regulation before 2010. Of course, this is not the intention of the proposal, the law, as the bill continues the electronic public administration reform launched in 2011, extending its scope in a wide spectrum, ensuring that an electronic administration system that is compatible with the new concept, rather than the previous cumbersome and monolithic system, can be achieved in almost all areas of the state, while recognising individual solutions, yet capable of creating a single digital space and ensuring coherence. Dear House, To ensure the above overall social interests, i.e. that, on the basis of the bill, all Hungarian citizens can be dealt with faster, easier, cheaper and more effectively, and that Hungary's IT development remains unbroken, I would ask the House to support and vote for the single proposal. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2015-12-14-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the registration of non-suffering persons and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/7394. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor first to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/7394 on 3 December 2015. a bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the registration of non-suffrage persons, submitted to the Committee in accordance with Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the five-point amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. The amendments adopted partly ensure language positioning and compliance with the requirements for drafting legislation. In substance, as was said at the committee meeting, the bill would help those who lost their right to vote primarily because of their mental abilities. [[18.30]] The bill also states that the deceased persons, criminals, should be properly and reliably registered by the National Election Office. Dear Parliament, Please consider whether some errors could be avoided, whether some fundamental rights violations could be prevented by this bill. It is clear that the adoption of the bill would allow for a more reliable and reliable record-keeping. On this basis, I ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask the rapporteur, Madam Secretary of State, if she would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. In this case, as no rapporteur has been drawn up by the designated Judicial Committee, speeches shall follow. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Hungarian Socialist Party objects to a number of provisions of this law concerning the electoral procedural law, so it is not possible for us to take out two or three provisions and a kind of patchwork - but only these two or three withdrawn provisions - so that we can get to the adoption of the law. No! The Hungarian Socialist Party says that it is necessary to bring a coherent norm to life, in which, naturally, parliamentary parties or consensus between parliamentary parties must be born, and, if this is the case, there is obviously something to discuss. We do so with this draft law that we reject it because, as I said, we regard it as a patchwork, and on the other hand we say that we are in favour of creating a more proportionate electoral system, the background of which is to be established, and, as I said, a text from a coherent multi-party, five-party agreement should be called to life. In 2011, if you recall, a radical transformation of the electoral system was carried out by two thirds. At the time, the two-thirds did not consider it important, on the most basic issues, to discuss with the opposition, to establish consensus. In this way, I think it is very strange that they are coming up here at the end of 2015 with such a patch. If they want a correction, if they want a real correction, guarantees must be created to eliminate the possibility of abuse. You know, here we can also think about the question of voting and legitimizing the letter package, the re-registration, the dead souls that have already been raised between these thoughts. I think it is very important to provide guarantees to avoid abuses, and also - to give an example - that those residing in Hungary, but staying abroad, should be treated in the same way as Hungarians across the border. Because these people are Hungarians, they are Hungarian residents, they do work abroad, and they do not have the right to vote at the moment, as it is for Hungarians across the border to vote in a letter. But it would be worth reconsidering the system of plural recommendation and rethinking it. Or I could say, with a calm spirit, the issue of business parties. Now, in recent weeks, you can read on the medium surface that something has moved in the story, but I think that from the recommendation rules to campaign financing issues, everything should be clarified accordingly. But I would also consider it very important - and not only I, but also our party, the Hungarian Socialist Party - to rethink the electoral district boundaries so to say, to avoid, avoid or exclude political manipulation, to establish a set of rules that would give birth to an independent background based on professional bases independent of politics, which led to a multitude of virtually distorted situations in the country. But I could also say the rethinking of the fraction votes, the winning compensation, I think it's also an end to that as a rethinking basis. I could also go into details as to why the involvement of civil society organisations in the campaign or the need to re-regulation it would be important, but in the same way as regards the issue of political advertising, how and how rules should prevail in relation to publication during the campaign period. But if I had to say an important additional sentence to all of this, I would say that, as an example, I would consider it important to review the whole system of rules for the referendum. They're just examples, I could say things like that, but I thought they were kind of the most important. If the government were to show openness in these matters, the Hungarian Socialist Party - I can quote - would be prepared without any conditions to sit down and negotiate the electoral procedural law anywhere, at any time, within the framework of a five-party agreement. As long as you do not wish to move on these issues, but instead you are a type of... - I say, you want to patch up this story with two or three withdrawn provisions, we do not want to legitimise this, because we do not want to fall into the mistake of turning to 2018 and saying in 2016 and 17 what we want to do with the electoral law, because in this respect we have discussed all that we should have done at the end of 2015 and not in the year before or two years before the elections we should have dealt with these issues. No! What we want in these matters is that there is a very coherent norm in these matters, but there is agreement on the basis of five-party negotiations and consensus, rather than a set of actions based on the interests of the political authority, because this government today, which, according to my judgment, exercises political power, is called to life. Look, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, I'm still using, like, a dug hole, a ravine in this bill, this bill is 17. It can be found in Section 5 of the Act, which relates to the commitments of the National Election Office, in which it deals practically only with those who would be included in the records of their personal data. In English, this opens up space, and this gives room for legitimizing practically the votes of dead souls, because it will be impossible to catch and catch. I think that the elimination of this is also essential. But once again, if this is to be eliminated, it is far from enough to support this draft law on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, so we can support the draft law on the electoral procedure simply because of the fact that today's law is bleeding from a number of wounds, although it is not the draft law that has just been tabled, because it contains only tiny fragments, but the electoral law, which should be made subject to significant changes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-14-184	Thank you very much. I certainly don't mean to encourage you, but it's my duty to ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[For signal:]] I wish. Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2015-12-14-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, All I can say for a minute is that if you're gonna touch the electoral law, you're gonna have to look at the injustice of it all. So there can be no practice in Hungary, which you have done in the process with the electoral system. So when we read the European Union's development report and it says that the lack of the rule of law is the main cause of development risk in Hungary, think about this: the transformation of the Constitutional Court, the transformation of the legal order, the unilateral transformation of the electoral order. [[18.40]] So no one can be safe in Hungary, as long as the basic pillar of democracy, the electoral system, as you set it up, works like this. I call for a fair, proportionate system of elections reflecting political relations to be restored. Thank you.
u2015-12-14-186	Thank you. Would anyone else like to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[Water East Mariann: No.]] The secretary of state says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws relating to certain legal persons governed by public law and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. Representatives of Gergely Gulyás and Imre Vas, Fidesz, submitted T/7834. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. [[For signal:]] I gave it to him, but he didn't take over as he wasn't present. This means that the majority position of the Legislative Committee will not be presented. Mr Csaba Gyüre, on the other hand, explains the minority position in part. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A minority opinion has also been expressed on this matter. Practically all opposition parties have expressed their displeasure with this legislation. On the one hand, it was formulated by all opposition parties, who were present at least at this committee meeting, that once again an example of personal legislation is what the Fidesz-KDNP has brought here. Although it has not yet been said in the general debate, it has already been said in the debate of the Legislative Committee, Members have made it clear that this bill would be a draft solution to the current litigation of the Hungarian Olympic Committee. That is because it does not appear that the current majority of the government is taking a position in the proceedings against the MOB, so the position of the court and the position of the majority of the government are not the same. This is why such a solution is in the form of a bill, which, contrary to the judgment of the court, would, subjectively, solve this problem of the government. That was one of the things that came up. The other thing was formulated in connection with what is in the second part of the bill, since there is no problem with the first part of the bill, which is roughly a list, but in the second part, in section 14. In any event, it may already be linked to the provisions of this Article. In this regard, we have expressed the view that the adoption of this bill will cause legal uncertainty, we believe that it will make legal and legalize not only serious legal uncertainty, but also legal uncertainty, but also, at some level, lawlessness and violation. We cannot agree with this, and we also see that for certain persons it eliminates the system of redress, the possibility of recourse to judicial review, and does not allow these persons to appeal to the court in certain cases, so that they can fight their own right on the way to court. In this respect, I myself have tabled an amendment to this law, but it has been voted out both in the Judicial Committee and in the TAB, and there has been no decision in the TAB, although I even had a fidesz fellow Member who wanted to put it up as his own motion, because he agreed with the proposal that was formulated. I will talk about this during the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-14-188	Thank you very much. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vas, if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Vas Imre says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[Water East Mariann: No.]] The secretary of state says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. No two-minute comments are possible. Member of Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik. Here you go. Word follows, you always speak.
u2015-12-14-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Then I would like to continue, as I have just expressed in the minority opinion, and here again in the first place the bill 14. I would like to deal with the error in section 5 of this article. The point is that his right of search is lost and his legitimization in court is terminated by the person who will practically not be a member of the organisation, the public body from which he has resigned or has been excluded, and he would like to review his decision. So, obviously, this legislation applies to the possibility of judicial review of decisions and decisions of certain organisations. If this decision is not good for someone, the decision that this organisation has taken or may violate legislation or violate its legitimate interests, then you could ask for a judicial review. This is the place of law, the 14th. In my view, it brings legal uncertainty because it says that the legitimacy of the court to the court who has ceased to be a member of that organisation will cease. So if you cease to be a member, it could be this termination either because you are excluded from that organisation or because you are quitting for some reason, but your legitimate interest would still require that the previous decision be reviewed, then in this case I do not think that the law will settle its place in a satisfactory manner. In fact, if we read together the reasoning of the bill with the bill itself, then I think it is clear that it is possible to state clearly that, rather than doubt whether the party has a right to seek or a legitimacy in court, if he no longer becomes a member of that organisation, but, in my view, it is clear that he will not have a legitimacy in court. So you can't sue, you don't have the capacity to sue, you lose this lawsuit, and then you have a legitimate interest in reviewing your decision, whether it's a member's disbarment or a compensation order, or a different decision, in this case you won't have my view. In this respect, we had a debate, some who interpreted it differently, but even the Members of Parliament belonging to the current majority of governments acknowledged that the wording that I tabled in the amendment would be luckier and, in any case, better. I think that it is clear and very important that the legislative text should be precise, meaningful and express the legislator's intention. I very much hope that the intention of the legislators, who submitted this bill, was not to exclude from the legal claim option those members of the association or members of the public body who were excluded from it, who were not able to enforce their claim. Obviously, consistent legal certainty, the enforcement of our rights and the enforcement of our rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law require the party to have legitimacy in court in all cases, in these cases as well. The Fundamental Law clearly regulates the right of citizens to appeal. I think that if we take away the possibility of redress here, even the Fundamental Law may be violated by this 14. §. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-14-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. [[18.50]] I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vas, if he wishes to speak. [[On Dr. Vas Imre's signal:]] Here you go.
u2015-12-14-191	Yes, thank you very much, I would like to respond to Csaba Gyure. Indeed, we have had a long debate about my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre's amendment. We believe that what he has submitted can be accepted in the same way, but it is unnecessary, because he wants to allow the member to sue for the exclusion of the member. Of course, the authors do not intend that he should not sue, only in our view, after the refusal decision contains a provision on the member, so he can, of course, sue for this rule. So it's not like anyone's gonna want to rule that out, anyway. It's a different question when you quit. If someone resigned from an association, he may sue afterwards if a decision is taken later, when he is no longer a member, but I find it difficult to imagine, by the way, that, after someone has quit, an association would make a decision on him, if only not that he owed a member fee or anything, but there he will be the defendant, so in that case, he can obviously enforce his rights as a defendant. No other amendments have been tabled. I would ask my fellow Members to support the original text of the bill, together with the contents of the summary amendment tabled by the TAB. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-14-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. T/7309 submitted by Congressman Gyula Vantara, Fidesz and his fellow Members. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor once again to Congressman Vas Imre, now as rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed on 10 December 2015 the CCVI of 2011 on freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities. T/7409 on the amendment of Act T/7409 and related laws The Committee presented 23 amendments and a summary report summing up 23 yes, 2 no and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment only contains the TAB's own amendment proposal after the committee's proposal has been clarified. This clarification declares the independence of the churches, their local government on a guarantee basis. The amending proposal, having regard to Article VII of the Fundamental Law, Article 4 (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which states that religious communities involved in cooperation with the State act as an established church, also clarifies that the provision establishing the established church quality provides for the possibility of concluding a comprehensive cooperation agreement for all religious communities with legal personality and thus ensures that the church quality resulting from the Fundamental Law is obtained. In view of this, the majority of the TAB's representatives propose that the Parliament adopt the bill together with the TAB's summarised amendments. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-14-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[On Dr. Vas Imre's signal:]] The rapporteur does not wish to speak now. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, and a two-minute comment is not possible. I'll see if anyone wants to tell me. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say very briefly that our main problem with this legislation is that for us it should be an organization or no church, not a quantitative issue, but for Jobbik it should be a quality issue, and for others it should be a quality issue. Here it is very difficult to quantify that exactly this number is 1 percent of hers and the others, so they give you that someone can be a recognized church or not; this is very strange. So there are also signs of progress in this law, but we still cannot agree with this part of the legislation, and we believe that this should be resolved in a different way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-14-196	Thank you very much. I'll ask you again if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is now closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[On Dr. Vas Imre's signal:]] Congressman Vas Imre, here you go.
u2015-12-14-197	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members to support the submitted bill, together with the summation proposal of the Legislative Committee, in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-198	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCVI on national assets follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/7389 submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr László Vécsey, the majority rapporteur of the committee [[Dr. Vas Imre: TAB seat!]] who's not in the room at the moment. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak. [[Varga Simeon: At the end!]] Mr. Varga Simeon, a nationalist advocate, will at the end mark. On behalf of the government, Madam Secretary, would you like to speak? [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] But not the Secretary of State, but the Secretary of State would like to speak. There were two of them in the room, and I watched which one of them. Secretary Major, please.
u2015-12-14-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government agrees with the bill of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, and we support the initiative to restore the existing trust rights of national authorities. We do this in order to expand, strengthen the institutional base that is essential for the performance of the educational, educational and other cultural public tasks of the Hungarian nationalities and to eliminate the currently unjustified distinction between the management position of local and national authorities. The government also supports the adoption of the amendment proposal submitted to the bill by the Parliament's Legislative Committee, and the bill is fully in line with the general objectives of the government in relation to nationalities and minority self-governments. The amendment allows property management for educational, educational and cultural institutions maintained by national authorities to be transferred to property management and the renewal of property management contracts concluded before 2012. Dear Parliament, In view of its general objective beyond daily political issues, the bill deserves the support of all parliamentary parties with a view to the fate and prosperity of nationalities in Hungary. [[19.00]] This is confirmed by the fact that no objections were raised from any political group during the general debate or from the Commission, and the adoption of the bill was unanimously supported by the representatives and parties involved in the debate. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the summary amendment and the bill. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2015-12-14-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. No two-minute comments are possible. First, Congressman Attila Szabolcs, Fidesz, please.
u2015-12-14-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. We have before us an amendment to the Act, a general debate which took place on 18 November, and then a detailed debate was held and concluded at the Economic Committee's meeting on 24 November. The amendment of the law is necessary in order for the institutions of the national authorities, their associations and national authorities to be defined as public bodies, as possible trustees of national assets. No individual amendments have been tabled. The Committee did not make any amendments either. Only the Legislative Committee has tabled a summary amendment, which is essentially aimed at achieving consistency with the Fundamental Law. I would ask my fellow Members to support this fundamentally technical amendment from both the pro-government and the opposition side. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-202	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I now give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian nationalist advocate, from the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-203	Thank you, Mr. President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The clear breakthrough in the life of nationalities living in Hungary, the substantial positive shift, was when we were assured of our parliamentary representation, so we have the opportunity to express our opinion, and as the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, we can exercise our rights. The bill before this House is already tabled by our committee as an independent motion. The definition of national assets has set out the objective of ensuring that the principle of the division of public tasks by the State and the municipalities is respected, and the primary purpose of the national assets should therefore be to ensure that public tasks are performed. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the proposed amendment is to ensure that the institutions of the national authorities, their associations and national authorities, in view of the fact that they have a public service mission, are defined in this law as possible trustees of national assets, thus eliminating a regulatory deficiency. I would like to thank the Government and the factions for their agreement and support, and at the same time ask for their vote to support it by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, T/7389. a proposal for an amendment to the law. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-204	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment to certain road and rail transport legislation and consumer protection legislation and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/7401. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 10 December 2015 the T/7401 on the amendment of certain road and rail transport and consumer protection laws. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains 15 out of the 18-point proposal of the Economic Committee, so that is what the Legislative Committee has supported. In addition, the Legislative Committee has largely submitted a proposal for a legislative amendment, which is partly an amendment to the content, obviously combined with proposals submitted by the Economic Commission, supported by the Legislative Committee. The bill wide-rangingly regulates Act I on Road Transport, amends the Rail Transport Act on several points, and also amends consumer protection laws. The majority of the committee's members of the government support the adoption of the bill, in addition to the adoption of the bill and the adoption of a summary proposal submitted by the Legislative Committee. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State János Fónagy, please.
u2015-12-14-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you contains amendments to several laws on transport and consumer protection. In relation to the parts concerning the provisions of the Road Transport Act, the committees negotiating the proposal made a number of proposals for substantive amendments and, in part, for clarification of the text of the norm. The summarised amendment initiates changes to preserve the competitiveness of Hungarian companies involved in the carriage of goods by road. To this end, a number of authorities will be entitled to monitor compliance with the rules, which will also be given more effective powers of action in order to perform their tasks effectively. The summary amending proposal clarifies the rules of the various signs and devices that can be placed alongside the roads and sets differentiated rules in view of their intended purpose. The main objective of the amendment on unauthorized public parking is to reduce, on the regulatory side, the possibility of measures leading to additional costs for the population, subject to the government's commitment to bureaucracy and cost reduction. The proposal clarifies the rules for the periodic technical inspection of vehicles, making it clear that, in the case of passenger cars, the cessation of the periodical technical examination of government offices should not result in an increase in test fees. Dear Parliament, The summarised amendment presented above is in line with the government's position and intention. In view of all this, I would ask you to support the summarised amendment proposal and the whole bill. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2015-12-14-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches. No two-minute comments are possible. I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. It is my duty to ask the author if he wishes to speak, but since no one told me afterwards, I suggest that he not respond to himself because he told me everything. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, So I'm going to announce to you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.10]] Honourable Parliament! I need to inform you of these things. A consolidated debate on some claims resolution measures to strengthen the stability of the capital market would follow, but the Legislative Committee is still in session on this issue, so I have to take a 30-minute negotiating break. If you finish your work earlier, I will, of course, ring this bell to the Honourable Parliament, but I am now ordering a trial break for the aforementioned period. [[Break: 19.11 20.00President: Dr. István HillerJournalist: Nándor Gúr]]
u2015-12-14-209	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A consolidated debate on certain claims resolution measures to strengthen the stability of the capital market follows. The government referral is T-8157. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 20 minutes for opening and closing proceedings, 10 minutes for speaking by the Legislative Committee, 5 minutes for presenting the minority opinion, 15-15 minutes for speaking by the political groups and 4 minutes for speaking by independent Members. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to give the floor to the rapporteur on the agenda, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-12-14-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Government will submit to Parliament a bill on new claims settlement, after some of the provisions of the former Act on General Compensation for Quaestor Damages, adopted in April of this year, have been annulled by the Constitutional Court. The government is committed to achieving the compensation of victims of broker scandals who have suffered the most damage, since their bonds have no market value. The Government's aim is to be able to establish, within the framework set by the Constitutional Court, the best possible compensation arrangements for victims, in parallel with efforts to restore confidence in the financial markets. Some abuses that have been taking place for decades, and their new effective detection in the powers acquired by the Hungarian National Bank, drew attention to investment services. As a further step, the government has put forward a complex proposal for a solution to avoid similar abuses in the future in order to increase transparency and control of the financial system. LXXXV 2015 amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. Act adopted by the Parliament on 23 June 2015 dealt comprehensively with shortcomings in the capital market sector, both by ensuring greater transparency and control. Following the entry into force of the Act, the revised financial market regulation will be able to prevent similar abuse by investment service providers. However, future measures cannot remedy the damage caused by past abuses in the capital market sector, and it is difficult to restore previous confidence in the capital market sector and, therefore, legislation dealing with abuses, closing the past, providing justice is needed. The government therefore proposes that, in the context of the broker scandals discovered by the Hungarian National Bank in 2015, the group that suffered the greatest losses should be highlighted, in addition to measures to ensure the transparency of the capital market sector by legislation for the future, among the victims of the scandals, and that the legislator should provide this group with an opportunity to compensate. When assessing the activities of investment service providers and the damage they cause, it can be concluded that the investment service providers... [[The Secretary of State's microphone falls off.]] Excuse me. [[The Secretary of State will reinstate his microphone.]] Therefore, the Government proposes to grant compensation to those injured in the context of brokerage scandals in 2015. When assessing the activities of investment service providers and the damage they cause, it can be concluded that the damage caused by investment service providers is the most significant where the bond issued by the related undertaking of investment service providers was sold, since the bonds issued by the related undertaking, whether or not the bond is actually available, do not have any real market value. The bond issue was used to finance the group of companies, but the return guaranteed by the issuer was not a real non-economic activity. The investment service provider used its investment services to sell these bonds, deceiving investors who invested their money in the capacity of regulated market participants, relying on the prosperity of the group. In addition, claim enforcement for these victims is extremely complex and cumbersome, since the investors' money was used and lived up to it in the course of the operation of the group of companies, so the claim cannot be simply enforced against the issuer or the broker, since the amount invested must be found within the group of companies. By taking over the claims, the Fund also focuses on claims enforcement and uses all means with its professionally prepared apparatus to enforce claims. The government is therefore committed to helping this group of victims, as they have suffered the greatest damage to the series of abuses. In order to partially compensate for the damage, the Board of Directors of the Investor Protection Fund decided in April 2015 that Quaestor Securities Ltd. Fictitious bonds, i.e. non-existing bonds, registered as bonds, should be covered by the obligation to compensate Beva. Since then, the legislator has raised the obligation to indemnify fictitious bonds to a legal level. As a result, investors have already obtained some of these investments from Bea after their fictitious bonds. This bill regulates the part of the compensation of victims in addition to the compensation of Beva. The bill takes full account of the requirements laid down by the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, the bill no longer aims at the compensation of the victims of Quaestor, but provides for compensation for the most sensitive group of victims. Who are eligible to settle claims? In the first half of 2015, the Hungarian National Bank, acting under its new powers, revealed these decades of abuse by investment service providers, which should be the subject of this regulation. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the scope of the right to compensation may be determined on the basis of homogeneous grouping criteria. This bill provides for the possibility of settlement of claims for victims who were related to investment firms which, taking advantage of the broker's character, the status of regulated market players, have caused damage to investors by the member of the group, i.e. by an obligation of his own, thereby impairing public confidence vis-à-vis the financial sector. The legislator does not wish to take on the issuer's risk, as it exists under normal capital market conditions, but only on a case-by-case basis to assist victims of investment service providers who have abused their brokeric nature and thus provided their capital-linked undertakings. The present equity benefit offers investors a one-off opportunity to compensate for their losses. The aim should not be to take over market risk from the investor, and it is only necessary to provide, in addition to the normal investor risk, for investors who have been abused by the investment service provider, by abusing their regulated market nature and by the recognition associated with the group of companies. The bill also proposes that victims who have been misled by the dependent agent of the investment firm cannot prove their entitlement by means of a securities account, and that the compensation of Beva does not extend to them, and should not be excluded from the settlement of claims, they may be judged by a court. Regrettably, speculators have been trying to make profits over the past period by approaching these victims and promising to buy their demands from them. The government is determined not to support the speculators, but to compensate the original victims. [[20.10]] The bill therefore states that the claim for compensation can be enforced by the rightholder himself. By doing so, the bill precludes the compensation of speculators from taking place. As I have just emphasised, the legislator does not wish to assume the obligation of the issuer and the investment firm to take over the claims settlement, but only on a case-by-case basis, to assist victims who have become victims of investment service providers who have abused the broker's character and have contributed capital to their affiliated undertakings. By giving effect to this principle, the claim of the person entitled to settle claims shall be subject to deductions when determining the consideration payable in the course of the settlement of claims. In determining the consideration, the realised return shall be deducted by enforcing the prohibition of compensation. In addition, the right to settle claims must also take on a kind of striped part of itself, which in fact represents the investment risk in calculating the consideration. The Constitutional Court drew the legislator's attention to the concerns in the Quaestor Act about the regulation that extended the liability for claims to returns. The government wants to make a fair settlement. In the settlement of claims, he does not want to take over the location of the investment firm, but he wants to alleviate the damage to investors who have received worthless bonds in exchange for their money. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court did not affect the upper limit for the settlement of claims in its decision, the bill again uses the HUF 30 million ceiling as the upper limit for the settlement of claims. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank's investigations revealed that the return credited to investors was not derived from a real economic activity, and could be interpreted as a return on capital. It is therefore appropriate to take these credits into account when determining the consideration. In view of the need to strike a balance between the amount payable to the victims, the payment of the Beva members and the deduction of the payments from the tax, it cannot be justified that the return not actually produced by the issuer should be paid by the fund to the investors. After deduction of the return, the injured persons do not have to take a share of the balance after not more than HUF 3 million. The limit of HUF 3 million was determined taking into account the average annual earnings, which is expected to result in the payment of around 17 thousand people free of charge. Over HUF 3 million, 11 percent is deducted. The application of the 11 per cent share gives investors an amount similar to the Beva compensation. The use of the banded part clearly helps small investors, as there are people who have invested the results of their life's work in a reputable investment firm and all their savings are lost. The government therefore proposes that the amount corresponding to the average earnings per year, i.e. 3 million forints, should not have to take part in the settlement of claims, so that more than half of the Quaestor victims can obtain the compensation provided by the Compensation Fund free of self-sharing. Claims claims shall be lodged by 15 February 2016. Since Quaestor victims are also covered by the new Compensation Act, they do not need to submit their application again. However, the bill also takes into account the fact that the Quaestor victims are entitled to a reduced amount of consideration under the bill compared to the remuneration rule contained in the Quaestor Act, which the Constitutional Court considers to be of concern, so that those entitled to compensation have the possibility to withdraw the claim submitted to the fund or deemed to have been submitted by the law and to enforce their claim in liquidation proceedings and other claims proceedings. In the application, the creditor for the settlement of claims shall declare as narrow as possible his outstanding claim and the data required to establish the consideration - the amount of bonds, the return - shall be obtained from the investment service provider by the fund. The Fund can provide the amount to be paid to the victims by borrowing. The bill states that the fund will take out a bridging loan from the Hungarian National Bank in order to fulfil its legal obligations, for which the fund may issue a bond or borrow a bond once for a maximum maturity of 12 years. The restoration of confidence in the securities market and thus, in a broader sense, the entire financial market is primarily in the interest of the investor market, and it is therefore appropriate to define the members of Beva as the debtor of the claims payments requested by the Fund. The payment of the Beva members shall cover the repayment of the annual debt service of a loan or bond issued with a maturity of 10 to 12 years. The payments were made taking account of proportionality in the proposal. The bill sets out the obligation to pay the members of Beva in order to meet the requirements of legal certainty, predictability and planning: the due date of the payment obligation, the frequency, the duration and the extent of the payment. The bill establishes the repayment of his payment to the Member of the Beva by allowing the member and his associated undertaking to recover the amount corresponding to the payment made and the interest on a specified part of the payment made from the central budget. In addition, the Fund's revenue is the amount received during the claim enforcement. To sum up, this bill reflects the government's intention to mitigate the damage suffered by the largest group of brokers' scandals. The Government will propose to the legislator, within the constitutional framework, in order to provide compensation to investors. In view of all this, I recommend that the bill be taken to the attention of my fellow Members, and I ask for your support for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-14-211	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have 4 minutes and 40 seconds to say the closing word. I salute my fellow Members. The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. A total of 10 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, After a long debate this evening at the Legislative Committee, which does not reflect the outcome, it supported the summation amendment of the bill by 27 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and zero votes in favour, so the future bill received unvoted support in the Legislative Committee. I am saying that this result does not necessarily show the length of the debate, because basically there has been a long debate on the amendments made by opposition representatives. However, I think that my job is not to criticise the opposition's amendments, but to highlight the most important elements of the bill supported by a majority of the committee. I believe that the presentations of the minority position will present the opposition's amendments. Dear House, I would like to raise the reasons why the bill was so largely supported by the committee. Firstly, we must now adopt amendments in relation to the original bill revised by the Constitutional Court, which makes the law that has not entered into force not only legal or constitutional, but also, in our conviction, fairer. The reasons for the bill also refer to the decision of the Constitutional Court, some of which are presented because not only the bill is based on these constitutional aspects or the principles of the Constitutional Court, but I think it is worth considering these aspects in the long term. I would like to state, as stated in the explanatory statement of the bill, that the legislative exercise is essentially fair to those entitled to compensation, because, of course, the only and exclusive way of settling damages would not be for the Parliament to create a special law for the Quaestor victims. So the Parliament is exercising fairness. The Constitutional Court defines this as a positive discrimination against a group of victims by the legislator and the legislator. So when we talk about what law the Parliament is making, let us finally start by saying that this is a fair and positive compensation based on discrimination. [[20.20]] Compared to this, it is worth discussing what amounts are taken into account by legislation and what costs are written down in the settlement of claims or what costs are charged in the settlement of claims. The sentence of the Constitutional Court which provides for a ban on compensation for this law is very important. The Constitutional Court says - that I should very much simplify the legal concept of non-reimbursement - that it is not possible for an injured party to be in a better position by settling his compensation in law, but only in a situation which would otherwise result in him in an action for damages or in a claim for damages. So you can't get in a better position, you can't realize incomes here that don't belong to the injured anyway. Therefore, the current version of the Act, which is submitted by the Ministry of Justice, requires the accounts to be settled, so customers must account for the amount of compensation or, more precisely, the amount of compensation they have already received for their investments as income. I don't want to take too long, because in five minutes, even the minority opinion can be delivered. Dear House, Therefore, the Legislative Committee supported by a large majority this Fair, Positive Discrimination Compensation Act, which resolves the settlement of damages for the vast majority of Quaestor victims. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-213	Thank you very much to Róbert Répássy, Vice President of the Legislative Committee. I now give the floor for the presentation of the minority opinion to Mr Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-12-14-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there has been a lengthy debate before the Legislative Committee on our proposed amendments, and it has often not ignored personalisation, unfortunately, but I am not going to discuss this in any particular way, in just a few sentences. We have deepened the issue of why the Hungarian Socialist Party is so protective of the Quaestor victims. He may even have been accused of having some sort of socialist connection. Even though we know the Quaestor victims, and that's not the case. The second is that the background institution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has placed HUF 4 billion at the fraudulent brokerage company, municipalities, the municipality of Győr, the municipality of Újpest have placed billions, and even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has placed the entire portfolio of Eximbank, tens of billions of HUF in this fraudulent brokerage company. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: At your place.]] We've had a bit of a lamentation about that. Then it came up that there's a VIP list that the investigating authority hasn't released to this day, and we don't know that either. So here it is worth pointing out the professional aspect. Our amendments, a total of three, two were tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Cook, and he will give the reasons for this in his speech, and I would like to present one of the amendments that I have tabled. The first and most important thing is that, regardless of the fact that Parliament and the governing party apply positive discrimination, we still disagree with the fact that investors in a series of brokerage frauds are not entitled to compensation from other entities. These are Buda-Cash-damaged clients who are not subject to this law. One of our amendments concerns this, so that they can be covered by this positive discrimination, and there are thousands of victims, with tens of billions of forints. Our other amendment concerns clients who are contracting with Quaestor Financial Consulting Ltd., almost 500 customers. Mr Secretary of State said this in the debate, but I would like this to be the case in plenary, so that the intention of the legislator is completely clear. This provision, the provision on the scope of the law, states that it applies to the entities where the winding-up proceedings were finalized before 1 January 2015 at the time of this year. We know that the registration process at Quaestor Financial Consultant Zrt. started on 12 December, but no final liquidation has yet been registered. So nearly 500 victims' damages could be compromised here. Mr. Secretary of State assured me that this law does not apply, because as an agent, Quaestor Financial Consultant Zrt. has acted, so this company does not have to be in liquidation, but it has to be proved in court, and within 30 days of the court's decision, this claim can be submitted to the fund, and the fund will reimburse it. I really hope that's how it's gonna be. The third and perhaps most important part of our amendment proposal is that we do not agree with the fact that, ultimately, the taxpayers will be able to pay this amount of compensation, because now the banks will advance, even take credit from the Hungarian National Bank, but they will be able to write down this investment in the form of a tax reduction. So, in the end, this amount of damage will be paid from the budget from all taxpayers' money. While there is the National Bank of Hungary, which, even now, we claim, has failed in administrative power. He therefore owes compensation because he has failed to carry out the supervision procedure with regard to Quaestor, since he was at the bond issue, the foundation of Quaestor Bank, and he has not noticed that HUF 220 billion has disappeared from Quaestor in recent years, since 2013, not in the last 15 years, but in the last two years. In fact, fictitious bonds disappeared in even less time. Yes, we agree that we should find the 150 billion forints that the investigating authority still doesn't know where it is. It's also interesting that they didn't find this money in a year. But the Hungarian National Bank should not buy luxury estates, paintings, give the wife of the Attorney General a salary of five million, but pay the Quaestor victims. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-215	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 15-15 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 4 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, Fidesz.
u2015-12-14-216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, People in my constituency, Győr, may have been more affected by the so-called Quaestor scandal or its negative effects, as the group of companies has been active in the Győr region for more than a decade. The company's downfall, beyond the damage to individuals, has even pulled the first-class football team with him, currently playing in the third class, but of course their goal is to get back to the first class of the championship. I'd like to make a little clarification here, though. The City of Győr County and the state offices did not place money at Quaestor, but bought government bonds, and the Mayor of Győr announced just last Friday that the city's municipality received the remuneration with interest - this is HUF 1 billion 40 million in the case of Győr. As a Győr representative, I therefore feel it is important that the T/8157 that we have just discussed is also heard the signs of the victims. I would like to comment on the bill. Before I go to the provisions of the bill, I would like to say briefly, in a sentence, about the history of the legislative process. Because the fact is that all the gross irregularities recently discovered by the Hungarian National Bank started in the period of previous government, and their settlement, like many other debts, falls on the current government. The abuse of the past period has thus focused attention on investment services and their legal environment. LXXXV 2015 amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system. Act adopted by Parliament on 23 June 2015 dealt comprehensively with shortcomings in the capital market sector for the future. [[20.30]] However, future measures cannot remedy the damage previously caused by abuses in the capital market sector. In addition, it is difficult to restore previous confidence in the capital market sector. This trust can only be restored by a specific measure, in addition to legislative tasks. Since André Kostolany we know: the more likely the promises are, the greater the number of followers. However, in order to restore confidence in the financial sector and to interpret the principle of fairness as widely as possible, the government decided to compensate the victims of brokerage scandals. Therefore, already in the summer we created the Quaster Compensation Act, which provided general compensation and allowed compensation to be made for small investors below HUF 6 million. However, the banks challenged this law in the Constitutional Court and achieved their purpose in part, since they stopped the process of compensation. The Government, taking note of the decision of the Constitutional Court, submitted on 9 December the so-called new Quaestor Act, which, in my view, can make the situation of the victims even more reassuring. The Constitutional Court has pointed out that, in order to mitigate the risks arising from the legal or illegal operation of the financial institution system, the State may establish a specific institutional system in which the legislator has a wide discretion in determining the circle of beneficiaries. However, it is only a limit that the right to compensation cannot be determined in an arbitrary manner, since the parties have no right to compensation, the establishment and regulation of the institution system of compensation is a fair solution, i.e. an ex-gratia-type solution. In view of what has been said, this bill provides as a homogeneous group the possibility of resolving claims for victims who have been in contact with investment firms which, taking advantage of the broker's character and the status of regulated market players, have caused damage to investors by a member of the group, i.e. by an obligation of their own, thereby impairing public confidence in the financial sector. I would add that the damage caused by investment service providers is the most significant one where the bond issued by the related company of the investment service provider was sold, as investment service providers used their investment service provider quality to sell these bonds, misleading investors who invested their money in the capacity of regulated market participants in trusting the prosperity of the group. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, with the correction quoted, the range of companies will be extended. This way, victims with Hungaria securities can get their money. However, there are cases where the legislation deliberately excludes the possibility of compensation. The bill states that the claim for compensation can be enforced by the rightholder himself. Therefore, claims are not eligible either for claims against Quaestor's claims against the Quaestor Fund or for the purchase of Hungaria bonds in the hope that their claims can be enforced with a significant profit vis-à-vis the Fund or the State. There are situations where speculation is particularly lacking, and this is a situation. The bill also excludes the possibility for those entitled to claim claims with a claim of more than HUF 30 million to dismember their claim in the hope that they will be able to avoid the maximum amount of HUF 30 million included in the bill. At the same time, I would like to stress that the draft legislation before us also proposes that victims who cannot prove their eligibility with a securities account should not be excluded from the settlement of claims, so that a court ruling can determine their entitlement to settlement of claims. Under this provision, Quaestor Financial Consultant Ltd. its clients may also obtain a legitimate claim. In the course of the hearing of the bill, reference should also be made to the part of the Constitutional Court's decision which states that it is of concern that the compensation of victims is made by disregarding the benefits previously realised. In view of this, the proposed legislation, which has just been submitted, deducts the realised return by enforcing the prohibition of compensation for consideration. In addition, the right to settle claims must also take on a kind of striped part of itself, which in fact represents the investment risk in calculating the consideration. This rate is zero per cent up to HUF 3 million and 11 per cent above. In practice, this means that 17,000 of the 32,000 victims do not have to pay their share. I would add that the rightholder's claim also has to be deducted from the Beva compensation, so that the upper limit of the compensation will be 30 million forints, together with the Beva compensation. The bill also sets the time limit for examining the application, which is 45 days after the expiry of the deadline for submitting the application. If the Fund finds that the applicant fulfils the conditions for settlement of claims, it shall calculate the amount of compensation payable to the claimant for the settlement of claims on the basis of the bill. The fund shall notify the rightholder of the settlement of claims of the existence of entitlement to settlement of claims and of the amount of the consideration payable in the settlement of the damage. Within 30 days of receipt of the notification, the claimant may withdraw his application if he considers that the consideration payable in the settlement of claims is inadequate and prefers to enforce his claim in winding-up proceedings and other claims proceedings. The Fund shall pay the consideration to the account provided by the holder within 30 days of the expiry of the period for withdrawal of the application. Finally, I would like to talk about the management and organisation of the new fund. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment referred to above, found, in relation to the obligation to advance the Beva members, that they were inexactly defined in the law and that the legislator did not provide sufficient preparation time for the Beva members. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court, in the course of the management of the fund, an own resource is available from the MNB, a loan from a credit institution, a bond issue and the annual payment of the Beva members. The payments were made taking account of proportionality in the proposal. The bill sets out the obligation to pay the members of Beva in order to comply with the requirement of legal certainty: the due date of the payment obligation, the frequency, the duration and the extent of the payment. The bill also provides for the fund's organisation and legal status. The Board of Directors of the Fund shall be entrusted to the Board of Directors of Beva. The Fund does not have an independent work organisation and the operational tasks are carried out by the OBA's working organisation. Contrary to the Fund's Quaestor Damage Fund, there is no audit committee, and the audit of the management is carried out by the State Audit Office. In addition to the smooth payment of the compensations, the fund's cost-effective operation was therefore also a factor in setting up it. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Bern Law Association used to say, the right must be dominated by fairness. For this reason, the proposal intends to grant compensation on a one-off basis based on fairness, and this can happen quickly and in a predictable manner on the basis of the legislation before us. As the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction, I request your support. Thank you for giving me the honor of your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-217	Thank you, Congressman Simon. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-12-14-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I cannot even say here that the opposition sees the picture more nuancedly, and we see this picture in a completely different way, I think. First, let us talk about how and why and why this legislation came before us now. [[20.40]] On March 9th, the Quaestor Group collapsed, and it just fell apart. We sat together at the Committee on Economic Affairs and listened to it, and László Windisch's voice was grey, not only his face, but we are here on 14 December, this evening, the last day that this law was able to be brought before Parliament, by asking for urgency from the parties of government and from house rules, a special procedure to do so this year. How much time you've had since 9 March to do this year, you can safely calculate who has a Gregory calendar in his hand, but I would like to add one more thing to it. However, we all know that at the House Committee meeting last week, this debate was supposed to come in tomorrow morning, when news of it could be heard, and then at the Fidesz Congress, the Prime Minister made a much greater announcement, obviously, where the government would have reduced VAT, and therefore this debate was moved from the light of day to the night. I think we've gotten used to this kind of cynicism from all of you. Yes, we have been through a debate in the Legislative Committee, where, unfortunately, the same parallel worlds, side by side narrative, which has been in this story. You spoke much more decisively, characterably and harshly in the spring. Then you called this a crime of the century, which is now - how should I put it? - you have been refined in this wording; you are still the saviors of the victims, and let us not forget that, in your philosophy, this law is almost, not nearly, completely, but in many ways contradicts the law, but you are the only ones who put it here. At the time, they were very much in agreement that everyone could receive the amount of compensation in an increased amount, according to the rules, not only selected few, such as, say, the municipality of the town of Győr County or the municipality of Újpest, who, of course, received the return, and thanks to God, managed to find a law after a long struggle that could otherwise be paid; it seems that in 2007, this legislation was not entirely wrong, it wasn't all the legislation that was born then. I have tabled two amendments. One of the amendments would be to rewrite 1 January 2008 in this Act to 22 April 2015. I have legal reasons here, and, of course, I have political reasons. I'd like to start with the legal justification. When Mr Secretary of State or my fellow Member Répássy talks about the fact that the Constitutional Court has imposed a ban on compensation, I believe that the ban on compensation does not have to be presented to us lawyers, and we know exactly what it is, and in the Hungarian legal order this is something that can be interpreted quite well. When we talk about damages, we are not talking about running back to the beginning of time, Mr. Secretary, because that's what this first bond was sold, because that's what this 1 January 2008 was used to do when the first bond was sold, and then we're freeing people who either took out the return or not. And in the course of implementation, I wish you all the best of luck that you will be able to interpret the rules you have created during the negotiations with the Quaestor-harmed foundation, what about the contracts that you have renegotiated, what about the contract that you've taken out of the Quaestor more than the interest you've credited him - he will be a contributor? Or if there's less left in there than the interest is credited, they're gonna sue him now, and then he's gonna have to pay? There is no provision for this rule, Mr Secretary of State, and I believe that the 22 April 2015 as the date of the winding-up proceedings, I believe that it is a much more manageable, much more tangible time in law, and that is why I have asked for it, which is why I am asking this House to adopt this amendment. Don't create an unenforceable, fundamentally inoperable number of data rule that is being presented here either once again with the knowledge that they do not want to comply with it, or if it is a little bit better, they want to follow it to some extent, so that means they are willing to advance 60 to 65 billion out of that 150 billion missing. I would like to say one more thing here, which further supports my argument as to why April 22nd. On 10 March, the Hungarian National Bank suspended the operation of this company as a body for the public oversight of financial institutions. So on 9 March, money could still be brought in here, not on 1 January 2008, even then, but on 9 March 2015 money could still be brought in here. Once again, it could be taken out by the privileged few, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, without further ado, on 9 March, in a slightly adventurous way, but in today's Hungarian public life, it almost doesn't seem to anyone, which almost everyone goes under their feet to receive cash or securities on the other hand. The investigating authority will figure that out, I'm pretty sure, but on March 9th, you could still withdraw money, so this company was still working. If you hadn't been suspended then, and the winding-up procedure, let's say, didn't start on 22 April, this company would have had to pay returns until that moment. You have collected the tax and will collect it by 22 April, and you will also collect the eho, Mr Secretary, the budget will collect its own revenue. It will not correct anything in any given world, and you will not try to get the customers what they really deserve after what they have justly received. You've determined your own share. Secretary of State, I'm sure the 11 percent share will blame you on a much more responsible investor behaviour - how should I put it? I'm pretty sure of that. I apologize for the little joke or maybe sarcasm, but these two things point to one thing, and the power vector shows here: you created the law backwards, you looked at how much money there was, and then you made a rule system that was enough by the rules. They sewed the coat to the button, because we're paying for that kind of money, and we're gonna make a law like that before Christmas. Those who do not agree will find out that we - we read their announcement last week - and will bring such legislation before Christmas quickly, but in two days, no one will be able to prepare for this! Now, we're gonna get this out of here fast, and then everybody just shut up. This is the purpose of this legislation, and it has no other purpose, I believe, because if there were any other purpose for it, then you would not say that it is essential to see the fairness of the legislation here; it is not said that it is grace that we are practicing here. If it were mercy to exercise fairness and to know the legal system in which we were taught that the law is an alloy of justice and fairness, the art of legal law, then you would not do what my second amendment is about, while all the money is now being transferred to all the victims, but then these victims will be given one by one to all their further demands. They are given up on the right that, if you have not received all your money by accident, you will receive at least 11 percent less, even if you have had little money in there and you will receive at least as much less money as you have paid taxes, you will not give this company the opportunity, and you will even take away the opportunity to receive legal satisfaction at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time, at any time; even for the civil rights claim in criminal proceedings, it is the fund you have created that you claim. I find that infinitely unfair. [[20.50]] On the one hand, it is inconsistent because the Beva Act provides otherwise. On the other hand, I think that it also contradicts a healthy sense of law and the unity of the legal system, especially those statements that we have heard from you from March to June, because they have already exited from this huge saving role, that this is a matter of honor, a moral and moral obligation. Mr Secretary, if someone, let's say, was inside - and I'm giving you a direct example - in April of 2015, their money has been 7 years, then let's say that less than 6 percent of interest is not highly recommended by Quaestor; I can't count interest in my head, because I'm only a lawyer, but if I multiply it quickly, that's 42 percent. That adds 11 percent of you, 53 percent. That's how much less you'll get. But I'll give you another rate. If you're based on this 53 percent, we're making 150 billion forints now, and you're promising 60. I still think that 53 percent is coming out. You've calculated this. It's been calculated in an infinite cynical way, that's all there is to it, so let's sew a system of rules that doesn't necessarily have to pay for everything. The demands will then be recovered by us, of course, by the organisations that we are creating here, in the structure that my fellow Member has said nicely, which is prescribed by the law, and then everyone accepts that this is so. I think that is why I had to present these two proposals. One of them makes it manageable, especially legal. Damage does not mean that it is necessary to restore the original state immediately in integram restitution. It doesn't mean that if you had to pretend it was January 1, 2008, or at any time, the customers went into Quaestor's office. I understand that if you want to rule out those profiteers who would now factor in these demands, I understand. Then you should have written that down, Mr. Secretary, because now you're ruling out the rightholder. No, don't rule out the rightholder. The rightholder can now choose between going into a black room, where in two or three weeks you will turn on the light and tell him how much it is - either you choose this or you choose to sue. This is your second chance to sue, and then in an endless intricate case, maybe someday you'll get what he deserves. Mr State Secretary, this is the fairness that I think Hungarian public life is holding today. They'd rather not be fair, they'd just follow the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-14-219	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2015-12-14-220	Mr President, Dear House, We are in a strange situation that we are once again talking about a matter beyond party political interests, and I must admit that I can almost identify with the opinion of opposition fellow Members before me, including some of their comments and criticisms. I would add, however, that I am very pleased that the government has put a bill that can be voted on the table after such a rumble. Although I would add that if the Constitutional Court's decision did not want to influence this, the government would not put this amazing package before us now, because it may be that half of the victims here are better off than zero, or, let us say, less wrong, but do not think that this package of solutions would be fair, because it is very narrow in the circle of people who are completely compensated and who lose the right or take away the right from those who cannot be fully compensated so that they can claim in the future what is otherwise due to them. It can therefore be said that the justification itself, according to which the Hungarian National Bank, acting under its new powers, has also revealed various abuses after the adoption of the law, which should also be the subject of regulation, but this is not the case for Buda-Cash and Hungária, since the majority of maladministration was discovered when the basic proposal and package was placed on the table. We also need to see that there are amazing restrictions in this package. For example, the fact that liquidation must be ordered by the court in the year preceding the entry into force of the law, i.e. in 2015 may be considered to be a likely case - just think that this is a basic condition in order to compensate customers buying bonds from Quaestor Financial Consultant - but we cannot guarantee that. Therefore, one of Jobbik's proposed amendments is trying to resolve this conditional approach and to ensure that this narrowing condition and senseless narrowing do not characterize this system, since there is no need for it. And, indeed, there is a suspicion that these cuts have come into this because you have assessed the amount of framework they have available to settle the problem, and for this they have determined a percentage, and, yes, I have to identify with the idea that it is far-reachingly incorrect to cover 89 percent or, where appropriate, to have others cover the damage that has been done to these people. And the rest are either to be dealt with in civil court or, if this dictatorship is accepted, to waive any subsequent remedies, or at least to assume that. And you can see that, where appropriate, only hundreds of injured customers buying bonds from Quaestor Financial Consultant are affected by the senseless narrowing you put in this. And if we see here that compensation is not only due up to HUF 30 million, but the amount of return must also be deducted from the amount of return calculated and paid from 2008, we note here that the government will take account of the expectations of the Hungarian Banking Association, so it is not certain that it would act in its own right. Here, another recommendation from the Banking Association, another discount to the banks can be achieved, and, where appropriate, we quote from kisalfold.hu that Győr received his 1 billion government bonds back with interest. It will therefore be clarified here again, and we will obviously say it several times, until Mr Secretary of State has clarified what arises in the case of Győr on this issue. It can also be seen that only less than half of the 30,000 victims are affected by the full return of what they deserve. And the taking up of a three-month bridging loan and the issuing of a 12-year fixed-rate bond for repayment is a gradual system that ends with, in fact, a large part of the burden being borne by taxpayers. And here again, we find that there is a small discount for banks hidden in this package. This is a discount package, by the way, based on the requirements of the Hungarian Banking Association, and another small concession to maximize the annual amount of Beva members' contributions to 7 billion, but the amount paid is from corporate tax, the bank tax, which has also been reduced and will be deducted and can also be recovered from paid transaction fees. So you can see that these amounts are flowing back on the channels, and the end of the system is that the Hungarian taxpayers will cover the accounts of the troubles that were not caused by the Hungarian taxpayers, but by a very well-defined group of companies, and we can also see that what you have placed before us could relate largely to the victims of Quaestor and Hungária; and not to the clients of Buda-Cash and Quaestor Financial Consultant, where appropriate. And we can also see that there's such a thing here. in front of us, which has performed the financial service without permission, so it was not under the supervision of the MNB, so you do not wish to bring your victims back to normal or at least to sort out their situation at some level. And they justify their requirement to repay the return by saying that Quaestor was practically a pyramid. Mr. Secretary, it was! Yeah. There is a question of how many municipalities could put their money in a pyramid game, how they could put the State's money in a pyramid game, what their returns would be, and we also see that if all those involved were to be renounced from their other claims, so accept this 89 percent amount, but give up what you do if you do in some magical way that I don't believe in, but suppose you can recover the total amount of damage from the affected company or elsewhere. Will you keep it in the compensation fund or the compensation fund? What about this amount? What about this huge chasm? And we can also say that this package can put certain victims in a favourable position. We can even say that a good, very, very difficult, yes vote with a sweaty smell could be used, but how do you think that much of the burden will remain on the shoulders of taxpayers? They're making the same mistake, you could call it a sin, by the way, that they did in the so-called settlement of foreign currency loans. There, too, for the first time, there was a threefold division, which was already incorrect, since the banks concerned could be more responsible for this situation than those clients who, in my view, did not. However, the end of the package was that the victims suffered much of these burdens, the vast majority of them, well over two thirds of one account. So we can say that you did not learn from the error or sin at that time, and I would like to add the same. Let us not be unjust, let us be glad that some people can be put in an easier position. Let's not get defensive; it wouldn't be nice. [[21.00]] But you have to see that this isn't about the full compensation you promised. We can also say that the Constitutional Court, the Hungarian Banking Association and other external forces have obviously influenced your action plan, because here we have a highly modified package. We can also say that it is completely unfair for taxpayers to take down the incredible damage caused by the companies involved, so you are now facing your own promise. Where appropriate, this package may not be supported as a counter-suite, I repeat that it is very, very difficult, but these question marks do need to be resolved and the situation must be reached, so that the Hungarian taxpayers do not pay the bill instead of those who have committed qualified crimes in the Hungarian financial market. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-12-14-221	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, May Other be Politics.
u2015-12-14-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, a bill on compensation for victims of financial intermediaries is not the first. In the spring, the government resolved the issue; more precisely, it did. They beat the Quaestor Compensation Act with a similar pace and haste. LMP had already indicated that the law was wrong, unfair and not least against the law. That law was a hoax and a hoax. We also believe that the government itself did not expect the original Quaestor Act, which was marked and accepted by Antal Rogán, to stand the test of constitutionality, because the government did not implement its own law in an unusual way from Fidesz, but covered itself with waiting for the decision of the Constitutional Court. So not only did the government deceive the victims of Hungaria, Buda-Cash and Baumag, but also the victims of Quaestor. From this point of view, the deceived and betrayed Quaestor victims were entitled to receive a HUF 100 billion promised on the basis of the only legislation they had been able to comply with. It can be said that this is the result of the rushing and system-wide mass-destructive lawmaking - the revenge of the reject, the manyth season. Antal Rogán, of course, received his reward for the implementation of the dilettant and irresponsible legislation, received a ministerial velvet chair, and we stayed here with the problem. The government wanted to save his skin this spring because he was in deep Quaestor scandal. The members of the government have actively contributed to covering for cheating companies, so that they can continue the pinging and damage the bondholders. The government has made Quaestor the economic support of an adventurer policy called the Eastern Opening, carrying money into the Quaestor, performing together at stadium and visa center openings. Quasi government guarantee must have been felt by the person who invested in this company. That is, the government actively assisted in the scam of bondholders. In the end, the government acknowledged with unequal compensation that it felt responsible for the Quaestor's bankruptcy. Another major responsibility for the scandals is the Hungarian National Bank, which exercises financial supervision on the part of the State. They also allowed for excessive, irresponsible issuance of bonds and risky and even illegal operations. His activity has contributed to people being harmed by hundreds of billions of dollars. The broker scandals, the Quaestor case, have shown that the MNB is not able to provide this area properly. Part of the reason he can't do it is because he's intertwined with a corrupt economic elite whose business he wants to hide. The MNB's responsibility is inevitable. But what is the new bill about? Following the decision of the Constitutional Court in November, the Government's new Quaestor bill introduces stricter rules than the original rules against investment institutions, but what a surprise, compensation is passed on to us, taxpayers. After the Constitutional Court annulled some of the elements of the Quaestor Act, I may have asked the competent minister, in the context of an interpellation or immediate question, how we would proceed and how we would proceed. In my comment, in my question, I asked and raised the involvement of the Hungarian National Bank in funding. The answer I have received from Minister Lazarus is how we imagine we will not use public money to do this, and this cannot be arranged with public money. What did we see now? It means that the compensation fund is filled by Beva's contributors in name, but the payments can be deducted from the taxes that we are paying. Well, what if it's not public money again? The MNB, which allows and hides the pyramid game, does not participate in the compensation. That three-month temporary loan doesn't mean anything. Fidesz, we see, needs the MNB's money, because they can play the nominally independent central bank's money through the simplest offshore companies to the economic hinterland. Another problem is that the law remains highly discriminatory, many victims are still ignored. The victims of the Hungaria bond are, yes, involved in the settlement of claims, but some of the clients of the Quaestor Group are missing out again, as are the clients of Buda-Cash or Baumag. The only correct point of the new bill is that bondholders would not be compensated at nominal value, but would be deducted from previously paid returns. This is logical and reasonable, as investors have also taken risks by buying bonds and is fair to other citizens of Hungary. However, because of the points previously listed, this draft law is still unacceptable in this form. The LMP submitted two amendments. One concerns the National Bank of Hungary, so that he can fill the fund from the exchange rate gains. The other was to expand the scope of eligibility, because one of the twists of the Quaestor case is that the Quaestor group, which operates as a criminal organisation, is not in liquidation, from Quaestor Securities Trading and Investment Ltd., but from Quaestor Financial Consultant Zrt. He bought the Hruria bonds. However, the latter company is not only a member of Beva but is not in liquidation, so the submitted bill would exclude its clients from compensation. I assume that the majority of governments did not support any of our amendments. What would be the normal and thorough settlement of the question? Firstly, the establishment of a committee of inquiry initiated by the LMP in the spring. This first step is essential in order to avoid similar cases in the future and to identify who are responsible for these scandals. That's what all the rest can be based on. On the other hand, we should stop the MNB acting like a runaway cannon. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank deals with everything, buys luxury estates, paintings and instruments, wants to start its own higher education, and uses its profits at the expense of foreign exchange lenders. He doesn't do one thing that's his job, he doesn't do effective financial market supervision. Therefore, those responsible for the compensation of victims of broker scandals must contribute, in particular, to the owners, and secondly to the government and the MNB. The National Bank of Matolcsy must assume its responsibility, admit that there have been frauds. Financial supervision has assisted this partly because of political relations and partly because of professional incompetence. Therefore, the MNB should be responsible for a significant part of the account and contribute to the compensation fund. According to the LMP, the MNB should establish a fund from its profits that will allow it to do so automatically. And if they set up a compensation fund, it should apply to all cases where the government's responsibility arises. That's why we need the committee of inquiry. In our view, we can say that we have dealt with the consequences of broker scandals if we can be sure that there will be no scandal like Quaestor, Buda-Cash or Hungária in the coming years. To do this, of course, we need to know exactly what happened, how political elites and fraudulent businesses were merged, we need to strengthen the regulatory environment and strengthen supervision. You have done nothing of this, the broker scandals have had no real consequences, and the injured have not yet received their money after almost a year. The government is also responsible for not only triggering broker scandals, but also for mishandling them. Thank you for your attention. [[21.10]]
u2015-12-14-223	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll ask the congresswoman, gentlemen, if you'd like to comment on the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. [[To Dr. Pál Völner:]] I see the Secretary of State is preparing, and he has 4 minutes and 40 seconds left to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-12-14-224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to answer some of the questions that have been raised here to my fellow Members. Indeed, the crime of the century could be talked about in the spring, since these types of crimes came up in a row, which, after years and years, resulted precisely from an inadequate regulatory environment, and it was precisely the National Bank that could practically reveal them with its new methods. So it's just a thank you to the National Bank, and it shouldn't be the responsibility to expose decades of fraud. Saving the victims is also the purpose of this law, as it can be seen that, in particular, it grants positive discrimination to victims below HUF 3 million, because there is a zero-percent spread of the part used earlier at Beva, so they do not have to bear their share of the damage. As regards returns, Mr Szakács made an observation that the taxes paid earlier would also be deducted here. It is only the actual credited returns, i.e. the net returns, that reduces the amount of compensation, so there is no need to fear this. Why do you have to give up that claim? On the one hand, it can be seen that there is very little hope for return on these fictitious bonds, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát mentioned this. Obviously, if there were multiple returns, this question could be brought back to the House. And the second is that if you see more hope in a battle with an executor to achieve more returns than this compensation on a fair basis, you obviously have the opportunity to do so. I would like to point out in particular that the previous compensation law was about the possibility of paying the damages without a separate examination on the basis of a general compensation, but the decision of the Constitutional Court determined the amendments which we had to introduce, and the law fully complied with it. So anyone here who suspects any kind of sanda intention by the government, or wants to have the rules determined on the basis of a countdown of money, is wrong. With regard to the financial advisor's clients, it was also said at the committee meeting that Article 15 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council should be amended accordingly. Paragraph 3 of Paragraph 3 of the Act provides the victims, who do not have a bond account, so they cannot prove to Beva that they are entitled to declare this in court with a judgment, and in this case the fund will be entitled to claim. Why did the circle of those entitled to compensation develop like this? The Constitutional Court provided for the requirement of homogeneous group formation and thus could be established in a definitive manner which would meet this requirement. The compensation for the damage suffered by the municipalities of Győr and Újpest has been mentioned. This is not about reimbursement, it is about government bonds, so it is certain that they are guaranteed by the State, in the form of established existing bonds, at the end of which, of course, the State will pay the return, and this will be paid separately. It is precisely because it does not talk about damage in government bonds, but about fictitious or within its own group of companies. Returning to the responsibility of the MNB once again, the purpose of this law is not to establish responsibility, the law enforcement authorities are there, they will determine how this long-term set of frauds may have occurred, and it is obvious that responsibility should be established along it. The claims settlement itself is ex-gratia, claims settlement on a fairness basis, so in fact all customers are better off than could be derived from the previous general rules. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-225	Thank you, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2015 CXXIV on National Accreditation. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/6987. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-226	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 CXXIV on national accreditation on 10 December 2015. Law and the bill, and in this context, the Committee adopted 23 yes amendments, 1 no and 2 abstentions. In its own amendment, the Committee proposed not only technical amendments, but also clarified the wording of Article 14 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. § 3 of the 2011 CIV on Hungary's economic stability. Law 29. Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the Act, the Minister may, on the basis of the authorisation of a government decree issued by law or by the original legislator, lay down a regulation issued with the agreement of the Minister responsible for tax policy, not the Minister responsible for public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to establish a new uniform national accreditation system, which is necessary for compliance with European standards, so the proposal includes amendments to the National Accreditation Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016. There was no particularly big debate at the committee meeting, which shows that we were almost able to adopt the bill unanimously. I ask that the bill be supported by the Members of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-14-227	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary Lepsényi says no. Maybe at the end, if necessary, you can do it within a 10-minute time frame. Dear Parliament, I'll ask who wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, and no representatives have applied for a statement of opposition. Dear Parliament, The debate that has not happened is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State István Lepsényi.
u2015-12-14-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In July 2015, the Parliament adopted the National Accreditation Act, the main purpose of which was to increase the competitiveness of domestic businesses. The government intends, where possible, to reduce the bureaucratic burden on businesses. The bill under discussion and the regulations implementing the law provide effective guarantees that the accreditation procedure will be cheaper and shorter. The amendments are necessary for the compliance of the law which will enter into force on 1 January 2016 with EU standards: the new central budgetary authority, the structure of the national accreditation authority, the rules of the supervisory review procedure, the rules on recognition of foreign accreditation status and the detailed rules for the notification of changes are laid down. The proposed amendments shall ensure that the procedures continue with the termination of the National Accreditation Board and the establishment of a new accreditation body, and the Government will do its utmost to ensure that the international recognition of the new accreditation body is swift and smooth. [[21.20]] By adopting the proposal, the accreditation procedure will become faster, more efficient, transparent and even more customer-friendly. Compared to the current legislation, the period of validity of the accredited status increases from four to five years and the frequency of mandatory reviews is reduced. During a 20-year period, this is about a larger enterprise. It represents a saving of HUF 10 million in procedural fees alone, while savings can be measured by millions in a smaller company. The organisational transformation does not change substantially the procedural order that complies with international standards, the professional level of procedures is not reduced, and therefore accredited organisations can really meet the requirements for carrying out their activities more easily and quickly. Honourable Members, The National Accreditation Board Accredits more than 600 individuals engaged in certification activities, while amending the law and creating implementing regulations, their opinions and needs were brought to our attention by many of them. These have been taken into account and a system has been set up to take a significant step towards increasing their success and their international competitiveness. This is included in the legislative amendments currently under discussion. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-229	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Lepsényi. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, it follows that the XXXIV of 2013 on the organization involved in the settlement of certain disputes relating to the design and execution of the construction works and on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of chain debts and late payments. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/7830. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-230	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 10 December 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the organisation involved in the settlement of certain disputes relating to the design and execution of works and the XXXIV of 2013 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of chain debts in the field of construction and late payments. T/7830. Bill No. 1. This proposal was first submitted with the aim of amending the relevant law on the basis of experience gained in the past two years' operation of the Performance Certification Expert Body established on 1 July 2013 for the eradication of chain debts in the construction sector. The proposal also aims at extending the activities of the Certification Expert Body. In this way, the procedure should be available to more companies, faster and more efficient. In its five-point background material, the Economic Committee recommended that the term. "supplier" be used instead of "suppliers" in accordance with the relevant legislation, taking into account the linguistic positioning criteria and for the sake of uniform use of the term. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments made to the Committee's background, which were supported by 24 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. The Committee also adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report in the same proportion. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-14-231	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr István Lepsényi, State Secretary, whether he wishes to comment now or at the end of the debate. [[István Lepsényi: At the end.]] At the end of the debate. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow within the time frame on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is therefore closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Lepsényi.
u2015-12-14-232	Mr President, Dear Parliament, By 2013, the ever-increasing chain debt in the Hungarian construction sector not only threatened the existence of the construction sector, but also the potential for the development of the Hungarian economy. Therefore, the management of chain debt and, where possible, a significant reduction in their proportion as soon as possible became a national economic issue. Recognizing the situation, the Hungarian Government has taken a number of measures towards the solution from 2013. One of these priority steps was the establishment of the Performance Certification Expert Body with effect from 1 July 2013. Thanks to several government measures over the past two years, besides the Hungarian economy, the construction sector, which has been particularly hard hit by the crisis, has also started to grow. In the housing market, the spectacular growth is mainly due to a favourable credit environment and low interest rates, while helping foreign exchange lenders and improving income conditions. The ever-stable economy also attracts real estate investors. KSH 2015 I-III. In total, 24 percent more housing permits were issued than during the same period of the previous year. Surveys and experience have shown that the Performance Certification Expert Body has played an important role in moving in a positive direction. Although the number of applications received is increasing, this is mainly due to the organisation's becoming known and, at the same time, it can be observed that the amount of the contested values is decreasing. In the last two years, the chain debt of 400 billion has decreased by less than half. A number of other measures by the government, such as the introduction of a mandatory minimum hourly fee, the requirement to transfer the construction work area certified by the contractor during the granting of a permit for entry into service and the mandatory application of the e-Building log in the case of construction construction activities, served to reduce the whitening of the construction sector and the reduction of the chain debts. The construction sector, and especially the housing segment, are greatly encouraged by the latest government measure, which shows that the rate of VAT on new housing is reduced to 5 percent. Despite the progress made so far in the elimination of chain debt, it is necessary to continue the work that has been undertaken, with the involvement of professional organisations, with a view to maintaining success in the long term. I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-233	Thank you, Secretary of State Lepsényi. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on amendments to the laws concerning certain actors in the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/7396. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee, within a time frame of up to eight minutes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[21.30]]
u2015-12-14-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the House that the Legislative Committee on 10 December 2015 is subject to Rule 46 of the Rules of the House. T/7396 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain entities of the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, with 5 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains a large part of the amendment of the Committee's amendment and the TAB's own proposal, which partially clarifies the text of the Committee's text. I would like to highlight among the amending provisions that are intended to settle the data management rules of the Hungarian National Bank. The reason for the amendment is to clarify the rules on data processing, by incorporating appropriate guarantee rules. The proposal makes it clear that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can only process data already obtained in connection with its supervisory tasks in another procedure, and makes it clear that data processing is only possible for the purpose of carrying out the procedure and clarifying the facts. In view of the fact that personal data may be processed in this context, it is also appropriate to provide guarantees under the information law. The time limits for data processing are laid down in the Hungarian National Bank Act and the Ket. regulates with appropriate guarantees, so there are no constitutional concerns, in particular that the aim of the proposal is to clarify that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can manage the specified data only for the purposes of the market surveillance procedure, but this requires the prior approval of the prosecutor. I ask that you support the bill, taking into account what has been said. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-235	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-12-14-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would not even like to highlight the substance of the proposal, but rather specifically what came up as a debate at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. There was a question of procedural principle that, to this day, I was a little disappointed that the point of order I put forward was not supported by the committee. I say this because so far, there has been no precedent for not complying with the otherwise unanimously adopted Rules of Procedure of the Legislative Committee. Sadly, however, this has happened, and it is neither worthwhile nor possible to go without a word. What has happened is that the representative of the Government has, and must be acknowledged, tabled a non-significant or not significant amendment there at the committee meeting. He submitted that he had done so before the debate, so it was not possible for the Government to present the amendment on the basis of the arguments raised in the debate. However, if it were not a proposal for a linguistic position and not a proposal for an amendment, such as a common position or even an individual position, it would not have been possible for the committee to discuss it under the order of business. This is not the point here, and I would like to put this on the table again and point out whether it is enough five minutes or ten minutes for such an amendment, say, to be seen and appreciated by opposition or even government representatives, but to open a door that could then be used by others. There may also be proposals for amendments which are obviously significantly more extensive than that. So we're talking about a problem of principle here. What I would like to point out here is that we cannot identify and agree with this, and we can only hope that this will be a one-time and non-repeated case, because - once again - the procedure of the Legislative Committee has so far, if you will, been famous for the fact that, contrary to the series of house violations that occurred in the last term, which occurred in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have always kept our own order. The other thing I would like to say a few words about is actually a substantial part of the proposal. There was a conflict here - at least in the beginning - between the representative of the National Bank, its Vice-President and the government, because the Vice-President of the National Bank complained that the government referral virtually renders the control rights and powers of the Hungarian National Bank impossible or very difficult. Here, the government, in its reasoning, claimed that this restriction was necessary because this is how the legislation is brought into line with the information law, the data protection law. We have been trying to figure out whether a regulation contrary to this rule, namely, which, by the way, I note, is logically understood by Mr Vice-President as to the extent to which it would conflict with the info law. Unfortunately, we did not receive an answer at the committee meeting, so I will try again to ask this question regarding the presentation of the Commission's minority opinion on why the government thought at the time that this was an amendment necessary for the info law and, hearing the criticism of the Vice-President, why it decided not to be. At least the answer is missing in this regard. I don't want to speculate either, and I don't want to argue for one solution or another. In this regard, I would like to take the comfortable position of opposition representatives to ask questions and ask which opinion is true, in which case it does not conflict with the provisions of the info law. The Secretary of State gave me an answer that, if there were any problems of this nature, it could be changed in the spring. I certainly appreciate this sentence, but I note that it is neither a fortunate practice nor a fortunate practice to create a law which, if appropriate, is contrary to any other law or even higher law, to two-thirds of the law, to a cardinal law or to a Fundamental Law, and if that proves so, we will amend it. It would be more worthwhile to stand on a slightly more secure footing in the course of legislation and to hear clearer arguments. So I would just like to ask with all due respect that, if you can give me a more detailed answer to this now, either my fellow members of the Government or Madam Secretary of State, then do so, if not, then let us just hope that the legislation to be adopted will not be contrary to other higher legislation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-14-237	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I will ask the rapporteur, Ms Agnes Hornung, that she wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[For signal:]] At the end of the debate. Thank you very much. Then you'll have ten minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz. [[21.40]]
u2015-12-14-238	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to say to Mr Bárándy Péter...
u2015-12-14-239	Gergely Bárándy, Congressman.
u2015-12-14-240	Sorry, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. I hope I didn't offend you, but I'm sure I didn't. So I would like to respond to Mr Gergely Bárándy's comment. Not for debate's sake, but it really has to be said that in the Legislative Committee, at least when adopting the agendas, we have a consensus in the order of business, and it does not usually become a problem. There was indeed a little debate, but the majority of the Members lived a little differently. We believe that we have done absolutely house-to-door, because we have further clarified an amendment by reducing the government's powers with a semi-spoken phrase. That's why we thought it wouldn't cross the line. It is not a whole new amendment, but the original proposal was concluded that the government regulation regulates it, a point, and this was supplemented by the half sentence that investment in a private limited company can be made and acquired only in a bank established in Hungary. I think it's okay, it's a transparent semi-phrased amendment. We have not broken anything, and I believe that with this provision we have limited the powers of the government only. So it's a clarification. I hope that, in the next period, at least as regards the rule of law, the order of business, we will continue to work in agreement and with consensus in this committee. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-241	Thank you, Congressman Márius Révész. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-12-14-242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully agree with the last sentence of my fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, and I hope so, because so far. I'd just like to have a very short debate with you. We have not violated the house rules, only our own order of business, and I would like to point out this once again. If you say that the government's powers have been reduced by this amending proposal, then you also say, where we agree again, that this was a substantive amendment proposal. The proposal amending the amending proposal is the amending proposal. It is a new amendment which corrects the old one. I think that the proposed amendment should also be interpreted as such, as we have always done, and we are doing it now. However, if this is an amending proposal, and if this is a substantive amendment, it does not fall within the framework that this can only be done locally at the Legislative Committee for reasons of language or coherence, if a short-term and easy-to-clear amendment is not the result of the legislative debate. But I'll say it again, because the government brought this up and put it up before the debate started, so obviously that was out of the question. Again, I don't want to ride this. I also said that it's not customary to mess with each other at the committee meeting, and that's not what I'm doing here, and all I can say is thank God, this is the first time I can say that our order of business hasn't been followed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I sincerely hope that this will continue to be the case in the future, and this was an outstanding case. That's all I said, and I think we've been over this. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-243	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will give the floor to Secretary of State Ms Hornung in a ten-minute time frame to respond to what has been said.
u2015-12-14-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I don't want to go into the previous debate. The TAB meeting discussed the point of order and the committee accepted it, so I do not want to add any more on this subject. The proposal, which lies before us, also contains a number of interesting and important points, points that are all in the interests of citizens and consumers. These are essentially amendments for harmonisation, which have included minor clarification and clarity in order to comply with both EU obligations and more precise consumer protection rules. Several speeches have been made in the course of the presentation of the proposal, but I believe that there is overall agreement between Members and individual committees on these issues. That is why I would like to ask the honourable Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-14-245	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Agnes Hornung. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. and the discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on Sport and the summary amendment proposal. T/778 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a total time frame of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum time frame of eight minutes.
u2015-12-14-246	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/778 on 10 December 2015. No XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. and the bill amending Law I of 2004 on Sport, and in this context Article 46 of the Rules of the House. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 3 abstentions. The Committee also adopted its own amendment of reference No 1 of the Legislative Committee in the same proportion, which mainly contains technical and codification clarifications and provides for the amendment of Law No I of 2004 on sport in accordance with the bill No 22. In order to ensure consistency with paragraph 3 of Section 3, it is also clear that the administrative service fee is to be interpreted only in the context of the tasks and powers of the professional association which constitute the administrative procedure. The amendment of the sport law also ensures the internal coherence of the law, contains clarification of a legal nature and ensures uniform use of terms. I can assure you that the Government will, of course, monitor the effects in the future and give the necessary information to this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-14-247	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2015-12-14-248	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary did not support this amendment, which now lies before us, and the other opposition parties did not support or abstain on this issue. Our position is that the law is no good. In this connection, my fellow Members György Szilágyi and János Volner have tabled amendments to half of the sections contained in the bill, and most of all they propose that they should be deleted. In our view, this would not only lead this case forward, but rather hinder it. On the one hand, because the Tao procedure is still too complicated, and we see that with this amendment we will continue to complicate the Taos procedure, and we believe that it is in no way in the interest of the parties involved. On the other hand, we believe that with this amendment, injustices can be introduced, at least when advertising and marketing can be separated from sports associations, athletes, as property rights. On this basis, the system will be completely unfair, not determined by the size of performance and by the love of the audience, but, where appropriate, the alliance's decision will determine where, for which sports association, how much money will be spent. [[21.50]] This will in no way inspire athletes to improve sports activity. I think that when our football team is preparing for the European Championship, when Hungary is preparing for the Olympics, it will in no way improve that fighting spirit and sports performance will be increased if we adopt this law. In this respect, my fellow Members have tabled an amendment, but this has not been adopted. In our view, this bill is not good, so we do not support it, which is why we have formulated the minority opinion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-249	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Bánki, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[Erik Bánki: In the end.]] At the end of the debate, you will have a 10-minute chance, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2015-12-14-250	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pick up where my better fellow Member left off. I led the National Association of Sports Associations myself for ten years, which I recently gave up, because I thought it was necessary to choose a man who has a little more lobbying power and maybe better to work for the associations. So Tamás Deutsch was elected president unanimously at his last delegation meeting. Allow me to congratulate Tamás Deutsch here and wish him that he will be effective in his work. However, it is also important that you stress what my fellow Member Gyure spoke about, which is why it is important. As far as the Tao is concerned, my fellow Member Erik Bánki also knows this very well, there has been for a very long time the need for the associations to participate in this in some form and not only on the part of the sports associations. After all, as we say, Hungarian sport is the basic unit of the association, and even though there is workshop support, there is a wide range of other opportunities for support, even through the sports associations, it would be better for each association, regardless of the kind of sport it is active in, to have access to this Tao support, even for operating costs. After all, this is an old problem for the associations, and the umbrella organization that I run has spoken several times, and has commented on the debate that in many cases there are already high state resources for professional work, replacements and many others, or any other support, but in terms of operating costs, the associations are in a very difficult situation. The lights have to be turned on, the books have to be done, and the rest, and the rest, which are not closely linked to sports activity, but it is necessary in any way to ensure that excellent Hungarian athletes are able to perform their work and be effective. In fact, this is also true of non-Olympian sports, because in many cases we find that we are forgetting this a little bit, and it is independent of party politics that there are not only Olympic sports, there are not only Olympic athletes, but there are many other excellent competitors who are not active in Olympic sports. So, overall, I just wanted to confirm, perhaps, what the minority opinion said, that it would certainly be worth considering for the government how to extend this Tao support, how to make it available to as many associations as possible, no matter what kind of department it has in which sport it has. I would add that this is only interesting and important because one of Tamás Deutsch's important commitments was that in this respect, too, in his presidential speech, he promised to lobby the government. That is why I thought that, in anticipation of this, since this subject has been mentioned in this way in this law, I would recommend it to the attention of Congressman Bánki and the others. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-12-14-251	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2015-12-14-252	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the amendments tabled by my fellow Members György Szilágyi and János Volner to this bill. I have already mentioned in the drafting of the minority opinion that practically out of the eight paragraphs, one of which is the entry into force clause, my fellow Members propose four out of practically seven operative parts, and the Movement for Jobbik Hungary. I would like to say a few words about these. We'd like to focus on 1st floor. It is also possible to leave the section. Why would we want to do that? Article 1 § 2 ensures that the public toy organizer can deduct from the toy tax the consideration of contracts concluded for property rights. With this, our problem is that it has a strong impact on the revenue of the budget and no impact assessments have been carried out, and there is no opinion on the financial implications of this, what is expected in the budget, and there will be a positive and negative ring-off. That we do not see it this way, and therefore we cannot support it in any way. Article 1 After par. 2 and 3. We would also like to ask you to leave the section and to leave it. Why would we want that? I have already told you that the Tao system is quite complex, and here the legislator brings in one more step, if it were to be adopted without change, this 8 paragraph bill. What are you bringing in here? It brings in the institution of the grant letter of intent. So a whole new institution will be introduced. So when someone wants to apply for a Tao, and if they want to develop it, it won't be enough to get it accepted, but we have to go through another round of financial supporters or potential future donors to see if they have a declaration of intent. He'll get them, even determine them in sum. However, such a statement of support alone will not be worth much, since it is just, as it is in its name, an intention does not mean any obligation. This can be obtained, it can be withdrawn afterwards, it cannot be obliged to do anything on this basis. So we don't understand what's causing this, that we have to complicate Tao's system with one more step, plus action. And our third proposal is the 7th. This applies to the abandonment of Section 1. Why would we want to leave this? The bill and the justification are also clear. He says that practically sports broadcasting and competition organisation are the same as marketing and advertising rights, which are at such a match or at a sports event, so they are considered to be the same and constitute a property right. We know very well that mediation and competition organization are always part of the sports associations, so they also have the revenue from this, and they will distribute it. This could be the same on the basis of this law, if adopted, the same will happen to advertising and marketing. What does that mean if we translate it? This means that what a sports club now prints, for example, around the sports field or on the jerseys that athletes wear, or when we talk about individual sports, is also jerseys or sports equipment, sports bags, and the rest, then athletes will not have these incomes, nor will the association itself have them. Which they could say might not be a problem. Yes, but when the Alliance can intervene to this extent, and if there is a sport, a sports club, which is not popular, which cannot attract people, so it has a small advertising platform, while there is another sports club that can attract the curiosity of up to tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people, then obviously it will have a much more valuable advertising platform, much more revenue from its marketing. [[22.00]] In this case, we believe that on this basis, the trade union can legally distract and redeploy this. This is what I said in the minority opinion, too, that this may result in the fact that good performances will not be inspired to receive the higher remuneration, they will have greater revenue from advertising, marketing, but this will be distributed by the sports professional association and not by the natural spirit of competition, but by this we will intervene in, and we will eliminate this spirit of competition and distribute this money at all. There will be no interest, where appropriate, in sports associations in achieving higher performance revenues. So in any case, we see this as counterproductive, so we are asking for 7. In general, the removal of § 5 and, in general, the abandonment of half of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-253	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2015-12-14-254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to mention two things briefly about the Tao. One is that it obviously doesn't matter whether it's accompanied by a commitment or a declaration of intent. I think that this does not need to be opened, and everyone understands this clearly and sees what kind of a declaration of intent has been said, not only with internal content, but also with legal consequences - to say nothing - while a commitment is quite different from this. Therefore, I will not repeat the sentences that have been made before me. The other thing I would like to mention is that I cannot look at these resources differently, just as public money. The division, breakdown of these resources within the fraternity framework and the outcome of what is confirmed by what it looks like today. I'm not going into the details. I just want to light up one moment. If we look at, say, funding for football, we can see - not now, but if we go back one or two or three years - then, not in a completely understandable way, Tao money will cost you more than two billion, sometimes around two billion, now not much less than two billion, but always most. Now Minister Seszták's country, Kisvárda, has caught up with this. In this year, I understand that he has joined the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in the second place with HUF 260 million in cash. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] What I'm trying to say is that I think something is wrong, because it's not the places in the political hierarchy that should determine how and in what order tao money goes somewhere. As a county of Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, I can rightly say that as an example, a football team such as Nuosgyőr, which does not have 12, 28, 76, 114, but thousands, if any, in the order of tens of thousands, can not obtain a fraction of the money, such as Felcsút or now Kisvárda. I consider this to be an absolute torso, and the degree of politics that I judge not only as a torso, but also as a judge. I think it would be worth drawing a clear, clear picture in this regard that these sources, these tao money, if I was just talking about football now, how and in what way football is broken down. But it could be the same, let's say, in terms of stadium development, if I look at the development money of some stadiums in Budapest - MTK and others - and, say, I look at the development of the stadium in Diósgyőr, then again I face the same torsos. What I am trying to say is that I think it is completely unacceptable that the resources that I consider as public money are being used in Hungary in this way, but I think that it is not only being used in this way in Hungary; once again, I stress that my judgment, my experience, my opinion, is in absolute close association with political affiliation and the occupied place in the political hierarchy, which is quoted in quotes. And that's not good. And if I want to look out on this issue in a broader sense and focus not only on football, then it would also be worth giving a view, let us say, within the walls of Parliament, into the hands of the Members of Parliament - but if not, we are able to collect it - that, let us say, in the relationship system of professional associations that can access Tao resources at all, how and in what order the Tao resources are distributed and awarded. One word, like a hundred, I think that in the coming period it will be worth looking back at such a distorted allocation of resources over recent years, and learning from it, perhaps in many respects and even a little further away from football - citing the possibility of increasing the use of resources in other sports as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-12-14-255	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2015-12-14-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! My fellow Member, who spoke before me, spoke about the unfair distribution of tao money, which is why I thought of another idea in this regard, namely why we do not have to leave everything to the trade associations, why we do not have to group all the money there, because we do not know that it will be distributed in a fair manner if we are to transfer everything there with this legislative amendment. Here, I would like to draw attention to a violation which, I believe, affects all the citizens of Nyíregyháza equally and affects all the counties of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg equally, and this is the decision of the professional association, MLSZ, on the basis of which the Spartacus football team in Nyíregyháza was excluded in 2015-2016, in my view completely unfairly and completely unjustly, in contrast to the rules of the MLSZ, Spartacus in Nyíregyháza was disqualified and assigned to NB III. I myself have dealt with this matter and studied it, and I have taken this position clearly, just like any other citizen in Nyíregyháza. At a time when sports associations are endowed with such power, and when serious, many hundreds of millions of forints and billions will be decided on the fate of the decision maker, a lot of things can possibly affect the decision maker, and that is why we need the brakes from which we now have a brake, I think that we will also take out this legislation, and we will give more opportunities to make more decisions like this, to take away the fun of a city of 120 thousand, a county of 550 thousand, with a pen stroke, with one such decision the sports associations will take. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-257	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] If not, I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Ágnes Hornung to give the government's opinion on the bill.
u2015-12-14-258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today, sport has become extremely important in addressing social problems and this proposal has been amended accordingly. In recent years, Hungary has supported sports-life players and investment in sports development with even greater amounts than its financial potential. Accordingly, the government decided that the Hungarian State would develop a new business line related to the commercial sale of the rights in question in respect of certain rights relating to advertising, marketing and mediation relating to sport activities as property rights. The amendment of the bill to the sport law aims to clarify the legal environment of government engagement by proposing to extend the scope of the rights of property provided for in the Spot Act to include marketing and advertising rights linked to sport. [[22.10]] The reason for this amendment is that marketing and advertising rights are at least as closely linked to sports activities and sporting events as sports broadcasting and competition organisation rights, which are already recognised as property rights in the law. Thus, the provision of the bill amending the law on the organisation of gambling is only Szerencség Zrt. ensure that the compensation for contracts concluded for the use of marketing and advertising rights of sporting events is deducted from the toy tax. It does so in order to ensure adequate transparency and adequate record keeping, proportionate to the possibility of deduction. This legislation will enter into force from 1 January 2016, so that Szerencségy Zrt. the right to deduct under the amended rules can actually be applied from the start of the accounting period of the monthly toy tax liability. The bill also amends the Company Tax Act in order to ensure the financial feasibility and predictability of sport development programmes. As a guarantee provision, we introduce that the tax benefit that can be used to support visual team sports will be enforceable if the donor taxpayer undertakes and expresses this in the letter of intent to the sports organisation. In this regard, I would like to point out that, while the existence of a declaration of intent is a condition for the use of the tax relief and the issue of the aid certificate, it is not legally binding from the point of view of the donor taxpayer, given that it is a declaration of intent, i.e. the possible absence of aid has no adverse legal consequences. I would like to ask honourable Members to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-259	I will now close the debate and ask the rapporteur, Mr Bánki Erik, if he wishes to comment. It says yes. You have the floor.
u2015-12-14-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! We are discussing this bill in late hours, the general debate of which has brought serious anger to the system. This is an amendment to a law that basically makes technical amendments, in particular the Sports Act, the 2004 Act I, and changes the law on the organisation of gambling and corporate tax and dividend taxation. About the same arguments were made by the opposition in the general debate as we heard now during the final debate, which are basically based either on error or deliberately misinterpreting the intention and content of the proposed amendment. In his comments, Mr Attila Mesterházy was positive about the sports support system, recognising that the Hungarian government is extremely generous in the field of sports subsidies. Let us be honest, my fellow Member does not have much choice, as during the last socialist government, the amount of sports support in the 2010 budget was approximately HUF 16-16.5 billion, compared to that in the 2016 law it amounts to more than HUF 120 billion. So the government has eight times the funding for sport, which, I think, is a perfectly clear and good direction, because sport has a positive impact on the whole verticicity of society. It results in savings from the health budget, increases the activity of workers, not to mention teaching children basic things like fighting knowledge, the ability to process defeat, and learning team play, support each other and help each other. So I think that this is a good direction, and that is not even disputed in the debate. You mentioned, Congressman, that we should think about extending the tao. Obviously, Mr President, and my fellow Members know that corporate tax is an area subject to Community legislation. In English, in order to modify the corporate tax exemption system in the next period, it is necessary to approve the European Commission. Hungary was the first to introduce this type of corporate tax benefit from the EU Member States. The conciliation period was not short, since it took more than eight months, but I think it is a record, given that changes to other similar Community regulations can usually be carried through the European Commission in one and a half to two years. I think that this shows the readiness and competence of government and government civil servants. So if we were to begin to amend this law, we would have to consult the European Commission in advance, which, of course, has the opportunity, but I would just like to draw attention to the fact that no one is going to make such expectations by expressing their comments or any social event, which outlines the possibility that this expansion can be resolved with a simple parliamentary decision. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, spoke about the unfair distribution of tao and the too complex system of corporate tax relief. Indeed, Mr President, you are right that in order to submit a tender for corporate tax support to sports organisations, there is a need for thorough preparation. However, I think that the last few years have shown that every year the number of sports organisations who have been able to apply successfully has increased. As regards MLS, I can tell you, honourable Member, that more than two thousand sports organisations now apply effectively each year, and the application efficiency exceeds 98 percent. So a fraction of them are rejected because of a formal error. Mr President, you also resented the fact that large clubs and large associations are more easily able to obtain subsidies and that associations are partial when making grant decisions. Well, once again, I can give you the example of the MLS, Your Honour. The success of small associations is above 80%. So, at most, the support needs of large clubs and the amounts of subsidies granted are high, which is because the size of infrastructure developments will obviously be much larger than a small villager's association. But what I can tell you, my fellow Member, is that over 300 tracks have been built in small settlements over the last three years, and hundreds of lockers have been renovated, which are usually the only community spaces in a small village where they can use not only football but also other sports for children, athletics or any other sport. So I think that there is something bigger than supporting football. The problem of centralising advertising rights has been raised by my fellow Member, in which he is obviously right, because that is what the law is about. However, this is not mandatory. This offers sports associations an opportunity to involve the sale of advertising platforms for sports associations with the aim and intention of achieving a higher revenue than before by means of a central sale. The clubs are free to decide that, by the way. So if any of the clubs decide that they are unwilling or unwilling to participate in this centralization, they will continue to offer their own surfaces for sale, they can do so. You'll probably get a little bit of income, but by the way, rehearsal, luck, that can be arranged. I must say to you, Member, that European examples also affect this direction, at least the examples of Central Europe. First Poland took this step, the Polish football association centralised the advertising rights of the club teams four years ago, and then it was able to sell it with Hungarian eyes for a crazy amount. Then maybe, I don't remember exactly, but the Hungarian Football Association, I think, sold broadcasting rights for a billion forints or 900 million forints, until the Polish Football Association was able to sell them for ten times that. It's a bigger country, I'll give you that, but I don't think that's the difference. Obviously, let's not say that the Premier League, the English professional football league, was able to sell advertising rights for £5.2 billion for three years, but it is obviously a different world and a different value system. So I think, yes, we are talking about centralization, but not mandatory, so clubs, if they find better sales channels, they can do it themselves. I am no longer surprised at the speech by my fellow Member Nándor Gúr, and I believe that we have become accustomed to this in recent years, that we are basically not hearing about the proposal, but about politically motivated attacks. In this case, it was no different. [[Nándor Gúr: Because you are making politics out of sport.]] That's what we're talking about, isn't it? Let me just say that in the bill before us neither Supper nor Miskolc is mentioned, nor is it about the evaluation methodology of the entire Tao system. [[22.20]] There is only one thing that the proposal concerns, I think, quite rightly, in the defense of the Ministry of National Economy or in the defence of public finances, that, contrary to previous practice, when everyone was free to apply without contacting a support company from whom they would expect a corporate tax offer, we now expect them, at least after the adoption of the bill, to seek out in advance the circle of supporters that is willing to give a letter of intent to support this investment. This does not mean, of course, that he will eventually support it, but at least we got to the point where he took the trouble and sought out those who could be potential supporters. Therefore, the proposal has nothing to do with what the Member said. Let me just say one thing, you said, Congressman, that there is a political decision behind the success of Tao contests. I would like to remind you of the Amnesty International survey, not the Hungarian one, which has been published, which is full of lies and uppercuts, but of the report on the website of the international association that has examined the financial distribution systems of the European sports federations. This type of activity of MLSZ has been best assessed, so I think that this is a sufficient response to whether a political decision can be taken behind the success of the proposals. In this case, too, I must say to you, Congressman, that the problem you have raised is not a problem. By the way, in order to say good things to you, Congressman, the development of the stadium in Miskolc and the replacement centre in Miskolc are both supported by the government and MLSZ, so in the future the city of Miskolc can look forward to beautiful and successful developments, with which I fully agree, because there are a lot of children playing sports there, and they also need to have conditions that can be competitive with information technology, IT learning, using machines or street hovering. So, to sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the bill before us contains partly technical clarifications, partly amendments that make the application of the legislation more effective and more effective, and therefore I ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-261	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The 2006 LIX on special tax and annuities to improve the balance of public finances now follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain tax laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/7831. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-262	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 10 December 2015 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2006 LIX on special tax and annuities to improve the balance of public finances. Act T/7831 amending certain tax laws The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment by 22 votes in favour, 3 against and 4 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains, on the one hand, a five-point amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, of which the Committee supported points 4 and 5, which contain technical amendments. On the other hand, it also contains the legislative committee's own amendment, according to which the special tax on financial institutions in the case of a credit institution in 2016 is 0.15% for the part of the tax base not exceeding HUF 50 billion and 0.24% for the above amount. On the basis of the amending proposal, the increase in lending activity should not be taken into account for the determination of the tax liability for 2016 and the proposal therefore ensures that the provisions concerned are deleted. Furthermore, on the basis of the amending proposal, the lending activity will not have to be examined in respect of the determination of the tax liability for the tax year 2016 and the proposal will therefore also ensure that the relevant provisions are deleted. In addition, on the basis of the amending proposal, the tax base will also be the 2009 tax base for the tax year 2016, the amending proposal amends the 2015 Act amending certain tax-related laws accordingly and provides for other technical clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, The consultations resulted in a compromise solution in the form of this proposal, which could be sustainable in the long term. I'd like your support, please. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-263	The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-12-14-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We welcomed the original bill, because it contained the beginning of a process that had long since been missed by the banking world itself, the financial world, and I think the Hungarian economy, because you introduced a brutal bank tax without counting its consequences, and the result was that your lending activity to commercial banks was almost minimised. For example, the Hungarian National Bank started a not very successful lending program because it was not implemented in accordance with the plans, so it launched a new one, let us trust that this will be more successful. But we also have to trust or should have hoped for the original bill that if the bank tax decreases and the condition that we expressly welcomed and rejoiced about it will be included in it, and that is why in the general debate we advanced the support of the bill, so that if banks can prove to be able to increase their lending activities, they can benefit from further tax relief. In fact, the banks would have been encouraged to increase their activity in both residential and entrepreneurial loans, to offer products on the market that could be tempting to this consumer base, and obviously the business community, which would be important, would also increase the activity and growth of the Hungarian economy. That is why we were extremely disappointed when we saw the amendment on the Legislative Committee, which, although it reduced or reduced the level of the bank tax, is out of the regulation this incentive system, and we heard a surprising reason - most surprisingly on the part of the Fidesz administration - because, on the basis of the Commission's informal signal, and the so-called Memorandum of Understanding - which I have not yet heard so used, that the agreement with the EBRD, which is now called a Memorandum of Understanding by the Ministry - had to be made on the basis of this amendment, which means that although the agreement was concluded in February this year, the Ministry still needed almost 10 months before it was able to deliver this law, and the European Commission indicated that the reference year could not be based on this year in such a short time; say, I do not know if this legislation had been concluded after the agreement, it could have been taken into account. Although the Secretary of State promised at the committee meeting that in the coming years, i.e. in the years 2017-18, there will be such provision for the negotiation of the spring tax package, it will be possible to use such incentives to help banks increase lending activities. I would like to highlight one more thing, coming back to this expression, this Memorandum of Understanding, this is also a completely new communication from the government, as we have known the Fidesz government in recent years as the great flagbearer of the freedom fight against banks and the bad, unfair banks are doing their best, and now we can hear that according to this Memorandum of Understanding, all regulations relating to banks will have to be agreed with the Banking Association and will be brought here to Parliament with its agreement, giving the Bank Association a right of veto. It is an absolutely amazing story that the majority of the Fidesz governor has gone through such a turn of events, and the great warrior attitude against the banks is now turning into such a compromise, so for every regulation proposed later, you will have to run to the Banking Federation for permission. I never thought that would happen. [[22.30]] And the same applies at some level to their taxing attitude towards the European Commission, because they are fighting a great deal of freedom against Brussels bureaucracy, where hidden extremist left-wing conspirators, I don't know what they usually use and sit around. Compared to that, they're informally signaling something, and you're gonna back down immediately. This is how they came to be between Brussels bureaucracy and the press of banks, and this legislation has been amended in a compromise manner, which our faction will not be able to support. I hope that there will be such provision in the next year's amendment, and then we will see if it can be supported. We won't be able to support you in this form. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-265	I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, Secretary of State, if she would like to comment on the debate now or at the end. [[Agnes Hornung says no.]] All right. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda - but there is no one to speak to, sorry. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. Then I will ask Madam Secretary again if she wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Then you have the floor.
u2015-12-14-266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond briefly to the ideas raised and briefly to what the present proposal is about. Much has just been said: informal discussions with the Commission, the provisions that are in and out of the present proposal, and the next steps that will be taken. One of the most important objectives is to ensure tax revenues, and we have started and are continuing to hold informal discussions with the Commission not only on this subject, but also on several topics before the formal request, inter alia, so that we can ensure these tax revenues on a continuous basis, which is why in this case the proposal has now been amended before it came into force, so that in 2016, as in recent years, it is possible to collect this tax revenue from financial institutions. Secondly, why the increase in lending activity has been excluded from this proposal. In the 16th year, it has come up in several circles, and several of these worrying opinions have been expressed in order to see what will happen to growth. Growth can be supported in many ways. One option is to increase lending activity. A number of factors are also available as an opportunity to increase lending activity. One of these options is to reduce the tax burden. In February 2015, this was the basis of the Memorandum of Understanding, the Memorandum of Understanding, to reduce this bank tax. This agreement, which has been signed, does not contain any condition that the bank tax reduction would be linked to an increase in lending activity. The reason why it does not include such a condition is that a reduction in the bank tax is expected to enable financial institutions to increase their lending activity as a result of this natural process, thus supporting economic growth in 2016-17. The proposal contains very briefly, as Mr President has already shown, that the bank tax base has been changed to the adjusted balance sheet total for 2009. Compared to the previous one, the key was set at a further 7 basis points reduction, thus the upper tax rate became 0.24% and the lower rate remained unchanged. With this amendment, budget revenue will be virtually the same as it would have been before, after the February agreement. This ensures that this revenue is included in the budget for everyone. We can't count on falling out of this at the moment. As has also been said, this regulation will apply for 2016, and we would like to submit the rules for 2017 in the spring budget cycle. This period can provide an opportunity to develop a regulation that is acceptable, forward-looking and flexible for all. The government continues to intend to abide by the February agreement, i.e. to continue with the curve of the bank tax reduction, this trend, and we will continue to negotiate accordingly. We would like to establish the rules for 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-267	Ladies and gentlemen, The debate is closed. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2012 CLXXXV on waste. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/7397. The Commission's non-autonomous texts can be viewed on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-268	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 CLXXXV on waste on 10 December 2015. T/7397. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report containing 21 votes in favour, 4 negative votes against and no abstentions. The amendment tabled by the Committee for Sustainable Development aims to clarify this bill on a codification basis. The bill needs to be clarified in a number of places in order to ensure that the 61/2009 on the drafting of legislation It shall comply with IRM Regulation No 1. Thus, this amending proposal is essentially intended to comply with the requirements of the drafting of legislation. However, it should be noted that this amendment creates a new, partly temporary, situation for service providers. However, there is no disadvantage for the residents of the service, and we can even say that they have a higher quality of service, since they are obviously given higher levels of service with selectivity. As of 1 January, fees will also change in a favourable way for consumers. And the difficult situation of public service providers today, which can be considered difficult and complex, will certainly be resolved by the aim of the law to clearly divide municipal and state powers. On this basis, I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-269	I will now ask the author, Mr Zsolt V. Németh, if he wishes to comment now. It says no. The position of the designated Committee for Sustainable Development can now be presented, but Mr Gábor Varga is not here at the moment, so only the minority opinion can be heard. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2015-12-14-270	Thank you very much. I am sorry that my colleague Gábor Varga cannot read the majority opinion from the Fidesz-KDNP. I'm sure he's performing an important public mission, as we can see, with the rest of the committee. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: 10:30.]] We are renegotiating the Waste Management Act at 10:30 p.m., which is almost every two weeks in Parliament. We amend this bill every two weeks. As I said at the committee meeting as a minority opinion, the problem is that this system is fundamentally wrong, and the Fidesz-KDNP government insists on a badly built system, which, by the way, they have built into this system, as it is now. [[22.40]] Unfortunately, they refuse to see and accept that this does not work, insist on this structure in a stubborn way, and refuse to listen to the opinion of the profession. We have already said several times that public service funding is in short supply of HUF 13 billion a year at the moment. The EU's obligations - which you have now confessed - regarding the selective waste collection system cannot be fulfilled at the moment and are causing losses to yourself, the state and, by the way, to all the residents involved in the services. On an annual basis, companies can lose 40 billion forints as a result of the fact that they cannot extract the useful materials of the waste, and cannot obtain any positive things from it. With a product fee of HUF 70 billion, only HUF 3.5 billion will be returned to the waste management public service system at the moment. We don't think it's the basics of the system the way you guys figured it out. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a resolution, which you can vote on tomorrow, my fellow Members. Let's hope they support it.
u2015-12-14-271	Ladies and gentlemen, A pre-notified speaker was Anita Heringes. I give you the floor. Here.
u2015-12-14-272	Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak again, because as a minority opinion, you can only say what was said at the committee meeting, but a number of things have happened since then. That is why I am pleased to say to the Secretary of State that it has its charms when, according to today's MTI communication, the Ministry of National Development is already transferring HUF 3.3 billion, which is also published in the Hungarian Gazette, so that there will be money for the holding to be voted on tomorrow. We understand it's the end of the year, and we need to put aside the money that can be spent in advance. You don't even know if you're going to vote anyway, but the NFM is already regrouping this for itself. Well, from the point of view of democracy, it has its charms. I'm glad you're so forward-looking, especially when it comes to money that can be spent at an accelerated rate. Although this amendment will only come into force on 1 April, this is their proposal, but the HUF 3.3 billion has already been transferred. As I said, for the waste management system with a HUF 13 billion annual deficit, this 3.3 billion is a charming amount. If you do not create a new holding company in which several tasks can be transferred on a voluntary basis... - although Minister Seszták at the committee meeting said that the assets are not intended to be taken away from the non-profit-based, mostly municipal-owned waste management companies, unfortunately we are not entirely sure about this either. We do not know whether the point of the game will be to make these waste companies so impossible that - in brackets and quotes - they will be able to hand over their entire assets to you on a voluntary basis. You have indeed created an unsustainable system, which the NFM has confessed in today's communication. [[Read:]] The domestic waste management public service system, in its current form, is not suitable for fulfilling the EU's obligations, does not motivate us to exploit the economic potential of exploitation and is therefore justified. I really hope that the proposal for a resolution, which I have tabled and which can be voted on tomorrow, will be discussed in a series of subjects, so that we can debate this issue in substance at all, and not just on the basis of their amendments that we believe are taking this system in the wrong direction. They are creating a non-sustainable system, and they really need to see that we can agree that this system must operate in a non-profit manner. But the fact that there is such a shortage at the moment in these often municipal-owned non-profit companies, as I said, is not a sustainable system. Several reported that they were afraid that from now on this holding would collect the money and distribute it back to these companies. The only question is that you will become a good municipal-owned company and become a bad municipal-owned company. That's a concern, because we've seen cases like this many times in your country, in order to classify local governments or companies according to what side you think they're on. And if you can put a little bit of a stamp on him that he's not 100% loyal to you, then maybe he won't get that amount of money. There are several articles about how if Budapest does not receive the right amount of money, it does not know how to take away the garbage and how it will be able to provide this system. I guess it'll come down to the point where you can hand over your assets and everything else on a voluntary basis. After the collection of the prizes will belong to this holding company, so before Christmas there are a lot of prize collectors who work in these waste management companies in the countryside at the moment, afraid of calling me on the phone, that what will happen now, they will be taken over by the holding company and they will be able to collect the prize or stay in this company, but then they will be financed from what. Because a lot of places in the country at the moment not only pay the garbage bill by cheque, but also the fee collector walks the streets on a quarterly basis and collects the fee. They have a good relationship with the population, therefore, they discuss things as they should, and often, because of their social sensitivity, they also provide spiritual support to the elderly, such as, on a quarterly basis, they open the door to the elderly who are otherwise not sure anyone else will do. Therefore, this is a big question: from now on, it will be a check only and only collected, or these people will still have a job to do, and they will have the opportunity to continue working in this sector. The problem is, we change the law every two weeks, it's never a good time to talk about it, because it's always around 10:30, 11:00, night hours. I am sorry for the Secretary of State that he can always debate this issue at this late hour with so few Members. I'm sure it's stressful for him to listen to me all the time, but I'm really going to file it until then. [[Zsolt V. Németh: Fun!]] my proposals for a decision on this issue until we can find a normal solution and create a system that is operational. I don't think you have to be stubborn. You should listen to the profession, you should listen to your own mayors, especially those who have been operating such companies for a long time and put their own money in it. Only at the moment, these municipalities can no longer add extra money to this system, since it was your government, who also significantly reduced the revenue of the municipalities. It is the mayors who no longer wish to impose any more taxes on the population, since they know best that there is no place left to take it from these people. That is why, after you transfer the collection of fees to this holding, from now on, a resident who cannot pay the garbage fare... Let us agree that unfortunately at the moment - of course not acceptablely, but that is true and I often think about it as a socially sensitive person - the payment of the garbage delivery fee will be the most backwards among the cheques or payments to be paid. I mean, most people pay what they know they're gonna turn off. And people know that if they don't have money to pay in that month, they're still gonna take the garbage away from them, so unfortunately for them, it's a lot more than that. However, as soon as the holding takes over the collection, no one will be able to decide if it will be issued for recovery. I don't know what happens then. In the case of elderly citizens and large families who have little income and are unable to pay the garbage delivery fee at the moment, a large public company from Budapest will now send it for recovery, and it will be collectible in the form of taxes, or they will immediately charge the waste transfer fee to their family home. I mean, at least until now, although I'm telling you, it's not acceptable, but regardless of the fact that the mayors and the notaries, after they knew the families and the people, tried to push me around on this thing. You guys often throw that in your eyes that it should have been released immediately for recovery. [[22.50]] There should be a system where people can pay for it, where the notary does not decide the size of a trash can for a resident, because at the moment, a lot of people have told us that it is okay that you have introduced the multi-size trash can and the price regulation of this, but in most settlements, the notary will decide for whom the trash can and not on demand. I ask you very nicely to reconsider, to accept our proposal for a resolution, to discuss this law normally once in a normal time, and then to sit here with the people who have been their mayors, and to have a substantive say on this proposal. I am sorry that I was probably the only commentary on this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-273	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Zsolt V. Németh, if he wishes to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-14-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and No, you were not the only one to comment on this amendment, because you did not comment on this amendment either, since the proposed amendment contained only codification clarifications. Obviously, however, even at this late hour, we should not ignore what you have said, which, because you often repeat them, are not yet true. In the field of waste management, systematic restructuring has been taking place for years: in the first step, Community, majority-owned companies have developed, i.e. with municipal or state majority ownership, and then a non-profit operation, and now it is time to transform the whole system itself, because a new EU programming period is underway, and obviously other development needs are raised by an idea of development in an association established in the course of the local government's bargaining process, or a concept of complex management of the entire country's waste management. None of us can say that these systems have been optimal, whether in terms of operation or development. We can show a number of developments in the country where it is on the border of two systems, in two neighbouring settlements, say, waste yard or there is a service provider that provides only four settlements, while there are hundreds of systems. I think it is therefore time that we rethink the operation of this system and transform it, and that the coordinating body itself should do so and develop a solidarity service. Obviously, the common collection and payment of the service provider's fee will serve this purpose. Let me stress that there is no danger and that the current operation does not put EU obligations in jeopardy. Hungary can hold [[Anita Beringes, showing a sheet of paper: It is literally written here!]] On a pro rata basis, it meets the expectations currently in force on the basis of the professional opinion and opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, and even the selective, separate collection system launched from 1 January has produced unexpected results; there are waste streams where there is a 140 percent increase, so it is completely unfounded that this transformation in the Hungarian waste management system is necessary because we cannot keep up with the EU's expectations. In our opinion, however, we will also keep the higher rates that have just been published. You also discussed a deficit of 13 billion dollars for 40 billion. Here, too, we think it is important to say that this 24th hour has been a very long time, that it is the end of the service providers, but this is not what we see. This is not what we see, so there are really very difficult providers, and there are others who are less in need. The tender system that is still under consideration, a specific support scheme, is also intended to help service providers, but we believe that the real transition situation will be resolved only by this law. He's talking about 40 billion, that loss because he's stuck in the waste, and I don't know what it is. This is an important professional issue. Here again, let me mention that even that is possible that 40 billion benefits are in the waste, and can only be taken out for 60 billion. Therefore, in the coming period, it is therefore our task to establish a waste management system that is cost-effective and preferably the least burdensome for landfills, so obviously we will also take into account the mixed incineration system. This matter will be decided by the government. All in all, I ask this House to support both the amendment proposal and the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-275	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. It is now up to LIII of 1995 on general rules for protecting the environment. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/7395. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey.
u2015-12-14-276	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 1 December 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1995 LIII on general rules for the protection of the environment. T/7395. Bill No. 1. During the Committee meeting, the members discussed the three-point amendment of the Committee on Sustainable Development, which was unanimously supported by 25 votes in favour. The amending proposal contains the necessary codification and grammar specifications. LIII of 1995 on general rules for the protection of the environment By amending law, municipal noise protection tasks requiring legislation are included in a law, the environmental law. The amendment also makes it clear that the Metropolitan Municipality may establish a local noise protection regulation for Margaret Island. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 25 votes in favour, i.e. by unanimity. I call for the support of this House. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-12-14-277	I will ask Mr. Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment now. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] No. We would now be presenting the position of the designated Committee for Sustainable Development, as well as the minority opinion that has been formulated, if Member Gábor Varga and Mr Sallai R. Benedek were to be here, but they are not here, so we must skip this part. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mrs Anita Heringes.
u2015-12-14-278	Thank you very much. Since we can really talk in large part about legislative harmonisation, the MSZP fraction will support the amendment proposal, as we can see the regulation of the functions of the State Secretariat for Health and the State Secretariat for the Environment in this amending proposal. So I can really confirm that we're gonna support it. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-279	The independent Members registered in advance are not present, so I ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[On the mark of Zsolt V. Németh:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-12-14-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your support, and I would like both the amendment and the bill to be supported in the decision. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[23.00]]
u2015-12-14-281	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain social, child protection, family support and other related legislation and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. Government referral T/742. The Commission's own non-Commission texts are available on Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-282	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 3 December 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/7402 on the amendment of certain social, child protection, family support and other related laws. Bill No. 1. The committee examined the bill at the meeting and found it to be in line with the requirements on certain house rules. The draft amending proposal contains proposals for amendments of 26 points in the Committee on Welfare, which include on the one hand language and codification clarifications and, on the other hand, substantive amendments. They were adopted unanimously by the Committee. Today, with 226 thousand children more eat free in Hungary than three years ago. That is, the number of children who eat free has increased from 92 thousand to 318 thousand. I cannot stress that this is a huge step forward. During the next budget year, it is one of our main objectives - which we have also supported as requested by the opposition - that during the autumn, winter and spring break, the local government ensure that the children in need are fed on all working days, of course in case of parental need. The amending proposal also clarifies the transitional provision for the amendment of the reception rules and makes it clear that support for the social sector bonus and support services and the maintenance of Community basic services are also eligible. On the other hand, the bill abolishes from 1 January 2017 the possibility of meeting the obligation to attend kindergartens in family day care, which would exceptionally be possible until 31 August 2017, if the family day care agreement on the care of the child was concluded with the parent or the legal representative by 31 December 2015. The purpose of the amendment adopted by the Committee is to keep the care of children in kindergarten on a continuous basis during the given educational year and to exclude the possibility that the parent cannot place the child in a kindergarten. On this basis, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted by Parliament, and I would point out in particular that it was adopted by the Legislative Committee in favour of 26 votes in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-14-283	I will ask Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, if you would like to comment now. [[Károly Czibere: In the end.]] At the end, all right. The position of the designated Welfare Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. A total of six minutes is available. I give the floor once again to Congressman Márius Révész, rapporteur of the People's Welfare Committee.
u2015-12-14-284	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, The Committee on Welfare also held this debate in accordance with the regulations. In the event of the adoption of the legislative package in Parliament, the Gyed extra introduced in 2014, which allows family support to be paid in addition to work, is no longer available from the age of one year, but from the age of six months, so that eligible families can earn an additional income of up to HUF 900 thousand. The income of daycare graduates may increase by 40-60 thousand forints per month from the beginning of next year, after extending the pedagogical career model to them. As in this year, family allowances in September will continue to be paid in August to help families start their school year. Children under the age of three can benefit from several kindergartens. In addition to the usual, there will be a mini, family and work nursery. So far, this form of supply has been mandatory in settlements over 10 000 inhabitants, and should the bill be adopted by the end of 2018 all settlements where more than 40 children under three years of age live or at least three families indicate their needs in this direction. Every school break from next year will require local governments to organise a daily free meal for children in need. Over the last five years, we've done a lot more than we've done in the last two decades. I have already told you that the number of free dining rooms has increased from 92,000 to 318 thousand, which is more than 90% in kindergartens and nurserys. The necessary food infrastructure must be organised by the local authorities or, where this cannot be done, food must be delivered to the families. All this is financed entirely by the government. In the event of parliamentary support for the legislative package, child welfare services will be strengthened as of January, in order to ensure that professionals learn more quickly about neglected, endangered, abused children and help as soon as possible. The Committee adopted the Commission's amendment, which closed the detailed debate, with 9 yes and 3 abstentions. My fellow Members and I voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the detailed debate, and we adopted the report on the detailed debate by 8 votes in favour, 5 against and zero abstentions. I believe that there is now a bill before this House that can be supported with a good conscience, and I believe that it will help children and help the lives of those people - I am thinking of raising salaries - who deal with children in daycare. I ask this House to vote in favour of this bill tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-12-14-285	Two speakers presented the minority opinion formulated in the committee in a total timeframe of three minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2015-12-14-286	Thank you very much. I'll try to be very short. 14 amendments were tabled by the Socialist Party at this Committee meeting. I would like to emphasise that the majority of governments have not supported any of our amendments. I would like to highlight some of this, not the need for completeness. One was the kindergarten care fee, and we tabled a motion to abolish it, and our proposal to cut the family day care fee or later in the family nursery, as I said, was not supported by the government. Deputy State Secretary Tünde Saw said that on average this award is HUF 4,700 where it exists. We are thorough people, we have looked into it at the Central Statistical Office, and we have already been able to deny that this is not the case, almost every other day's daycare centers impose such a payment obligation. And the view of the Secretary of State that this would be a symbolic contribution is not real at all. In view of the fact that, for the seventh year now, neither the family allowance nor the child has risen, I think that these few thousand forints are also very important to these people. The other such proposal was that children entitled to regular child protection benefits would receive this voucher twice a year. This has not changed since 2008, and we proposed a 50 percent increase, so we wanted to increase it to 8500 HUF. I note that they did not support our proposal to increase the family allowance by 30%. I hope that tomorrow the governing party will change its mind and support some of our proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-287	I now give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Cutter.
u2015-12-14-288	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The amendments tabled by Jobbik at that committee meeting were not supported by the Committee. I would also like to highlight some of our amendments. Two are related, and I would like to describe this together, which was that if there are certain aspects of kindergarten that give the child a free meal, it is incomprehensible to us how this changes, that if the child crosses the age of 6, or enters the primary school, he later enters the secondary school. We wanted the criteria to remain the same, because if a child at the age of five and a half justifies this discount, then these circumstances, if they remain, are justified in our view after that. [[23.10]] There are two aspects: the income situation, the per capita income in the family, and the large family existence when three or more children are raised in a family. We also had important amendments on institutional inclusion. We object to the fact that if certain circumstances make maintenance change mandatory and the institution can choose the only way to keep it alive with the maintenance change, it should not have to go through the reception procedure, but, as before the amendment, it should have this possibility for inclusion. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-289	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2015-12-14-290	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I have drawn attention to a few things regarding the Commission's minority opinion. Now, I'd like to talk about what's left out, but I'm trying to be brief. I would like to advance, Mr State Secretary, that the MSZP fraction will vote on this motion tomorrow, despite the fact that we have had a lot of objections and a lot of problems in the negotiations. One of these problems was, in our opinion, that the proposal before us is expanding the holiday meal, but unfortunately, there are several problems with the specific norm. That's what I drew attention to. The planned holiday meal is not provided for all children living in poverty, but only for some of them. I don't know why the government has chosen on this issue, because the government is cleverly using the concept of "a disadvantage" to detachment, but we know that this definition was adapted a few years ago, I think, in order to reduce the number of people in need. You, Minister of State, have recently said that 208 thousand children will also be eating on holiday. I think it's welcome, but what about the other 300,000 needy kids and the weekends? In addition, the 208 thousand people, even according to their own concept, are not so many, there are much more disadvantaged children. From a previous answer, we received 220,000 children underprivileged in primary school, plus more than 80,000 children in kindergarten, and at that time we had not talked about daycare and children under the age of three who did not attend any institution. My fellow Member at the committee meeting said that math was wrong. According to the plan, a holiday meal means one meal a day. I don't know why they don't provide three meals a day. It is worth noting that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that Hungary, our country, is today the only European country where children will surely be fed at least four times a day on state money from the age of three. Well, in connection with this, Minister János Lázár didn't say the same thing two days later, he said that from 1 January 2017 four meals a day were provided at the child's meal. According to the State Secretary's announcement, next year the government will spend only one and a half billion HUF more on all holiday meals than before. I don't know why there's no more money to feed children. The math doesn't fit here either. If we calculate the value of 4.5 billion forints spent next year on holiday meals, then it is clear that it is good if this amount is enough for 110,000 children's meals. If you really want to give 208,000 children once a day on holiday, that would require at least twice as much resources as you set up for this. According to the government's original proposal, it would be enough to provide meals for children in need during the autumn, winter and spring holidays on just two working days. Luckily, this is one of the points where the government heard the criticism, and with a Commission amendment, it was corrected. One of our main problems is that the proposal does not contain any solution for the next winter break, because the new rules must first be applied only in the spring break next year. We did not get an answer about the winter break, since one of the longest winter holidays of all time - 16 days - will be this year. My fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has repeatedly indicated and asked the government to ensure that the poor children are fed during the next winter break, which would be possible from a few billion forints, but the wallet seems to have found no source for these 16 days. Our problem is also that the proposal does not deal with children under the age of three who are not institutionalised, even though 83% do not attend any institution. We'd like to ask the Secretary of State what happens to the least needy children. The solution to the weekend meal is not included in the government's proposal at all, although Minister Zoltán Balog promised a solution in an interview. Because of the above, we have made a number of amendments, as I have mentioned, but unfortunately, they have not been adopted by the members of the Government. In another amending proposal, we indicated that the need to provide children's meals should be named in the case of a nursery at work and in the case of a family nursery. Madam State Secretary at the committee meeting said that this is, of course, mandatory, but in these forms, care is not institutional, so they disagree with our proposal. We still do not understand how it will be mandatory to fix children's meals if these two forms of services are not included in the law. According to the original proposal, municipalities will be granted an extension until 2019 to provide adequate intraday care for young children living there. We believe that adequate care should be provided as soon as possible to the tens of thousands of young children who could benefit from this measure, and that we would therefore bring it a year earlier. This would make life easier for families and help parents to work. We continue to propose that the law impose sanctions on municipalities that do not comply with their obligations. If parents require care for at least five children, or if there are more than 40 children under the age of three in the settlement, they must provide intraday care in some form. An important topic is the possibility of offering family allowances. This was not given much attention when the proposal was submitted, but later Minister Katalin Novák drew attention to it at a press conference. It's part of the law. Its essence: they allow the parent to waive the family allowance or part thereof while the parent's entitlement to the family benefit is not terminated. At the same time, Deputy State Secretary Tünde Sawz said that giving up family allowances is basically considered to be a measure that strengthens social solidarity. Honestly, I thought that was a little cynical, because I don't think that the wealthy people should be in this form of solidarity, because with the same hand that the government makes a gesture in this law, and with another, it's like it's something that the government is trying to do. He gives this opportunity to show solidarity while leaving good tax relief to the well-off people. I would like to say that the MSZP does not agree with this wording of the bill. I think that the family allowance is due to all children, the possibility of giving up care or calling for it further destroys the principle of universality, which, unfortunately, the government has already started by making care withdrawn. I didn't agree with that either, but that doesn't belong here. It is feared that the next step of the government will be the application of income deprivation, which would make the aid aid aid, along with all its disadvantages. We believe that the education and support of all children are equally important, which is expressed by the state's payment of family allowances for all children. Family allowances are also affected by the provision that they would make them systematic so that family allowances due in September will be granted to families already at the end of August. We believe that it is not necessary for families to receive the benefit in September first, because then they will not receive the support during the first month of the school year, but that there should be an additional benefit at the start of the school, so in an amending proposal we initiated a double benefit for families in September. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-14-291	I now give the floor to Congressman Cutter Sebestyén.
u2015-12-14-292	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of my speech, I would like to apologize if I sometimes get stuck talking, but I suffer from sore throats, and I find it a little difficult to speak. But I'm trying to be focused and clear. The big problem with this law is that we have another salad law before us. In the previous session, I said in the amendment of social legislation, when they had already begun to transform child welfare services at the legislative level, that it was such a big issue, and a sector within the sector, which deserved so much to be discussed in a separate legislative proposal, as a matter of fairness. [[23.20]] And not from a fair point of view, but also from a practical point of view, it deserved to be discussed separately, giving greater opportunities to discuss problems and to place amendments technically. It would also have given the opposition the opportunity to express its disapproval of this amendment. Once again, we are faced with this deceitful government trick, that it is embedded in measures that are not so desired by the profession that it is impossible to say no to, to extend children's meals, or to provide teachers' career models for daycare workers if they have a pedagogical education. I find this very unfair and unfair. Of course, in the general debate, I got that the profession was satisfied with this amendment and satisfied with the plan. In his roadshow, the Secretary of State presented the substance of the amendment to the profession, and, pardon the expression, they applauded standing up. I have also worked in the social care system, and I am well aware of the existential situation of those working in the social sphere today, and it is difficult to imagine that they can honestly and constructively engage in such a talk and then honestly express their criticism. Unfortunately, the experience tells me that, in many cases I have experienced this. Turning to our amendments, which I have already mentioned in the statement of the minority opinion, it is incomprehensible why the criteria change when the child is over the age of 6. Why don't you count the criteria for the child food benefits that you had under 6 years of age? In our amendment, we wanted to extend this to high school and elementary school children, which is a family income and per capita income in the family. The other issue is the modification of data entered in service registers. It is incomprehensible to us why the exception in old practice did not remain. And that is, if there is a maintenance change, then why do we have to go through this procedure again? Of course, I know very well what's behind this. The regulation of the church normative is changing now, and we know very well that the government wants to eliminate the problems in this regard. But we don't think that would be the way to do it. This possibility should be retained in some form. The other, by the way, I saw the same issue in the TAB amendment, and I may have inseminated the government's thoughts that something has to be changed here. Of course, I did not want such a change; this is also the issue of the European Union and other proposals on admission, so that only the proposals set out in the communication published by the Minister can be applied for in such a way as to guarantee that they can continue that activity. Why did I fertilize the government? This is also mentioned in the amendment, of course, not in the way I wanted it to be, but rather in terms of the Minister's concept, which is understandable and clear from a legal point of view, but does not solve the problem itself. I also said in the Commission's debate that I did not have time to explain in the minority opinion that the big problem with this is that this law, when it comes into force, provides the possibility that if a service provider does not function or does not work at all, it can be eliminated by a feather stroke. Why don't we give them the opportunity to apply in the hope that they can continue? In fact, they pass the test when the application period expires, and if they have normal capacity and are able to provide a sufficient number of beneficiaries, it doesn't matter what service they are dealing with, but they can provide a sufficient number of clients, why not continue if they didn't come in during a tender announced by the competent minister in a regulation? We rule out the possibility of more EU money coming into the country and spending it usefully. Because a lot of applicants can be held back. Even if you find a good tender, you think it's not worth going into such a big project, such a big enterprise, that it's uncertain whether I can continue or not after the end of the tendering period. I think life will decide, or the circumstances of the region will decide whether this service is viable or not. Let's not leave this to the minister, because he's not blessed with a gift. He may also work on the basis of statistics, but he does not provide sufficient guarantees to respond to territorial differences in such a bulletin, or even in other respects, which would fall out of the system, possibly create a service that is profitable and actually necessary. I think it is unnecessary to risk this with this measure. The other subject, our amendment, which I would like to talk about, is the question of the nursery at work. Although I was told in the Commission's debate that the law would settle this, I do not think that the law will settle this. This is about giving companies, companies, factories and employers the opportunity to operate these crèches not only in the usual working order, i.e. in the period usually 5-6 hours to 4-5 hours in the morning, but also in line with the employer's working schedule, provide child care for their employees in a working order of up to 3 shifts. By the way, I think that this should be extended to a larger age group. I live in Komárom-esztergom county, we can talk about an industrialized county, industrial parks have been created, and I know very well that in many cases single parents or even parents move from the other side of the country to have a job. And since they're separated from their family environment, they don't have relatives there, so they can't solve babysitting. There should be some kind of opportunity, some kind of straw for these companies, because although I do not sympathize too much with the multinational companies that are here in Hungary, we can admit that, as a result of their traditions, the countries to be colonised are at the forefront of CSA activity. Let us give them the opportunity to fulfill this desire for CSA activity in babysitting. I believe that if it is hidden in legislation anywhere else, and I think that this should be a priority here, and that later on, the government should think about extending this system to the higher age groups. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-293	I now give it to Congressman Márius Révész.
u2015-12-14-294	Thank you very much. I would just like to comment very briefly on this bill once again. There is an extremely positive bill before us, almost all of its elements are otherwise positive and can be agreed with. Both at committee meetings and now, if we observe, the debate is really not about the bill that has been tabled, but it is always possible to say something bigger than what the government is doing. If we propose that the support for children's meals will increase from 28 billion, say 61, to 72 billion next year, then the opposition will ask for a word and say why it has not become even bigger. If we go ahead in the field of day care for young children in nursery education, then, of course, an amendment could be tabled to make it a year earlier. I believe that I will not reveal too much of a secret when I assume that tomorrow's bill will be voted by almost the entire Parliament, since a bill has been prepared by the Secretary of State and the Ministry, which is positive for everyone. I can tell you that this summer, when we broke the record, 140,000 children were eating for free. The municipalities had to apply for it. The following year it is stated that you do not have to apply, and practically 208 thousand children eat free or eat free, otherwise not only in summer, during summer break, but also during winter break, spring break, autumn break. Progress? Progress. By the way, part of the opposition has asked very loudly for this not only to happen during the summer break and not by tender. [[23.30]] Congressman Korózs also said that children under the age of 3 are not dealt with in this bill. I think this bill will cause the biggest breakthrough in the recent period in the daily care of young children, as there has been an increase of about 30 percent in the number of nursery seats in our government period, but since we are introducing these new forms of care, this will increase even more in the coming period, and we can really make it possible that young children will not be left without care. Indeed, it is very important that family members who want to go back to work, because of this bill, will be able to do so more easily in the coming period when this comes into force. Lajos Korózs said that there may be problems during winter break. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the municipal law currently requires that the municipality take action in an emergency. In the event that there is a starving family and there is a very big problem, then the municipal task is quite clear, this family must be helped and managed by the municipality. I note only in parentheses that there are already a number of municipalities who have provided meals for children in need during the winter break or during the holidays so far. So I think that we can say the positive elements of the bill, so this will also be a very significant step forward for daycare workers, so I really think that this bill can be voted by everyone with a good conscience. 90 percent of the debate was not about this bill, but about the additional amendments that the government has now not supported in the absence of material or in a different order of importance. Let me make one more comment to my better fellow Member. To a certain extent, I fully agree with him that in the future there is a need to go further than 6 years of age, and that children's meals should be extended to elementary school students and possibly high school students. But let me tell you, at kindergarten, we got to 90 percent of the kids eating for free, by the way. We're not talking about need here by any means. This is about 90 percent of children getting a free meal. Of course, it is now possible to say that it would be good to do so at primary school, but now we have set ourselves the goal of moving forward during breaks, and in the period following that, we need to look at what opportunities we have, and in the period following that, we need to take further steps in the elementary school class as well. But I would like to underline that all children in need are eating free in elementary school. It's just that we can't raise this to 90 percent right now. Again, the cost of eating aid increased from 28 to 72 billion forints. If this were to be extended to 90 percent, this would require a very significant increase in the budget. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-295	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr for 36 seconds. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-12-14-296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll fit in. [[Defiance.]] Two simple sentences: I would like to draw the attention of ourselves and all of us to the fact that it is not by weakening concepts or by changing concepts in a bad way that we have to deal with a disadvantage. The other is what my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, spoke about. When it is stated in this draft law that settlements with a population of less than ten thousand will have to comply with the rules of procedure or meet the requirements from 2019 onwards, I say that 96 percent of municipalities do not have to comply with anything. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-297	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2015-12-14-298	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to thank you for the comments and suggestions made in the previous debate and in the current debate. I will try to summarise these very briefly and reply, although Congressman Márius Révész made it easier, because he answered and answered several of his elements directly. With regard to the eating of children, I also think that this is a very important step forward. This is not about the fact that only institutional beneficiaries under the age of 3 will benefit from it. It is important that children of 2h, 3h, are the ones who receive this, regardless of whether they have kindergarten or nursery law. I would say to Mr Korós that not only kindergarteners and day-careers will be part of it - in three years the day-careers - but also those who are not day-careers will be part of it. It's an important thing to know. Those who are wise, so children of 2h, 3h, with legal relation, are about 190,000, but since this is not just about them, the number of 208 thousand comes out. The math is also correct, as we have repeatedly counted with the staff of the Ministry of National Economy that this 4 1/2 billion will be sufficient. Two working days were not in the draft because it had to be ensured for so many days, but to ensure at least that many days. But after a number of guys said it was misinterpreted, it got out of the way. During the winter break, it is still possible to provide local authorities with this type of assistance through social catering, in accordance with Articles 7 and 62 of the Social Act. § 2 of the Act provides for the possibility to do so. The other question is: Mr Sebestyén Vácsó raised the issue of capacity regulation. This is not justified by the amendment of the church law, but by the fact that there are transfers between maintenance companies that are undesirable, they simply wish to pass them on to maintenance workers who are not professionally good or problematic. That's what we're trying to stop. It is envisaged that this extremely stringent capacity management instrument would be for a transitional period. We would really like to exclude those who do not belong there because they decredit the entire service system. In this connection, we would like to tighten up the system of capacity regulation. What you have said, Mr President, is also for this purpose by linking to European Union proposals. So not in hindsight, but in advance, be aware of whether you will be accepted or not, and apply with this in mind. Congressman Márius Révész said that the extension to elementary school is the next step, and we will look at this in the next step. That the family allowance is aid-related or that this is what the government is trying to do, I think it is not worth disproved, because it was this government in 98 that abolished the nature of the family allowance and restored its universality. I think that's a ridiculous idea. Mr Sebestyén Csító about the GyeJo roadshow: I didn't road show in September, but the professionals made a road show. I wasn't part of it. The profession itself organized this multi-station rural tour, where professionals are informed of the professional content of child welfare reform starting from 1 January. On these we have seen that the profession has supported this fundamental direction, that it is necessary to go in this direction, because this is how employees and caregivers are given extra attention and additional resources. This reduces the number of cases to 25, so they will go out to disadvantaged, vulnerable children three times a month, thus giving more attention to these disadvantaged families. This way, we will not have a fraction of the status, but we will be able to increase the number of professionals. Thus will be separated from official work and family care, supporting, assisting function. We think that these are changes that have long been demanded by the profession. It is important that disadvantaged families really receive meaningful assistance through this reform. It is true that from January onwards, in the profession itself, in the field of practice, it will be decided whether the signalling system is working, whether the cooperation between child protection and the actors of child welfare will take place. For example, tomorrow there will be a great training at the NRSR, where the head of the 198 district center will be here. That's what we're gonna tell you how to cooperate. [[23.40]] The protocols are ready, they're on my desk, and we're going to tell you exactly when to do what to do in order to give the children a substantial help when the signal comes in. Returning to the children's meal, I will conclude by saying that it is a very important proposal, a significant step forward, so that we can improve the child's meal in a way that is not applied for during the holiday, but that it will be a mandatory municipal task. I think that, finally, I would like to thank all those involved in the preparation of the proposals, in preparing the bill. I thank you, too, for your parliamentary work, and I ask you all to respect the government's work for families, the government's work for children by supporting our initiative and voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-14-299	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health and health insurance legislation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/7404. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Imre Pesti, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-12-14-300	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 3 December 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/7404 amending certain health and health insurance laws. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the 15-point amendment of the Committee on Welfare, as well as the legislative committee's 1st pro-government and 11-point proposal for its own amendment. The latter amendment was supported by 20 votes in favour and 6 against. In addition, the Committee shall be subject to Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure. It adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour, 4 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contained codification clarifications and language positioning amendments and, at point 10, the proposal aimed at resolving legislative incoherence. Part of this bill concerns the regulation of electronic cigarettes. As I mentioned at the committee meeting, in the context of electronic cigarettes, numerous uncontrolled locations are currently being placed on the market in uncertain quantities and quality of electronic cigarettes, the black market and the black trade. I believe that we must take responsibility on this issue and introduce some legislation, eliminate the chaotic condition that is harmful to health, black trade. I would also like to highlight in the context of the Fairness Drug Register: taking into account the criticisms expressed in the general debate by Jobbik's Group, a common position has been reached, which can also be assessed as a result. Dear fellow Members, It is questionable whether the e-cigarette has a role to play, whether it benefits from smoking out. Some domestic and many foreign scientific studies have not taken a clear position on this issue. I am, for my part, an active opposition to smoking, but, for professional reasons, the resolution of the market and the narrowing of the possibilities of black trade, in any case, is an unblessed situation, and I therefore consider the current regulation to be a step forward. I therefore respectfully ask Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-12-14-301	The minority opinion in the committee would have been delivered by two speakers, but they are not here, so we are skipping this part. Now I'm going to ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] Not yet. The designated People's Welfare Committee also did not present a rapporteur, so here are the speeches from its representatives. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2015-12-14-302	Thank you very much. I am sorry that the debate on this bill has come to such a late hour, because I think that, since the law on health and health insurance has been amended on several points, it would have been much better to negotiate at a time where several of our fellow Members could be here, because this is an area that affects everyone. But they must have an urgent and important public mission in the mid-mile of midnight, and the amendment of the health law is certainly not so important to them. What we have said and, unfortunately, what we have not received since then is what will be done with medicines that are eligible for fairness, and that the introduction of the new regulation, the specific budget of spending on individual equity, as it decreases, is, in your view, an increase or a decrease in the chances of recovery, because we see that if we can only give individual fairness to medicines that have already been tried on Hungarian people, this will probably not help people's recovery in this area. Why should we not accept it if it has already been tried in other countries within the European Union? We probably think that these new medicines would be equally effective in the Hungarian population, and they would have the opportunity to try medicines that are new and newly developed. The problem of electric cigarettes is also covered by the press and in many cases by us. I am very sorry that our fellow Members from Fidesz-KDNP on the People's Welfare Committee did not support the ability of the profession and professionals to speak at the committee meeting and to express their views. We have heard on several occasions that there has been social consultation, yet the professionals who have been dealing with electric cigarettes for decades now, at least a decade, are the ones who have not been asked and have not been able to speak on this issue. We are talking about the fact that from now on, e-cigarettes will be purchased only and exclusively in the trades, so at least there will be a product in the trades, because those who smoke, my friends have indicated that at the moment, if they go in, they will not find almost any goods there. The problem is that the question has been raised in many people, and that is why I am sorry that only the Secretary of State for Health is sitting here, that it is not about health. And that's why you shouldn't be defending this whole electronic cigarette issue, but those who invented the traffikmoty, because most people say that it's not about health, it's about making an economic issue out of it, so that traffickers can have even more revenue from this item. Unfortunately, we also see people who want to quit smoking at the moment using this device and then send them to the designated smoking place, where they can smoke smoke smoke as a passive smoker, and this will certainly help them to quit. We've also heard several times that it doesn't help to quit, haven't we? On the evening of this day, there was a small movement in favour of Parliament, where people who have already quit smoking tried to draw the attention of our fellow Members to the fact that they are helping to quit, as they have. Hundreds of people stood out here, alongside Parliament, trying to get their voices in here, between the walls, to hear that it is not a solution that people who want to quit smoking at the moment as Trafikmuty II, by the way, will be able to buy tobacco from people who want to quit smoking, a means to help them quit smoking, and it is not a good solution for them to smoke smoke with their fellows who are still smoking, who are going to smoke with those who are about to quit at the moment. I would just like to give you a few more details, what was said outside, and I promised the outside professionals that I would tell them: while today in Hungary the aim is to block and reduce electric cigarettes, health care in England is working to get an electric cigarette for smokers who want to quit next year. [[23.50]] It's a number, 28,000, which is the annual statistics of the victims of smoking. No one has ever died from using an electric cigarette, at least no one knows that because a person doesn't smoke nicotine, but only a mist, it doesn't cause death. By the way, we know about smoking, he's got a pretty serious death rate. Indeed, the profession is asking, and those professionals who have tried to reach you several times now and tell you their suggestions to listen to them before they decide. If you do not listen to them, several people have told you outside, they will turn to János Áder, ask for constitutional control, and they will go until they can protect their health, their own health. Please, Mr. Secretary, don't take this personally. I think we should sit here for those of you who have figured out that you have to put a lot more money in the Trafiks, and people who own the Trafiks need to fill their pockets more. That is what this proposal is about, unfortunately. Thank you.
u2015-12-14-303	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-12-14-304	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, First of all, let me start with what I think is good about this regulation, namely the IT background that the government is going towards, I think it is commendable and useful in any way, and it is even to be supported. We would encourage the government to develop this direction as much as possible, since it can specifically increase efficiency and save resources. Then I have to say that I have vowed to say, in every one of my comments, that ceterum censeo, more money must be put into health care, and also ceterum censeo, that we need a new Ministry of Health, because it is obvious that this question, compared to the social problem it poses, is lost to such a large ministry in its extremely diverse problems. I dare say this to Mr Secretary of State because I myself have worked in a ministry that has covered a lot of areas, and I know very well that, despite the greatest good intentions, it is very difficult to enforce certain sectoral, well-meaning, sectoral lobbying interests. I consider more money to be important in health care because this sector is, and I think the health politicians know it much better than I do, simply the sector that never costs less, because, thank God, the average age is growing, there are more and more elderly people, there are new procedures, new medicines, new instruments that Anita Heringes referred to as a small restriction on the use of these medicines, so there will simply be no less health care. You can be more effective, you can always spend these resources more efficiently, but, basically, without additional resources, neither you nor any other government can address this issue properly. This would also contribute to the fact that the biggest cancer you hear every day is the issue of waiting lists. I don't have an inn class, a forum somewhere where patients don't talk about it. There are statistics about this, sometimes it is horrifying to hear how long a patient has to wait for one or another examination or operation, while, if I understand the rules correctly, there will not even be a link on the OEP website that makes these waiting lists in some way comparable or give some kind of feedback, and we believe it is important that waiting lists can be reduced in any way. To have health care in Hungary that everyone in every corner of the country can get the same high-quality care regardless of their family background, regardless of where they were born, what settlement and which corner of the country they were born to. Therefore, for my part, I would recommend to the government that I know that this is not usually a great success or a very low demand, but I would say that health is a topic in which it would be worthwhile to come up with a multi-party consensus, because the problems are not created by a cycle, they cannot be solved by a cycle, so it would be worth finding some political, professional and social consensus that the current government can carry over several cycles, because then we can deal with these problems effectively. And then we'll definitely get ahead of ourselves. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2015-12-14-305	I would like to tell Mr Imre Pesti that there is no possibility of two-minute comments here. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2015-12-14-306	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, What's very interesting is that, under such a salad law, we don't go into a lot of topics except electric cigarettes. The fish reeks of its head, and they're trying to push through a law that doesn't serve the protection of non-smokers or smokers under the salad law. The amendments to the law or legislation contained in this salad law can be broadly agreed with the majority, since it brings the health system forward, facilitates the system itself, but they have tried to smuggle into it a law to protect non-smokers and children, which I believe should have been taken out, and the majority of Jobbik and opposition representatives have urged, and that is why they have submitted those amendments, whether in a paragraph or in one, to get out of it and to argue about it. It was very interesting, as my colleague said, that they did not listen to civil society organisations and interest representatives who came to the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee and could have said those opinions. They've been working in this system for ten years, decades. They were the ones who began to market them, to train people who used this method to quit smoking, and it should be stressed that, yes, no strong statistical indicator is available in Hungary at the moment, which could say that it is possible to quit, but in acquaintances and acquaintances of everyone who quit smoking by using electric cigarettes or this smoking device. There is an interesting sentence in the Preamble of the People's Welfare Committee, which I think is very instructive in the near future, and this one thing has not been applied. This is how it is said: in our work we attach particular importance to cooperation with civil and representative organisations. Unfortunately, this did not work out, since the pro-government representatives voted against the opportunity for these civil and interest groups to speak up and express their views. The letter was sent to every member of the Welfare Committee, but these, I feel, have been found deaf. I do not think that Mr Secretary of State should really go into a fight, a good amendment to the salad law, to smuggle something that is neither morally nor professionally eligible. We agree that it is not healthy, we are not saying that the e-cigarette itself is healthy, but we are saying that it has much less harmful effects than tobacco products. It's not a tobacco product. In the general debate, nicotine is harmful, and if you drop a drop on a child's hand, what dangers could there be. Well, hydrochloric acid can drop on it, too. It's very dangerous. In the same way, the majority of dishwashing detergents, if swallowed by the child, are very dangerous. But it is just as dangerous to try to get people to stop smoking, this nicotine-containing patch or chewing gum, and if the child mixes it, it is much, much more dangerous because it is not possible to control the amount of nicotine in the body. And if we're going to distance ourselves from electronic cigarettes and try to analyze smoking-like devices, we're going to tell you that there's no nicotine in it, so you can't take it as a tobacco product. It was also said here that we are forcing people who have quit smoking to smoke this electronic cigarette or smoking device where smokers also smoke. So, as you said before me, this is a passive smoking. This bill is nothing more than to bring in the 4.5, close to 5 billion forints of revenue to friends who have received tobacco concessions. I understand Members who support this, because there is not one among their family members who has a tobacco concession. But if we refer to the protection of children or to the protection of non-smokers, it can be arranged by filming the shops and specialised shops that do this, and at the very least it is seen as a whorehouse again if an Austrian or German guest comes to Hungary. [[24.00]] I've told you on several occasions that in professional stores, there are sellers who know how to use these tools, who can show you how it works, they can tell you how it works. I'm not sure the seller in the tobacco store has that kind of knowledge. In many cases, he doesn't even know the tobacco product, so he needs five minutes to find a requested tobacco product. The fact that it is uncontrollable and strengthens the black market is that if we do not bring in the tobacco, that is not true, as they are taxpayers and strengthen the state budget with their taxed forints that they pay after the sale. I think that this whole process will be uncontrollable if we only do this electronic cigarette and the imitation device in a tobacco store and they get the unidentified materials that they will then smoke from abroad. You'll probably get it cheaper, because I told you in the general debate that it really is a joke category, like when we really send the alcoholic into the pub to buy his daily mineral water and eat it there. So, in my opinion, such a regulation cannot be. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think, and we have repeatedly tabled those amendments to think about this once again, not to go into something that discriminates against people who have quit smoking with this tool to force them where they have been smoking for 3 or 4 years. I ask you, Secretary of State, to think about this, to think about it again, to chew it over, and if you could just take that out of it. Once again, the majority of this salad law itself is very good, 99 percent, this 1 percent is unacceptable in my opinion, and it cannot be mentioned on the same page as the increase in the wages of health workers, the release of overtime allowances... - and this law for the protection of smokers. So one salad law doesn't fit these two, one is a positive, the other is a completely negative. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-12-14-307	Thank you very much. Good evening. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Morning.]] As long as we don't sleep, it's not morning. We continue our work by asking if anyone else wishes to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2015-12-14-308	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, I would like to clarify what the regulation is about. This legislation is about protecting non-smokers and not smokers, these are two different categories, I think, and the thing is quite simple, because it would be about traditional tobacco products being placed in the same category with all the devices and cartridges used to simulate smoking, regardless of whether it has nicotine or not. I think that it was also very clear on our part, the opinion that it does not help quitting, that it does not change you to another instrument, because nicotine addiction will survive with e-cigarettes as well as without it, and that it was also very clear to us that the humidity that cigarettes emit is also harmful to those around them, as well as to the extent and by what means, this could be a debate. So I think that by putting regulation in the same category as traditional cigarettes both in distribution and in consumption and in advertising, I think that this is a fair story. [[Lajos Rig: The tobacco store?]] If you allow me to continue this, let me go to a part and thank you very much for Attila Mesterházy's comment, because you have highlighted a topic that I think is a symptom that I think everyone should think about, right, about waiting lists. The waiting list is a symptom that the institutional system has developed in its own interests, trying to create resources for itself. He showed himself to have a huge waiting list of over 77,000 people on this waiting list. At the time when someone finally had the courage and tried to follow up with regulation and control, it turned out that this was not the case. It turned out that it was only 44,000, and, in fact, with very few sources, we managed to get this number down to 3 billion forints now. If this should be placed in a dimension now, I suggest you consider putting on a waiting list the patient you wish to operate on in the surgical round 180,000 surgeries every year. In view of this, I think you should consider whether the 34,000 are many or few in Europe; my opinion is that there is little. I thank you for the speech, by the way, because there is obviously something to be done about health, but you have also seen that in recent years it has risen in vain, although modestly it has become a health budget, it has not been able to bring satisfaction to anyone. I think that without ordering, regulation and control, we will not be able to bring satisfaction into health care without any resources. Finally, let me add that healthcare must be maintained from Hungarian contributions to the Hungarian wages of Hungarian workers. It is in this dimension that we must think, and I believe that, yes, we will need additional resources, but only if we spend them on the health goals of the population, the Hungarian people. So I would like to thank you for the debate, I would like to thank you for your contributions, and I would like to ask this House to adopt the legislative package. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-309	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the situation of nationalities in Hungary - February 2013 - February 2015 - is now under discussion. H/772 submitted by the Judicial Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vas, if he wishes to speak now. It says no. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. More specifically, Mr. Secretary of State can tell me if you'd like to do so right now. [[Dr. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs: At the end.]] He wants it at the end, that's all. In this case, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, who in this case is the rapporteur of the designated Judicial Committee. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On 8 December 2015, the Judicial Committee, as a designated committee, discussed a proposal for a decision adopting a report on the situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary for the period from February 2013 to February 2015 and concluded that the proposal for a decision complies with Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 1 of this Article. An amending proposal was not submitted to the proposal for a decision and the Committee did not submit an amendment, so the committee closed the detailed debate on 8 December. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-12-14-311	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the opinion formulated in the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary relating to the debate is presented by two speakers within a time frame of six minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Varga Simeon, the Bulgarian ethnic advocate. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-312	Thank you, Mr. President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary negotiated on 10 November 2015 and reached a single position with 13 votes in favour and supports B/6626. on the state of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary. The government and the central administration consider the resolution of national minority policy issues as partners, since the 13 nationalities have direct parliamentary representation, so we can participate in the work of the National Assembly, and we are also involved in legislative processes by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. [[0.10]] The report before us covers all important issues in detail and in depth, including the tasks still to be resolved. During the discussion on the report, we considered it important to share our positive and practical experiences and to draw attention to the fact that there are still tasks to be solved. We, nationalities, can represent the tasks of nationality policy, their direction and their implementation efforts if we can continue to work together effectively. I think it is important to say here that the 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary create value in Hungary, and it is not to be confused with the current immigrants, as it has appeared in some media. Representation of nationalities is the cornerstone of the survival of the national community. I would like to say in brackets that on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, we thank you for the detailed and meaningful drafting of the government's report. The Committee proposes to adopt B/6626. 1 report on the situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-313	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I now give the floor to Mr. Imre Ritter, advocate of German nationality. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-314	Sehr geehter Herr Vositzender, seh geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to make this clear quickly at the beginning of the day: we did not share the 6 minutes available to our committee in order to express minority, understand, opposition after the Bulgarian advocate who spoke to me, on the contrary, I agree with what he said, I confirm that, and I would like to add further aspects of nationality. I do not want to take concrete things out of the report on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary, and I would like to point out in general and in general the significant change that, while my contributions to the previous reports in Parliament could begin by saying that, as nationalities living in Hungary, we can say that it is virtually unbiased, without any influence, that it is completely unbiased, since, although the preparation, adoption, implementation of these laws and the report drawn up by the nationalities in Hungary had little to say, it was the first report in our parliamentary activities that felt very good to read, since it was heartwarming that although the two-year period was only six to seven months in the period of the parliamentary spoke committee of Hungarian nationalities, it was still possible to feel the significant changes that had taken place in almost every part of the report. This was felt in many areas of support, in specific figures, this was felt in the expansion and strengthening of the institutional system of cultural autonomy, which was felt in the area of important legislative amendments such as the law on the rights of nationalities, the electoral law or the general government law. Overall, I would like to thank here briefly, on the one hand, the specialists involved in the preparation, the EMMI, the NGM, the Prime Minister's Office, in particular, the opposition factions, who did not bid on them during the parliamentary proceedings, did not attack them, took them out of the daily political debates; the pro-government factions and the government, with whom, at the necessary time, they were able to make concrete decisions and numerical decisions at a level with which nationalities in Hungary agreed and considered positive. I feel that the whole Hungarian policy has started two years ago on a path not only favourable to us, because these changes will not only benefit nationalities living in Hungary, but I also think that Hungary and Hungarians across the border will benefit. However, there are, of course, many tasks in this 155 - page account. I would like to highlight one of these, in the voice of thanks. The annex to this, as the government put it on the table, is that only during the two years [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 80 laws, 120 government decrees and ministerial decrees belong to the list of legislation related to nationality, so to speak, while the current parliamentary law and the decree-making house rules only include two laws and three regulations. This will be a good basis for us to start our work next year with this change. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-12-14-315	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. No two-minute comments are possible. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki, MSZP, here.
u2015-12-14-316	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that it is possible to agree with Mr Ritter Imre on a lot of things, because there are indeed positive steps in this proposal, but the Hungarian Socialist Party, and I myself, must list a lot of comments that I do not agree with. For example, the electoral law was not synchronized with census data, which I have already indicated in the past. It's very strange that the census data you asked me about two years ago was created by the law. I think there's no way you can accept something like this with a good heart, so the electoral law doesn't synchronize with census data. Therefore, I think that there are two things that could be said for this. The fact that there is indeed an increase in the source, but we do not see the part of it that would provide the possibility of spending money for local authorities, its operating budget, nor have we seen any change in the operating budget of local authorities. We see that the national government, and in this case I am thinking primarily of the National Roma Municipality, can see that there has been an increase in funds, but I would also like to point out here to Mr Secretary of State, even if this is not his specialty, but one of the members of the government is that the abuses that were, either in connection with the programme called "The Bridge to Work" or with any other program that could be heard around the National Roma Municipality, we do not really see the reaction that the government really wants to stop the process that it sees around the National Roma Municipality, or has seen in the last year, what the Farkas Florians have done in the National Roma Municipality. As a result, I think that the financial squandering that took place there must be answered by the Hungarian population and society. If this does not have any consequences, and of course we do not want nothing to happen, it should be, but we must investigate this case, because the Hungarian people believe so. The other part, I think, is that part of the report, which is mainly about Roma education, health care and employment, we didn't really know what to do with that. Not because they do not restore the 18-year-old obligation, because we would consider it very important, especially for disadvantaged people, for the poor, and for the Roma, that the age limit would be 18, because then it would give much more opportunities to stay in the school system. This was not tried to be dealt with in 2014 either, nor have they tried to rethink this issue this year, even though I think it would be very important for you to rethink it anyway. Health care, since it's your territory, a few things. Almost 120,000 Roma people live in extreme poverty, which means that these people live in Gypsy settlements, some 650 Gypsy settlements. This issue is not addressed, not only is the issue of prevention not being dealt with, but there are also problems with basic care at all. There are areas where there are no general practitioners. What does the government want to do with this question? Because 120,000 people, if you like, have been given up in the last few years, and I think you can't give up a single person because you said you wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road, so I'm asking you not to leave the 120,000 ruins that live in extreme poverty. [[0.20]] As a result, employment cannot be successful either. Let us think further: if your housing situation is not resolved, it is very difficult for them to go elsewhere than to do the public employment that you, by the way, manage well. However, there is no way forward for people in public employment. Of course, this does not mean that we do not think this public employment is good for a certain period of time, but it is certainly not in the long term, as you have done in the past, it cannot be represented well and should not be represented. From then on, there is no way out of this opportunity for these people to move towards permanent employment or vocational training. As a result, we do not see the financial operating budgets of either health care, housing or municipalities as well as sound in the report that we can see. Therefore, I think it is certainly very difficult to deal with this issue by saying that we can support it. Despite the fact that we are seeing a positive step in these programmes, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-317	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2015-12-14-318	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that I would comment on this debate - and in this I ask for the understanding of minority advocates - because, as secretary of state, I used to oversee this area a long time ago, and our cooperation with all the minorities was very excellent. Allow me to thank you now, we have always been able to resolve problems in a very fair way, even if you have learned that there are smaller communities, there are bigger ones and sometimes they have different problems, and sometimes it is difficult to coordinate this. In addition, of course, there is the Roma minority, which in many cases has completely different problems, and my colleague László Teleki has also spoken about this. I simply asked for the floor because on one side it is a saving thing that there are higher resources for culture, education or the preservation and financing of minority media. This is always good news, because it is good for a state to be able to contribute to the preservation of the culture of its minorities, to its educational activities, and to promote this in various publications. So if we were just talking about this, the MSZP fraction would also be very respectful of this proposal. In which I ask you to understand the advocates, and understand that this is not about you, nor about the report, nor about the content we have just heard from you, but we do need to indicate that there is a local government, the National Roma Municipality, where things have happened that are unprecedented. Under these circumstances, it is not possible to say for such a report that everything is all right. Even if Viktor Orbán defends Florian Farkas at the Fidesz Congress and says that he is the untouchable man, he cannot be touched, everyone understands, he knows precisely that Florian Farkas will not be harmed, because if someone keeps his mouth shut in Fidesz, then there is no problem, then we will protect whatever he has stolen or used back with his power. Therefore, there is a special situation that, although the report could be supported in terms of the positives you have said, we cannot support it. I may ask you to understand, not even to accept our position, but to understand that because of this huge scandal, where billions of taxpayers' money were taken uncounted, where such a thing could happen, and there is no consequence in this country, we cannot support such a report there, just that we somehow draw attention to the fact that there is something very wrong here. I wanted to say this because it's not about you, it's not about your community, it's about the Roma people, it's about the group of thieves who take money from the people that László Teleki talked about. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-319	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament!
u2015-12-14-320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to finish with three simple sentences. I will not repeat what Attila Mesterházy said, but I will confirm it. Unacceptable. And we have to ask the members of the government, Mr. Wolf, and everyone else who manages these funds, if that's okay. We don't think so. Another part of the story is that at the time, in 2011, the census produced rather interesting series of data. Eight and a half million people have said that they claim to be Hungarians, so they are Hungarians. 315,000 people claimed to be gypsies, by the way, 644 thousand people said that they belonged to some kind of nationality, the Germans were still 185 thousand at the time. Half of those who claim to be nationalities were gypsies. So I'd like to add one sentence to that. I see that the biggest problem is in terms of providing tangible help, so that learning and knowledge can get in the head, because there is no other way to live a normal life. That's where I need all the help I can think of. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-321	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'll ask the Secretary of State if he has anything to say on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2015-12-14-322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to engage in an actual policy, as this is a report. I would like to ask that we deal with the content of the report, and it was quite clear, I think, in what proportion the report was adopted, and I would like to insist on that. What I'm supposed to be talking about is health care. In this regard, I can tell you that, yes, there are places where a general practitioner has not been employed in a long time, and I do not deny that. However, this year more than 80 such practices have been sold thanks to the fact that we have been able to support them with loan and support. So I hope that there will be fewer and fewer such places, but we still have work to do in this. Nevertheless, I would like to ask that this report be supported by this House. Thank you very much.
u2015-12-14-323	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm asking the author... [[Dr. Vas Imre says yes.]] Congressman Vas Imre, please.
u2015-12-14-324	Thank you very much for the floor. The debate should now be about the report of the Justice Committee and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. Both committees concluded that the proposal for a decision complies with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and no one had any objections to that. So from here, I would like to thank the staff of the various ministries who have prepared the report, the report, the sacrifice. I thank all the ethnic advocates who have given their support to this report and I ask everyone to support the adoption of the proposal for a decision tomorrow. Thank you for listening.
u2015-12-14-325	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting, which, of course, should be understood as a calendar for today, but as I have already said, until we sleep, there is no tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. János Fuzik, Speaker of Slovak Nationalities, applied for a post-meeting speech: he will meet you in trouble with the title of a good friend. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-326	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members of Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Indeed, we have not slept yet, but since it is past midnight, I would like to modify the introduction that today, on 15 December, the joint training of the forces of the Visegrád countries is scheduled to end, which was named Balaton 2015. Its aim is to prepare for the challenges of the migrant crisis through military reconnaissance, logistics and communications experts and psychologists. The Czech and Slovak armies sent 21-21 experts to the two-month joint exercise, and the Poles conducted special techniques and staff for training in Kaposvár, Nagykanizsa and Hódmezővásárhely. Soldiers didn't take part in direct border surveillance. This was indeed the second element of the unparalleled cooperation of our Visegrád countries. On 20 October, 50 Slovak policemen left Bratislava with 17 SUVs, a bus and personal equipment to carry out border guard service in the Szeged area at the Hungarian-Serbian state border for a month. [[0.30]] After ten days, a group of Czech policemen of 50 arrived, and a week later, on 7 November, the Polish border guard unit of 43 people, specially trained with the right equipment, arrived. When the Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico said goodbye to the Slovak police in Bratislava in October, he emphasized, among other things, that, in cooperation with the Hungarians, the Czechs and the Poles, we show that we are able to defend the Schengen borders. Of course, Hungary has taken the decisive step with the technical closure at the southern end in order to protect the country against the uncontrolled and uncontrollable flood of migrants. But the fence needs a man, and they're there. In addition to the Hungarian police officers on duty since the early spring, Czech, Slovak colleagues and Polish border guards are now also present. I visited them at the end of November in Szeged and the border. By then, the second tour of Slovakia served at the border. Like the first, Hungarian speakers were selected for the mission. I was talking to people from Rozsnyo, capital fields, Komárom and Dunaszerdahely. They said that with the Slovak language - which we Hungarian Slovaks proudly profess to be the Esperanto of the Slavic languages - they often interpret among the Hungarian, Polish and Czech members of mixed patrols in Slovak and Hungarian. Everyone is serving in their own uniform and with their own weapon, but our V4 armbands are also worn by our Visegrád comrades, bordered by European Union stars and national flags from the four countries. The migrants also try to cut wire on the double fence, but with little success. Nevertheless, all those involved in the surveillance mission consider it very useful, a real practice that is excellently prepared for allied, comrade-in-arms unity. Indeed, the ministry is hard, there is no formality, no symbolic help. Thousands of hours of service were completed in the rain and chilly cold at the border, with which our domestic police officers were significantly relieved. Several now, at this late hour, are on the frozen ground at the border along the fence. Trusting that they can spend Christmas holidays at home with their families. Czechs, Poles and Slovaks. True friends in trouble. Thank you for that. And thank you for listening.
u2015-12-14-327	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech: they passed the exam - or a few words about the constant fear of railway passengers. Here you go.
u2015-12-14-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, More than 30,000 railwaymen, responsible for the travel, safety of almost 150 million passengers each year and for almost one fifth of the cargo transported in our country, are suffering from complaints and bitterness. Since the Hungarian infrastructure consists not only of the Hungarian public relations lines with modern trains renovated by a series of amazing anomalies, which are expensive and sometimes amazing, it is safe to say that these are the people who keep the domestic railway together in the winter, and in the summer they keep it together and operate safely. Many are no longer complaining of low wages or not very bright working conditions, but of any humane and unreasonable examination system. In the next few minutes, I would like to share some thoughts on this with my fellow Members. Of course, everyone agrees that rail is an extremely dangerous plant, where maximum efforts must be made to comply with the rules, and the knowledge of these must be regularly reported by workers. However, what the Institute of Transport Science, which is responsible for the examination and which covers the EU directives, is doing in this case is far from that. Therefore, workers in constant fear have a right to feel that they are in over their heads. Of course, the troubles didn't just start. The foundation of all problems is that the high-quality national network of the MÁV, which teaches dedicated railroads, has been reduced to a tenth of the world's ever 29 workshops, has been fragmented. In other words, the entire training system has been completed. Excuse me, obviously when their liquidation took place, the authorities must have formulated a way of rationalizing the structure. But let's get back to the present. It is nonsense, however, that the 1500 pages, 80 percent theoretical material, of the ultimate law-centred examination material, have resulted in a higher rate of failure than, let's say, at the Department of Nuclear Physics of ELTE. After all, one person out of 40 can pass the exam only the first time, and many can't even pass the third time. Thus, because of the constant existential threat, the stomach tightness of nerves is perpetuated, because there really is a stake here. However, continued stress must not have a positive impact on work. But it also deters potential workers and applicants, so it is no wonder that the shortage of professionals in the MÁV is becoming increasingly serious. But what do you care about the smart guys from behind the desk or the soft back seats of the corporate cars? The trade unions therefore rightly demand greater empathy and full reform of the examination system. The complainant's letters to Jobbik also require the return of the previous human-centred examination and targeted accountability. Let me quote some of these letters. A long time ago, the examiners put more emphasis on the knowledge of the peculiarities of the place of service than the lexical knowledge. In addition to general information, everyone was asked about things related to their own work, because it mattered how well they knew the rules needed for safe work. On the other hand, the current multi-choice test system is based on memorized, mechanical, non-practical lexical knowledge, which is based on the whole material per job. This is confirmed by another railwayman. By the end of 2013, our regional examiners had to give an account of our knowledge. When we gave an account of our knowledge in front of the local examiner, we could expect questions about local peculiarities, and these were the answers to the huge information you had in mind. Now that the central people are taking the exam, not just the local things come up, but anything from that... 1500 pages and the entire national network. It is also a legitimate point that they may not want so many people for a reason, let us, on behalf of Jobbik, add. The current state of affairs and examination schedule is another problem ahead of us. If the MÁV continues in this way, the services ordered by the State cannot be satisfied, therefore, sidelines should be broken down, and a significant proportion of the currently active labour force that is so to say redundant will have to be transferred to the main lines and to Budapest and its surroundings. So it could continue to disintegrate the countryside. And with the face towards the railway, the slogan can be replaced with the, with the back to the railway slogan. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-12-14-329	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 10:38 p.m.]]
