u2015-09-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome my fellow Members here. The 3rd day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we will start our work with speeches before the agenda; then from noon to 2:30 p.m. on the questions, and then around 3:00 p.m. on the agenda. The hour of immediate questions and answers will take place from 2 to 3.30 a.m.; finally, the Parliament's work will be completed with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, spoke with the title "The Land Privatization must now be stopped." You have the floor, dear Congresswoman.
u2015-09-28-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am speaking before you today because I would like to make a request for you. I ask the government, and I specifically ask the Prime Minister, who signed the Government decision on the sale of land to change your mind. Think about it and withdraw your decision to sell 380,000 acres of state land in just a few months. The Members of the LMP have no Molinos now, and I have no megaphones in my hand or under the bench, but we are preparing for the protest. On 5 October, we will be holding a demonstration with a halfway roadblock across the country, but I would like to take advantage of the last moments, and I would like to convince you that you are preparing for an infinitely wrong step, and I would also like to remind you that you still have the opportunity to change your mind. You know, I am aware - that is exactly what the last few years have shown - that the debates in Parliament are not at all for you to hear what the opposition is saying or anyone else is saying. Unfortunately, I must admit that in recent years, you have shown little willingness to come to your senses. However, we are talking about a case that is too precious to have the principle of who will be defeated. There's no room for tactics here, there's only room for very clear positions here. In addition, I think that even a government must be able to correct its own faulty decisions and that the opposition must be able not to be triangulated by the fact that the governing parties are taking back and not making a bad decision. Dear Parliament, We have many reasons to tell you that this is an infinitely wrong decision, and you are about to make a decision that will undermine the future of Hungary in the long term. We do not agree at all with the arguments that you bring up in favour of land privatisation. Our experience throughout Hungary is that what happened in rural areas and land, at least doesn't justify the arguments you bring up. There is a reason to fear that not farmers who can base Hungary's future and the future of the countryside will benefit, but farmers who are politically closer to those who want to distribute here. We also propose and ask for the withdrawal of the decision because it would be necessary for the government to make up for the missed consultation. Please, Mr. Secretary of State - I assume you will answer me - don't mention Magos to me. Discussing land privatisation with them is obviously not enough, and you know it in your soul, and we all know it. Nor do we consider it appropriate nor do we understand the real reason why they did not dare to bring this proposal to Parliament. I cannot imagine any other explanation than that Fidesz-KDNP is practically afraid of its own representatives, because we are thinking people, and we can clearly see that there are topics that would be too divisive even in their own home. It would be important for the Parliament as a whole to be able to talk about this issue. It is important that the fate of the Hungarian treasure is not decided by just one signature. Moreover, it is important to consider this decision more thoroughly and with greater publicity because it is clear that the land programme you started in 2011 did not create more jobs in the countryside or even reduce the number of existing ones. This is a huge problem. This is a huge problem, because it shows in itself that you have had the opposite effect of what you have communicated and what you have intended, at least as far as you can hear. This land-privatisation, which you are preparing for, is bad for the Hungarian countryside, and it is bad for small settlements as well. What is needed is to remedy the land shortages of small settlements and small towns with public lands, and that is what the LMP would like to achieve instead of what the government is now preparing for, which is nothing more than a ground-privatisation. However, it is important to know that this is not just a matter of the countryside, and it is not just a matter of Hungarian farmers. Indirectly, the fate of the whole country is affected by the decision you have made and what you will implement if you do not come to a better understanding. At the same time, to withdraw from a wrong decision, I think it always means less loss than to rush forward in the wrong direction stubbornly and without consideration, the sooner they correct me, the less the loss will be. We ask you to reconsider at least once, because the power, the opportunity to make a decision, may not be the truth. A lot of people say and think, and they don't necessarily think, that it's a shame to try, and you'll never see it coming. However, we have an obligation to attempt to give you an opportunity to do the opposite before taking the road with the farmers on October 5th. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To protest against a wrong decision and a completely incomprehensible stubbornness.
u2015-09-28-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Márton Bitay responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your speech before the agenda. I have more opportunities to try to clarify misunderstandings, or at least to clarify the intention. First of all, why does the Government support it or why it calls for it, and the Congresswoman asked me not to mention the Magos. All right, I'm not going to mention Magos, but I'm going to mention the over 7,000 land purchase requests that have been received by the National Earth Fund since 2010; we've already completed almost 4,000 since 1 January 2014. There is a procedure in this regard that allows public land to be sold. I hope that you do not seriously believe that it is not a real need for farmers to want to buy these areas. In addition, the law allows this to happen. Here I would like to turn to your observation that there was no discussion or discussion about this. In the previous cycle, when the National Earth Fund Act was adopted, a two-thirds part of it is regulated on how to use state land. For this two-thirds part - 18. §, but this is irrelevant - the first chapter is about how it can be sold. [[11.10]] At the time there was no political debate, a professional debate was held by the Parliament - I had not been there at the time - and then the LMP and Jobbik's faction voted in favour of this proposal. So I do not understand why they say that there was no parliamentary debate on this; there was a detailed, long parliamentary debate on this. In the portfolio for sale - of course we will see how much of this will be sold - we are talking about about 50,000 local map numbers and plowers only. Out of the 50,000 landmarks, 41,000 landmarks are under 10 hectares, only plowers. I don't understand, I really don't understand, and let's really talk more about this then, why we think that plowers under 10 hectares in state ownership will bring greater benefits to the Hungarian nation than if we offered to the local farmers to buy it. I don't want to impose privatization as a word. I understand the political intention, but this is not a privatisation, but it is the rules of the Land Traffic Act that those who do so can buy; it is not a tender, it is not a scoring, it is not a system of criticism, it is a legal condition and it is a bid, so who offers the most for this area, so privatisation has nothing to do with it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some of these lands - typically what we rented after 2010 - are cultivated by local farmers. In addition, land leased before 2010, which is also affected by this programme, was privatised by state economic companies, received land use rights, and these companies continue to rent these land. You always say that we should support really small and medium-sized family economies. Now the government says that it is okay, then we also offer the land used by large state farms - I do not want to be incorrect, there is a period after 2010 - to the family farms, the residents of the area, to buy it. And when we say that, you stand up and say, well, it's untenable, why it doesn't remain state-owned. I think it is a good decision, however, if I do not say that tens of thousands or tens of thousands of hectares of land are rented, but that I say that there is an order to those who comply with the law, and that those who give the most money can buy them. We always talk side by side about jobs, and I'm assuming you know exactly what it is. Most of the winners of the programme for the farmers took possession of the land in 2014, and it hasn't been in possession of it for a year. Asking him how much he's increased the number of jobs in the country in a year... I don't understand why you're trying to force this to look like it now. But one thing is certain: in 2010, 600 people used these lands, and now more than 7500 people use them, so at least there is a strong tenfolding in the number of users. If I add what kind of rural capacity this programme could have - you're right that we don't see it everywhere yet - then I think it's a really good program: it can be bought at an open auction under legal conditions. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] These areas. And I would like to emphasise once again: 41,000 of the 50,000 local map numbers [[The president's ringing again.]] It's a plough under 10 acres. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Bitay. Dear Parliament, Member Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is in a lucky position because of a reduction in the import prices of energy sources. The government is in a lucky position because it has not had to face four to five increases in energy prices since 2010; it did not have to watch the oil price rise from $20 to $100, and the import price of natural gas increased from $100 to $400 per thousand cubic metre, as it did between 2002 and 2010. On the other hand, in recent years regional oil and gas prices have declined more slowly and rapidly and are still decreasing. One year ago, we had to pay $360 per thousand cubic meters for Russian gas imports, this February only $260, currently $2 245, and it is reported that this price will fall to $223 from 1 October, and even industry analysts believe that oil and gas prices will continue to decrease in a reasonable time. These figures are well known by the government, as Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó has already spoken about this, Ms Lászlóné Németh spoke about this, but she also acknowledged the significant reduction in procurement costs by Minister Miklós Seszták. So these are great news in themselves. The problem is that we consumers feel nothing of this: our account has not been reduced for a year and a half, despite the fact that the price of imported natural gas is 35-40 percent cheaper. There are many questions about this, on the one hand, why ordinary people's accounts are not falling. Where's the energy department at this hour? Where's the Minister of Price Control at this hour? Where's the Fidesz regulator at this hour? On the other hand, the question is where will the tens of billions collected unnecessarily at the price of gas be? Secretary of State Lászlóné Németh told us in a background discussion: the Hungarian Electricity Works is the black hole, where such a large amount of money can simply disappear; obviously, they want to pay the tens of millions of corporate salaries because the managers deserve it, and because they obviously lack two million forints a month. Of course, this is how Árpád Habony and Andy Vajna pay for their media interests; it is understandable that they all need support. And obviously you can also get further support for MET Zrt. with the owners of close friendly and business relations with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. This would not be the first, since for years the Hungarian Electricity Works have helped the Hungarian market with the gas of MET at a price of at least 10 percent above what is necessary - but I will talk about it longer in a later period - or they will want to help the new national utility provider, which was deemed to be loss-making. You're starting to be nonprofit, but you're not going to make a profit, and now you're going to have to face serious losses. We must put an end to this, fellow Members. The decrease in import prices makes it possible and people's living conditions make it necessary to lower prices to the general public. It is in all our interests that the reduction in energy prices goes all the way to consumers and that is not hindered by the government, so we want to reduce the natural gas bill for ordinary people. We want no family to pay more for the natural gas than it costs. We want them not to collect the ten million-dollar raises of the state's executives in the gas bill. We want them to give the people what they deserve. [[11.20]] To this end, we submitted a bill to Parliament more than a month ago, which would require a 20% reduction in gas prices up to the average consumption. At the same time, you have not even been willing to negotiate this. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to reduce prices, there is no need to amend legislation, it is sufficient to amend a ministerial decree. Here I call on Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, to reduce public energy prices from 1 October, so that people really pay for services on the basis of costs. That would be fair. I call on the Government, ladies and gentlemen, not to reserve this money for elections. This money's there, it's there. According to analysts, the energy price on the international market will continue to decline, give it to the people now, from 1 October, because what is due is due. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-28-6	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The daily costs of Hungarian families and the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy are more important than making it the subject of a political attack in front of a daily agenda that you intend to update. It is possible to express your nostalgia for the years 2002-2010 here, but to explain to the Hungarian population why prices were increased at that time, and why prices were reduced after 2010, there is no practical explanation in this way. At the time there was, there is, there is, there was, there is, it is the responsibility and responsibility of the government at the time to handle them properly. I suppose you do not dispute that the reduction of household costs and the reduction of household costs over the past period were decisive for the everyday life of Hungarian families. I suppose you don't dispute that this obviously has a social impact that you, you don't appreciate, because you consider it to be politically detrimental to you. It was politically disadvantageous for you, but beneficial for the everyday life of Hungarian families. So what I can basically answer to is that what is good for Hungarian families is a good government attitude and action, which is detrimental, and that is not good. As far as the current situation is concerned: allow me to say something here again, in which, in the last ten or so years, there has actually been consensus in the Hungarian Parliament. In particular, households, but I would add that in the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, the basic costs of electricity, and the price of energy in particular, are crucial issues. But in addition to prices, security of supply is crucial, accessibility is decisive, the reduction of decades of import dependency is decisive, and, of course, fees are decisive. There are several sources of reductions in fees. Source among other things - I think this is not a debate between us - is the purchase price, one of the possible sources is obviously the date of purchase, because energy, primarily gas and oil, has seasonal prices, and then there is or does not exist the necessary storage capacity. I just want to remind you that over the last half decade, we have also made progress in this, which alone increases security of supply. I do not think that the issue raised by you should be the subject of the natural struggle of daily politics in this place. This is a decisive task for the whole country, the Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy. I am convinced that Hungarian consumers, Hungarian individual and domestic consumers, if you like, universal consumers and Hungarian industrial consumers, are aware of the possibility that the Orbán government has given them in recent years by reducing their costs - this has also been shown in the votes, and I do not hide this for a moment - and I believe that this will remain an area of rightful attention and needing substantive measures in the coming years. Such a substantial step is the National Public Service Provider, such a step is the inclusion, retention and management of the whole in the national competence circle. I'm asking you to agree on that. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-09-28-9	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to talk about not an economic issue, but a social issue, so I could say that it is a national issue, because it is about the willingness of Hungarian society to help Hungarian people. Now that we are dealing with the migrant flood, many oppose each other's credible ecclesiastical revelations about helping refugees and the behaviour of responsible politicians who defend their country and the future of their citizens. Let's be clear. For example, when the pope speaks in this matter, he does so as a pastor, and it is always about the individual. When the politician protects his community, his country, he protects him against the masses and acts like a politician. The two are on different levels, but they don't contradict each other. I do not want to talk about the latter, about political protection, about this only one sentence: nothing is lost in Central Europe, there is hope here, it is worth working here. This is what is happening in Hungary today. This is more difficult for Western Europe to say. But let's look at the other question. Hungarian people are sensitive to the suffering of another person. When we want to define our responsibility, our responsibility to the other person, the Christian teaching describes this task in concentric circles, this responsibility. The innermost circle is obviously about our closest family. And then the next round about our environment, and then the nation, and somewhere on the edge, there's all the people we can get in any relationship with. And if we start here on the edge, we have to say that immigrants are people, individuals, and they also have individual problems and sufferings. If one cooperates, the state will provide him with the help he needs for a decent life, providing them with accommodation, food, thorough and decent medical care. And let's add that the daily care of an immigrant costs the country 4300 forints. So the state does what one has to do. But what about people who just come in through the green line? The sensitivity of the Hungarian people, individuals and organizations to a cold, hungry person appears there: the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, the Charity, the Ecumenical Aid Organization, and the Red Cross. But I think that real sensitivity is seen in the Western world by creating peace in their homeland and helping immigrants to return home. That's the real sensitivity to them. [[11.30]] But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to look a little further. Let's go beyond our own borders, and let's not just deal with those coming in there. The sensitivity of the Hungarian people was also shown in helping Hungarians across the border, first the Transylvanians, when this was needed, then the Transcarpathians. And that obligation hasn't passed yet. So when we talk about this issue, this responsibility, let us take a look at a closer circle of concentric circles, and this is the circle of people of the nation. And if I have already mentioned Transcarpathia, I believe that Mr Secretary of State will say something in his reply, let me point out that this problem has not been resolved. There is a crisis in Ukraine, an economic, social and moral crisis, and in this situation the Hungarians living there and all other nationalities face serious difficulties. Thank you to all the people and organizations in the motherland who felt and helped them. But let me draw attention to the fact that this task and this responsibility are still valid today, we also have a task for Hungarians living outside the border. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-09-28-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I believe that both the Hungarian state organisation and the Hungarian civilians, the Hungarian charities, have performed beyond their powers over the last few months, and we have succeeded in making a joint effort not to create a humanitarian disaster at the southern border of Hungary. Thank you to all those involved in this work. Months ago, when this huge flood of immigrants started, the Charity Council was convened and the work of the organisations here was coordinated so that each of us could do their own work as much as possible territorially as possible, by handing out tasks. I think that went well, because the charities were able to cooperate well with each other. Obviously, they could expect not only coordination, but also financial support, not only in the fact that in the last five years, public support for charitable organisations has doubled, which they receive from the budget in a stable manner every year, but also by three priority organisations, organisations that have partner organisations on the Serbian side, so that they can help to provide immigrants on both sides, they have received an extra HUF 200 million. This is the Red Cross, the Maltese Charity Service and the Hungarian Ecumenical Aid Organization. They are the ones who have recently signed this grant agreement, and I trust that they will soon have in their accounts the first instalment of the amount that will enable them to continue this humanitarian work. There is a huge load in Hungary, as we have read in the news, 270 thousand people have arrived in Hungary through the green border, this is much bigger than the population of the largest rural town, Debrecen, and Hungary had to provide a crowd greater than a debrecen crowd. In this, I think it was an important contribution either symbolic and important when the Prime Minister himself received representatives of charitable organisations, or when his wife herself visited a reception centre and carried donations. We must say that immigrants are safer in Hungary than in many Western European cities, as we hear every day about how they burn or destroy or attack buildings for the reception of immigrants in Germany or Switzerland. There were no examples of this in Hungary, but there were examples of many helping them themselves. If I look only at the August figures of the state's ability to provide care, then beyond the statutory ones, so that they can travel to the reception centre free of charge, that they get accommodation, that they get cleaning facilities, that they get several meals a day, the numbers of which may well show the size of this task. In August alone, 660 thousand sandwiches were distributed by the employees of the HAC, 18 500 kilos of bread, 3700 kilos of cut, 22,000 cans, 2 thousand kilos of fruit, or over half a million bottles of mineral water for the arrivals. As you said, Mr. Group Leader, the Hungarian state spends 4300 forints on an immigrant one day, while the minimum wage per day is 3500 forints, and there are many people in Hungary who have to live on it, and they have to sustain themselves. They can also benefit from epidemic care, but we have to say that only 5 percent of immigrants are unfortunately involved. There are two sides to cooperation, we provide health care free of charge, but they need to be used to ensure that there is no epidemiological risk within Europe. This is at risk level in Hungary, not at risk level. We provide special care for children. Yesterday Minister Zoltán Balog also visited the Fót children's home for minors. Here, too, we redistributed hundreds of millions of HUF from central budget resources to provide the right conditions. Here, not only do they pay attention to educators who speak their language, but also to the fact that, if, as a result of tribal conflicts, some minors refuse to sleep in the same room with other minors, they are given a separate room so that there is no conflict. But you could say numbers here, like the number of children's food packages, 2886, the distribution of 1376 baby food by the D.A., 200 kilos of biscuits or 58 kilos of baby cake. There's a lot of numbers to say. However, I would like to mention what Mr President pointed out at the end of his speech that it is equally important to deal with Transcarpathian Hungarians. I mean, they're not in a better position this winter than they were last winter. This week's meeting of the Charity Council therefore includes the support of Transcarpathian Hungarians. As is well known, in recent years, the government has decided to take over the costs of eating children in schools and to spend budget items supplementing the wages of teachers. We support family support there by HUF 85 million from the spring of 2015, but I believe that further civilian and government assistance will be needed in the future. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-13	Mr President, Dear House, Hungary is under a two-way tension, which we have been debating for weeks and months. One of them is an outside where this country has proven that if there is a physical border lock and there is human resources to support and protect it, then the security of our borders can indeed be guaranteed. In these days, we see, in the Croatian border section, that if this physical border lock is missing or there is a shortage of human resources, then the flood cannot be effectively blocked. But beyond the fence, there is also a gap between us, the government and Jobbik's thinking. After all, last week at a conference where I had the opportunity to attend, Zsolt Németh, on behalf of the governing parties, said that if a European quota-like solution was reached, the government would definitely respect it. So, in fact, we are seeing a capitulation without an attempt to debate, regardless of the fact that you are looking at some international courts here. We would expect much tougher, much more masculine behavior. Just because we believe and assume that the government could have made a kind of back-up deal with the European Union, according to which the quota-like solution is, say, 1000-1200, and then, obviously, a lot more people will be sent back here later, this may, in the eyes of the government, mean a more manageable amount of people than the tens of thousands of people we are facing today. So the idea of such a backup deal is not far from reality. It would be nice to clarify whether this happened or not. At the same time, Jobbik's position is clear, neither repatriated nor quota-like, and we will do everything we can to prevent it. The gap between us clearly proves that this year the number of deportees who have been welcomed by the Orbán government is climbing to a thousand. The multi-hundreds are crawling slowly up. And obviously it is not just German press reports that we should start with, when we strongly assume that in the following year we will have to expect thousands or even tens of thousands of deportations. And if that happens, what can wait for Hungary and what awaits us? It is clear that in the unguarded institutions here, the procedures from which those affected are either escaping, say, going back to Germany, creating a specific form of European migration, or being stranded in Hungary. You will not be able to deport them in bulk towards Serbia, and you will be able to make a bidding with the embassies on how to return those thousands of people to their country of origin, which you are not aware of. After all, most of the people involved claim to be Syrians, or they have a completely undetectable identity. [[11.40]] And that is the problem: if, say, Mr. Secretary of State and I, two or five thousand experts go out into the border, only three people arrive, neither you, nor I, nor experts can tell who is a real refugee, who is an immigrant, or who is a terrorist. And until this issue is resolved, it is life-threatening whether by quota or by deportation, to keep anyone in Hungary. And think of one thing: if these people stay here, family reunions will sooner or later inevitably kick in. But in the case of the majority of arrivals, a family reunion does not mean a wife and not one or two children, but a much more populous family, and it can be said that the quota of up to a thousand people you want to settle in Hungary can mean a mass of 40 to 50 thousand over a 20-year period. And obviously, it's an open story, so if you get 1,000 or 1,200 people in the first year, in the coming years, it could be thousands or even more. The European Union's role as a lame duck is perfectly characterised by a debate on the distribution of 120 thousand migrants at the moment, while the numbers of reality have long gone beyond that. A much tougher, much more dramatic situation needs to be put in place. And in the meantime, Jobbik had an initiative that we are holding: we would like to hold a decisive referendum in Hungary, to publish any kind of quota-like solution where we would ask - unfortunately, we are the only parties - directly the people, whether they are willing to settle aliens in Hungary on the basis of any quota or any other solution. Yes or no? Jobbik will obviously argue for gender with all available means, and it was amazing that last week's mentioned conference, where Attila Mesterházy said that he believes that Hungarian citizens do not have enough information to decide on such a referendum, according to a liberal representative in this anti-migrant atmosphere. Jobbik stands alone waiting for us to ask the voters directly, thanks to whom we can be here today, because we know that it is our historic duty to say no to the invasion and to prevent the exchange of people at any cost. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-14	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond.
u2015-09-28-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you that we have already asked people in response to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's comments before the agenda. More than one million of the people answered the 12 questions of the national consultation, and the task was clearly expressed by the people: the government must protect Hungary. Honourable Congressman, We protect Hungary. On 4 September, Parliament adopted a package of laws which, on the one hand, include the tightening up of the criminal code, the violation of the border seal, the prohibition of its construction as a criminal offence, tightening the penalties that can be imposed on smugglers, and laying down a number of measures that allow us to deal with these asylum applications in the transit zone in an accelerated way, but in accordance with EU legislation, and fully expressing Hungary's interests. Honourable Congressman, So we asked people, people took a clear stand: Hungary must be protected. We protect Hungary. As far as the quota system is concerned, the Hungarian position was clear from the beginning, and this has not changed. Hungary opposed and rejected mandatory quotas. The Hungarian representative, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, voted against the mandatory quotas last week, Tuesday, and the government's position remains that the quota does not solve the problem, the quota tries to deal with the consequences and does not want to eliminate the reasons. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Quota, compulsory quota, is not a solution, as mass migration is currently taking place, with the consequences which are incomprehensible, the supply of which cannot be seen. On the last Monday, Prime Minister, in his statement before the agenda, explained in detail what a mass of people from Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Libya has started and is on their way to the European Union, and the biggest problem is that, and we have repeatedly pointed out, that the Schengen external borders must be protected. And Greece does not protect the Schengen borders, it does not comply with the requirements of the Schengen Convention, the Schengen Code, which clearly states that the Schengen Member State can only open the external border at a border crossing point, but can only enter the Schengen area in the legal opening hours and with legal documents. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Government has made this position clear that it does not support, oppose, and has acted in every way against the mandatory quotas. Since then, we have known, we know, and the Hungarian Members have said that this is a typical example of moral imperialism, Germany is forcing its will on other countries, and we regard the compulsory quota as a serious mistake. We also explained that we would like to discuss this and then take a decision on this. So, honourable Member, that is what we are saying today, as the most important task we are saying today, is that every EU Member State with an external Schengen border must protect this border, the external Schengen border, because if we can do that, because if we can prevent millions of migrants from coming into the European Union illegally, we are taking a very big step to resolve this situation. Until then, we have a lot of work to do. Once again, the government is opposed to the mandatory quota, we are debating this in Parliament and what action should be taken. What I would like to say, and I would also like to confirm here, is that the correct decisions that have been made so far are the figures showing a drastic decline in the number of illegal migrants arriving at the Hungarian-Serbian border. We can say that the threefold protection that has been achieved, on the one hand, with technical temporary security, the creation of the southern border seal, legal protection and the strengthening of living protection, has worked. Border police units, the operation of the police, the emergence of the defence, the intervention of the defence in the defence of borders all demonstrate that the government meets the requirement set by the people in the national consultation. We will protect Hungary, that is what we have done, and that is what we will do in the future. If that's what you want, then support the government in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-16	Thank you, Secretary of State Kontra. Mr Bence Tuzson, representative of the Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda, entitled "The tasks ahead." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Within the walls of this House, we have already talked a great deal about migration, illegal immigration. We see the process that is happening in Europe, from somewhere in different parts of the world tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of people are moving towards Europe, and then they typically arrive in Europe at the green border or crossing the border. When we talk about this issue, we talk about cultural issues, we talk about civilisation issues, we talk about humanitarian issues, but there is relatively little talk about what is a real threat in Europe, and that is the danger of terrorism. Remember, I am sorry that József Tobias had just left the room, who said six months ago that there was no connection between immigration and terrorism, and we see what events are taking place in Europe and what events are taking place at the Hungarian border crossing point. On 16 September Röszkén there was an ominous event when an attack was carried out against the Hungarian border, yes, it was an attack, which in other words could be called an act of terrorism, because if someone attacks the Hungarian border, they commit an act of violence against Hungarian police at the border, the act of terrorism must be classified as an act of terrorism under Hungarian law. The Hungarian police also published a list containing a description of the persons who participated in this activity and organised this activity in some form. Shortly thereafter, TEK, the Counter-Terrorism Center, caught a 39-year-old Syrian man, who had found more passports than his own, with a valid Schengen visa, and in international cooperation it turned out that he was a member of an organization whose task was to smuggle terrorist men into the European Union by potentially committing terrorist acts. [[11.50]] This man is already undercover in Europe, because he has a business in Cyprus, he has a work permit, he has a fishing boat, he has five cars and he wants to build a house for 90 thousand euros, and then he has a backpack attached to his back, and with this backpack he appeared at the Hungarian border, and in this backpack, interestingly, there was even a megaphone. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, are typical refugees like this? Is this man a refugee who arrives at the border with such equipment? Obviously not. We see that if thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people can cross the borders of the European Union without being controlled, it is a terrorist threat in Europe. It is a terrorist threat, and this is stated by more and more experts, and European politicians - most recently in Switzerland, but already in Germany - remember and mention that this is, in fact, not only a large number of people arriving, but it raises a number of problems, but it also increases the threat of terrorism in Europe. And if it increases the threat of terrorism in Europe, it will increase it in Hungary, and the Hungarian population will feel it too, because according to recent surveys, more than 80 percent of the people in Hungary believe that this is a kind of threat to Hungarian people are a threat to Hungarian society on the one hand for economic reasons and, on the other hand, for the reason of the terrorist threat. Accordingly, we must do everything - and perhaps this is one of the reasons why our policy is focused on protecting borders in this regard - so that they arrive in Europe in a controlled way, that it is not possible for someone or someone to just wander across the border in a mass way, waiting for each other, but to arrive in a controlled way. Those who are refugees and who can be considered refugees under the law should be given refuge, but those who come as immigrants, as economic immigrants, of course not, and those who are dangerous to us from the other side, are dangerous to the European Union and dangerous to the European institutional system. It is therefore important that we Hungarians also have a strong position on this issue, and the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament, take a position on these issues and reject terrorism as strongly as possible and protect the Hungarian population and Europe from the threat of terrorism. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Tuzson Bence. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-09-28-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When the Government set up the Counter-Terrorism Centre on 1 September 2010, five years ago, the opposition parties had unfair and unfounded attacks on the institution, the organization. These unsubstantiated criticisms have been completely silent today, but it is not useless to mention the right decision it was then, five years ago, to create this organisation in Europe, taking into account European patterns, since terrorism was already a major threat, and the threat of terrorism was present in many parts of Europe. Today, in the context of illegal migration, mass immigration, large-scale migration, no one disputes that this is a potential threat and a threat to which people say their legitimate need to protect the government is to protect them from this danger. What I can tell you is that the decision from five years ago was a completely sound and correct decision, and this institution, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, with its work, is also a significant help that we can eliminate and eliminate this threat, this terrorist threat. Congressman said that it is a very important requirement that migrants, illegal migrants, come to Europe in a controlled manner and enter the country. I would add that I think it is important that they do not come, as Prime Minister has made the Government's position very clear, so that in order to make a better living, don't come, he literally said that, don't come, that's what the illegal migrants said. The aim would be not to come if they did not start, because there is nothing to be done about it, it does not go on the country, on the M1 and on the railway lines, and there is no need to express the fears that the Member here has made in his speech. But until we can achieve and implement the government's will to achieve a united European cooperation in this, to extend border protection and to fully protect the Schengen borders at all the Schengen border sections of the European Union, the Hungarian government, the bodies, the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the services, must really take measures to ensure that there is no threat of terrorism in Hungary as far as possible. After all, as the Member said, these illegal migrants, who enter and go to Hungary without checks and without registration, do not know who they are, do not know who they are and what purpose they will remain in the country. So it is absolutely important that we can protect the entire Hungarian border, this is the government's express intention that we will achieve this. The necessary tools will be made available, the necessary technical, legal and living conditions provided by the government with the law adopted on 4 September, or by amending the budget law on the source side, and we will do our best to ensure that the determining bodies, the Immigration and Nationality Office, the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the services do not allow terrorists to enter Hungary or, if such persons arrive in Hungary, the competent authorities will be able to take action against them. As regards the attack at the Röszke 2 border crossing point on 16 September, I would like to say in this connection, and it is not possible to thank the professional and police officers who served there enough to protect Hungary, this reassures the people, which is a guarantee that if such an attack is taking place in Hungary, the Hungarian authorities will be able to meet the requirement to protect Hungary. The person you're talking about is being prosecuted, the person is being arrested in advance, and the proceedings are being conducted against him. As far as effective counter-terrorism and prevention are concerned, I would like to say that the Hungarian authorities, the bodies empowered to do so, are working together, on the one hand, on cooperation within the Hungarian authorities, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian authorities, on behalf of Hungary, and on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other side of the European Union's co-organised bodies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President, for pointing out this important issue before the agenda. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-20	Thank you, Secretary of State Kontra. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. László Varju, independent; György Lukács, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP and Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, representative women and gentlemen. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2015-09-28-21	László Fatvér, for the President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, with effect from 19 September 2015, Dr. Sávolt-Szabó Tünde was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. Budapest, 18 September 2015 Sincerely: János Áder [[12.00]]
u2015-09-28-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. Tünde Sávolt-Szabó, State Secretary And on behalf of all of us, I wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12: 00 a.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. First of all, MEP László Szakács wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Does the ready-to-pay guarantee come into the law? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the question will be answered on behalf of Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent on the subject, by Mrs Mariann Vízkeleti. You have the floor, Congressman Cook.
u2015-09-28-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the so-called Quaestor Act, which you have also presented and adopted, where HUF 220 billion is lost hand-to-hand, and there are many more than 32 thousand victims, we feel very much that political action and will are lacking. What we see is that the argument that we hear from both Mr Tállai and Secretary of State Kovács that the Constitutional Court procedure has a delaying effect has obviously failed; you know very well that there is no such rule. The experts also agree that in order to implement this law, it would be necessary for the government and the Hungarian State to replace the guarantee of the ready-to-pay guarantee text. Obviously, I will not describe the difference between the two here; we all know that it would oblige the state to take immediate action if this legislation were to change that way. I believe that you, too, when you presented it, and we, when we accepted it, believed that this law would stand the test of constitutionality. Please do not refer to the fact that this matter is still pending before the Constitutional Court, because we all trust in it, and it has no suspensive effect. I believe that it is worth preventing conspiracy theories that you willfully left out the ready-paying guarantee, and that is why there has been only a guarantee in this law that you do not have to abide by and that the implementation of this legislation will be directly impossible. I believe that this legislative amendment will be an excellent measure of political will and will to act, and I believe that this is something that victims of loss of money deserve. They are delaying the implementation of this legislation, and on the basis of all this, I ask the Secretary of State: do they support the inclusion of the ready-paying guarantee in the Quaestor Act, and when will this be before Parliament? Thank you for your kind response in advance.
u2015-09-28-24	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Mariann Water East in two minutes.
u2015-09-28-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Szabolcs Szabó, an independent and Dr. László György Lukács, who submitted two days apart in August 2015, following the initiative of a completely identical legislative amendment in substance, the MSZP came forward with a proposal for a solution and called for the provision of the ready-paying guarantee through the amendment of the Quaestor Act. On this point, however, I would also like to stress that simply imposing the guarantee to pay is not enough through the amendment of the Quaestor Act, since it should also be covered by the Budget Act. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Then it must also be modified!]] So I would like to suggest to the honourable Members that they also mark the source of this, i.e. where they are proposing to withdraw money from the budget. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] At the same time, it should be pointed out that XXXIX of 2015 on the establishment of a claim management fund to ensure the settlement of claims against Quaestor victims. Five constitutional complaints concerning the law will also be lodged, in which the petitioners ask the Constitutional Court to annul all or part of the law. The submission of constitutional complaints has created a situation in which the conditions for financing the Fund are not given; the Quaestor Fund is currently unable to make payments because, due to the current uncertain circumstances, it has not found a creditor to provide its resources. Title of payment to victims [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it is the subject of the Constitutional Court's proceedings, i.e. it is appropriate to await the decision of the Constitutional Court in order to avoid any unnecessary amendment to the law. [[The president's ringing again.]] of which, if necessary, the Government will initiate the necessary amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-26	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "How long will the refugee camp stay in Körmend and Szentgotthárd? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2015-09-28-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Ministry of Interior has opened a refugee camp in Körmend and Szentgotthárd without any discussion. Jobbik has protested these actions with all possible means, and we will continue to do our best to close the camps as soon as possible. We find it outrageous that people living in cities and regions are not fully informed of developments, so it is possible to keep guessing. We protested in both settlements, and we also collect signatures against the refugee camp in Szentgotthárd. We do not want immigrants, we do not want migrants staying in the Körmend Police Secondary School for one day, in the Szentgotthárd Industrial Park or in other settlements of Vas county. István Bebes, mayor of Körmend Fideszes, said that the camp will only stay in the city until the end of September, while Gábor Huszár, also the government leader of Szentgotthárd, asked that the camp be dismantled. Nevertheless, things are pointing in a different direction. Our movements have warned of the dangers that the growing presence of immigrants can cause. Many entrepreneurs complain that the traffic of cafes, restaurants, shops, hairdressers and dentists in Szentgotthárd has experienced a significant decline due to recent events. We have a number of questions: what if the Austrians close the border? What happens if a significant number of immigrants are deported? The public safety of the western border wind can be seriously compromised if immigrants continue to arrive in the area. Every credit is due to firefighters, policemen, soldiers, who carry out their work with full force, but their opportunities are also limited, and the moment may come when they can no longer do anything about the masses of migrants. We must prevent this from happening, so we demand that open refugee camps be immediately closed in the two cities for the safety of our loved ones and families. Dear Secretary of State, Why didn't you ask the Körmendi and the Saintgottharians if they wanted a refugee camp in their town? How long will the registration points stay in the settlements? Why does Jobbik not accept its professional proposals to reduce immigration? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-28	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-28-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to tell the facts to the Honourable Parliament and to you. Prior to the establishment of the assembly points, we informed the leaders of both settlements about the plans and asked for their cooperation. I myself spoke with our former fellow Member, István Bebes, who is now the mayor of Körmend and Mayor Gábor Huszár, Mayor of Szentgotthárd, and asked for their understanding and cooperation. I'd like to tell you the facts. At this moment, today, on 28 September 2015, neither in the tents set up in the yard of the Körmend secondary school nor in Szentgotthárd, there are any refugees, so none. And I would also like to say that Körmenden, in the vocational school, is currently in the presence of the Standing Police, who are carrying out their border protection duties. I ask the honourable Member not to attack the police and border officers who carry out their duties with false information, because if you are very important to the security of the people in Körmend, Szentgotthárd and the area, then do not attack the Hungarian police forces with false, false claims. [[Tibor Bana: What lies?]] That's a very nasty thing to do, Congressman. They preach water and drink wine. So I would like to say that there are no migrants at the moment in any camp. I spoke to both the mayors today. Mayor Gábor Huszár said that they had stayed at the collection point in Szentgotthárd for a total of three hours - they abstained for three hours! - migrants while escorted from one train to another. So they weren't refugees for a moment. [[12.10]] I would like to say that this situation will only be reserved for as long as the migrant crisis justifies it. We want them not to come, too. We made it very clear not to come. We can protect the boundaries. I ask that if you are serious about helping those living there, do not frighten, spread rumors, but support the government, support law enforcement, support border police. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-30	Thank you, Secretary of State Kontra. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy: When will the negotiations begin on the new system of age reduction? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-09-28-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government has broken its promise to employees for the second time. When he terminated the early retirement pension scheme as of 1 January 2012, he promised that in some way the early retirement benefit for those who work in jobs that are harmful to health would continue. They gave you two years to review the list of jobs that qualify for the benefit. The deadline expired on 31 December 2014 without anything having happened in the last two years. It is no wonder that the trade unions signed the minimum wage agreement to restore the age discount at the wage negotiations last year. Then they received the new promise from the government that negotiations would begin to improve the situation of workers under particularly high physical and psychological pressure. According to the agreement, the result should have been submitted to the Parliament during the spring session, but this was also cancelled. There have not even been substantive discussions. According to the LMP, rather than abolishing the age discount, it would be necessary to review it as soon as possible. It is true that the 40-year-old list of more than 800 jobs is now outdated, but this does not mean that there are no jobs, for example in the field of transport or the chemical industry, where it is necessary to maintain a fair system. Most people who work in jobs that are harmful to health in their mid-50s, by the end of their lives, become unemployed and lose their jobs, and in good circumstances they can go to community service. The Constitutional Court has canceled the vote on the pensioner-popular issue, but you cannot sit back, you must fulfill the promise you made to the workers. I would like to know when the negotiations will finally begin. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-09-28-32	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai.
u2015-09-28-33	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On 29 December 2014, the members of the competition sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government, in short, the VKF, concluded an agreement on the minimum wage for 2015, the guaranteed minimum wage and the recommendation for an increase in earnings. In the framework of the agreement, the signatories also agreed to open negotiations in February 2015 on three priority topics: the Labour Code, the Strike Act and the improvement of the situation of workers working in particularly high physical and/or psychological stress conditions, taking into account the abolition of the early retirement pension scheme. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, contrary to the statement made by the Member, trade unions have not signed the minimum wage agreement to restore the discount. Indeed, the joint intention of the signatories was to bring the amendments before the spring session of the Parliament in the event of their agreement. In the Tripartite Working Committee established within the framework of the VKF, professional proposals were made, and the representatives of the government and employers and workers began to work constructively. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It has been misinformed about the absence of substantive discussions, as a summary report has also been prepared as a result of the professional work of the working committee on the management of increased risks to health. Of course, the government is open to suggestions, but we believe it is important that only proposals be put in place in the framework of the review, which can be supported by both employees and employers' representatives. We hope that such an agreement will be reached. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-34	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Attila Gelencsér, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. How does the programme for economic development and innovation facilitate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises? It's an address. Congressman Attila Gelencsér shall take the floor.
u2015-09-28-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Following the excellent performance of last year, the growth of the Hungarian economy can continue this year and next year. Since 2013, the economy has evolved, and its structure is increasingly balanced, and last year Hungary caught up to the fastest growing countries in the European Union with an increase of 3.6 percent. This result must be preserved. Due to the development of domestic automotive capacities and the expansion of the related supplier network, further expansion of industrial production and exports is expected. Hungarian exports will continue to be supported in the coming years by the SME sector's funding programmes. These programmes contribute to an increasing proportion of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in foreign markets. Following the record performance of last year, further expansion of investments is expected this year. In addition to the increased drawdown of EU funds, credit programmes supporting the SME sector and a favourable return environment contribute to this. Businesses will be able to obtain much more funds from 2016 under the Government's agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. All Hungarian applications for the EU budget cycle will be launched by July 2017. The overall envelope will be available to improve competitiveness. Dear Secretary of State, In the framework of the programme for economic development and innovation, 22 calls have been launched, with a budget of HUF 541 billion available, and 34 applications for HUF 376 billion will be announced by the end of the programme. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask the Minister how GINOP will contribute to GDP growth, to improving the competitiveness of SMEs. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Gelencsér. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-09-28-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said in your speech and your question, the fundamental aim of the use of EU funds between 2014 and 2020 is to strengthen the economy, to develop the economy, to find new markets, to preserve and protect jobs, and to create new jobs. Therefore, 60 percent of resources should serve the needs, ideas and goals of the economy, thus strengthening competitiveness. Indeed, the operational programme for economic development and innovation will have the greatest role to play in achieving this objective, with HUF 2700 billion of resources available here, including research and development and financial instruments. It is very important that a new form of support for SMEs as part of this operational programme, namely the provision of financial instruments, is presented as a new element. This operational programme would like to provide financial instruments to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which lack resources to implement their ideas and developments. This year, for example, we are planning to publish four calls on this subject. And by the way, the program has actually started, as you pointed out. A total of 242 billion HUF requests have been submitted with more than 4,000 applications. The programme will continue with regard to the various priorities, with the confidence that the small and medium-sized enterprises sector will be able to make use of this opportunity and will strengthen this sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[12.20]]
u2015-09-28-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What is the justification for another 47.2 billion public media support? It's an address. Mr Szabolcs Szabó has the floor.
u2015-09-28-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The public media - because, let us be honest, it would be difficult to call this media service a public media - has significant budget support, but it operates only this year and next year on an annual basis with about HUF 70 billion of state aid. However, we were surprised to learn that even this HUF 70 billion is not enough for state media leaders. By the way, we have tried several times to get a response from MTVA on what ratings data have been based on their new programming structure, on which market research has been carried out in this regard, but they have been constantly communicating with us that they are transmitting value, and they do not need it. The press department of MTVA was also able to describe that these market analyses were of no use to them at all. After such a history, it was revealed to everyone that MTVA could not maintain its new programming structure, so the government proposes to consolidate its debt of approximately HUF 47 billion by the state, because MTVA was in a serious financial situation. The problem is that you put yourself in this situation because you're incapable of maintaining your operation, even with so much state aid. In addition, they produce unwatchable, partial programs, in fact a fidesz propaganda media is the whole public media. We therefore demand that this debt consolidation be stopped, and I would also ask Mr Secretary of State exactly why we take over this debt of HUF 50 billion and so support this wasteful public media. I look forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-09-28-40	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai.
u2015-09-28-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Although he does issue a financial question in his question, he mainly expressed the criticism and criticism of the Hungarian Television as a public media, so it is difficult to answer your question in this way. However, allow me to think that it is wrong to compare the activity of a public media with that of a commercial television in terms of economy, that is definitely wrong thinking and expectation. And the other is that you may not like the fact that this public television shows what's happening in this country. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] which is built in the country, when people can enjoy investment, but believe that this is part of the country, the country's result, and this must also be presented. As far as the specific issue is concerned - although he said little about it - the loan transfer of HUF 47.2 billion. The inclusion of this loan was justified by the fact that in 2012 the television, the building owned by the Hungarian State and rented by the Hungarian State, was triggered and purchased by a credit facility, and that it was necessary to take on a working asset loan for the transformation of television programmes and the television system. That's what the government's taking over for now. This does not constitute any additional loan for the State. So the point is that an old bad rental arrangement and the debt accumulated so far are triggered by the current loan, which does not cause any more debt to public finances. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-42	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: - - Can locals hope to save the hospital at the basement? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-28-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Please don't answer to me in the first place, but to the locals, the people who live there, because they asked me to ask you this question now. After you become a new State Secretary for Health for your government, I will raise the problem of the cellars again, in case there are other approaches, a better professional decision will be made and the fate of the hospital at the basement will be changed. It's not too late. As a county of Tolna, the problems of the people living in and around the Cellar must be discussed between the walls of Parliament, as the fate of the hospital in the cellar is not only an emotional issue, especially for the people living in the 17 settlements. The inhabitants of the 17 settlements will now be able to travel for more than an hour to reach the hospital in Mombovar, Szekszárd or Siófok. It's not just an emotional question for people living here, it's their health that depends on it. The people who lived here used to protest for this hospital, protest for the institution. They did everything they could to save their hospital so their institution could survive. From their Dutch town of brothers, they got tools, closets, beds, mattresses, which, if you're passing by now, are out in the courtyard of the hospital, they're lying in the wasteland. I don't think it's gonna stay that way. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether the residents can expect at least the specialist orders to be restarted; whether they can expect at least one-day surgery to remain in the hospital for the safety of their care, so that they can return one or two active beds. In the hope of a better decision, and in answer to the question of the people who live there, I look forward to your answer, and I really ask you not to answer to an opposition representative, but to the people who live there, because they are asking you this. Thank you.
u2015-09-28-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-28-45	Thank you very much for the floor. The health of the people in the cellar was important only because the government spent 200 million HUF to improve the equipment there in the past period, so not only from foreign donations, but also from Hungarian and European sources to improve the health of those there. At the same time, the basement site was taken over by St. Luke's Hospital in Dombóvár from 1 July. The transfer-over took place as part of the entire Tolna County Health Cooperation concept, and in particular in order to obtain development resources from a TIOP project. According to the minimum professional conditions guaranteeing patient safety, since other benefits lacked diagnostic conditions and co-professionalism, care of elderly patients in Cellar is the long-term operating profile, so this project was also designed to create the conditions for this change of function. Thus, nearly 200 million forints of resources arrived, including windows were renovated, mechanical systems were upgraded to 178 million forints, and medical devices were purchased for further operation for 10 million forints, so a whole wing of buildings could be completely renewed. Here, there will be a 39-bedded class for elderly patients on two levels, and thanks to the renovations, efficiency has also increased, as the number of pavilions there has decreased with a pavilion. During the renovation, the laboratory, the blood collection site and the medical clinic are also operating in the hospital, and further specialist orders have been temporarily transferred to the Tamás office, but they will obviously be returned at the closure of the project. By the way, only 10 patients are ordered in surgery on two days a week and 10 patients appear in the obstetric gynecologist's clinic, which is available on one day a week, so according to the patient traffic data, there is no reason to extend the duration of the specializations you requested and the required minimum courses remain, but the one-day surgery does not have the appropriate medical background. In total, we have tried to improve access to professional services in Cellar with HUF 200 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "When will the reception centre in Kiskunhalas be completed?" It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2015-09-28-47	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In preparation for my speech, I received the text of my oral question at the end of last year, in which it was said as a shocking number that more than 500 migrants arrived in Hungary at the southern borders in one day. We'd love to have a song this small today. In addition to the data indicating the amazing deterioration of the situation, it also says a lot that my fellow Member, Jobbik and Dániel Z. Kárpát, have been calling for the restoration of the independent border guards since the first half of 2014, as well as the deployment of reception centres outside the populated area, and a general action plan to address the problem. Jobbik, therefore, considered it important, as the only party in the last year, to better manage the flood of immigrants and prepare for a radical deterioration of the situation. However, the preparation at Jobbik did not mean the early establishment of refugee camps, nor is it acceptable, even after the significant transformation of the situation in recent weeks, to have foreign police camps in the vicinity of populated areas. [[12.30]] So is the majority of the population of my constituency, Kiskunhalas, who do not want to see hundreds of people in their neighbourhood every day in the coming period who do not even know where they really came from or what their intentions are. The people here do not want to continue with previous incidents when immigrants were throwing stones, attacking policemen, and later threatening to set fire to the barracks. Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister himself made it clear that in Hungary - I quote literally - a refugee camp, a distribution place, a collection place cannot be established. Despite previous experience, we are trying to trust the Prime Minister's credibility, so we hope that the inhabitants of Kiskunhalas will no longer have to live with the threat of dangerous public safety, public cleanliness and public health. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what the government's plan for the Kiskunhalas reception centre is when it is expected to be abolished. I look forward to your reply as soon as possible. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-28-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-28-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government of Hungary aims to protect all Hungarian people from the danger caused by illegal migrants, not only Körmend, Szentgotthárd, but Kiskunhalas, Sormas, Martonfa, all Hungarian settlements, all Hungarian people. To this end, it will act and present legislative proposals, such as the bill negotiated on 3-4 September and the two-thirds laws adopted at the last meeting, which will, inter alia, enable the defence to participate in border surveillance. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say that we have established a very good relationship with the representative body, mayor and Member of the town of Kiskunhalas in order to ensure that the people who live there are safe and that communication is regular with the leaders and representatives of the settlement. I would like to inform you that Kiskunhalason is currently operating a collection point, which is currently being transformed into an asylum-guarded reception centre. This is where asylum seekers who have legal conditions for asylum detention are placed. The fact that the institution will function as a guarded reception centre, i.e. a closed institution, removes the public security threat referred to in its question and also addresses public purity and public health concerns. I still think it is important to stress that the Ministry of Interior cooperates in everything with the city's leadership and inhabitants, we provide information in everything and guarantee the safety of the people in the settlement. Honourable Congressman, We would like to see no illegal arrivals of migrants in Hungary, and everyone who comes to Hungary with peaceful intentions comes with documents required by legal legislation. When this happens, we can talk about the future of this collection point or camp. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-28-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Who pays the price of the Mensa Reform? It's an address. Is it duet or solo? [[István Ikotity reporting.]] Yeah. Then Congressman István Ikotity will take the floor. I thought it was a duet. [[István Ikotity: We remain on a simple question.]] Yeah, here you go.
u2015-09-28-51	Dear Secretary of State, It's been almost a month since the Catering Order, but there's still a lot of question marks around it. It remains unclear who pays the price for the menza reform, by the time you can afford 200-300 forints a day, whether the norm can cover the cost of eating a healthy, modern diet. If not, where should local authorities create the additional cost of free catering? In addition, whether the new rules make a real difference depends on the ability of municipal cuisine to cook healthier. There are also serious technical conditions for this, for example, the cooking kitchens should be equipped with special air-mixing oven steam heaters. In order to make menzakos healthier, it is necessary to change the way food is prepared. However, such equipment costs more than a million forints. Compared to this, the government issued only a HUF 1 billion tender for technical modernisation, kitchen expansion and renovation to the municipalities in the summer. There was a huge demand for tender money, every third government applied, a total of HUF 28 billion was received. Instead of increasing the tender framework in view of a large number of needs, the government allocated the one billion to 55 municipalities. 900 municipalities have fallen short of the possibility of, for example, turning the kindergarten heating kitchen into a cooking kitchen, buying modern equipment, or reducing the costs of the kindergarten operation through energy upgrades. Our question is what will happen to these municipalities, what support they can expect, how they will be able to meet the conditions provided for in the Catering Regulation. I look forward to your reply with respect. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2015-09-28-52	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-28-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we agree that the healthier food for children in schools, the sick in hospitals, the elderly in social homes is in our mutual interest. With less salt intake, less amenities, such as soup powder, to get more fruit, more vegetables, I think we have a common goal. Anyone who doesn't agree with this, to make it healthier for the children at school for their meal, please come in. But I think that's what every decent, normal-minded person supports. In the same way, children's health is served by trying to improve their physical condition with daily exercise and physical education. We are talking about a rather long process here, Mr President, and you know it, because there is a longer time for the municipalities and everyone else to prepare, and we have pushed the date of its introduction several times. It is not 200-300 forints that can be translated or translated, but 550 forints. Obviously, it would be nice to have it even higher, but by far it is not the amount you were talking about, not 200-300, but 550 forints. I believe that the one billion HUF item that is included in this year's budget, and although you did not support the budget for next year, the one billion HUF that you can spend on modernising the kitchens will continue in the next year's budget, I think this will help even more to buy the equipment that the municipalities and service providers have not purchased in the previous years, precisely so that they can put healthier food on the children's table. If you look at the budget numbers between 2010 and 16 or even 15 you will see that while in 2010 you played HUF 29 billion to cover the children's meals, this year you will have HUF 58 billion and next year HUF 71 billion. So, to a huge extent, this resource has doubled in over five years, to an unprecedented extent since the change of regime. Obviously, we also expect providers to provide healthier food for children. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-28-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:, Can GE Aviation Hungary's innovations provide guidance for other large companies? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Tuzson.
u2015-09-28-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my constituency, which is at the border of Budapest in Pest county, one of the most dynamically developing settlements is Veresegyház, and it is this settlement that has an attraction in the sense that several large companies are established here. G.E., General Electric, is here with its two major factories. One factory is a turbine plant, which deals with energy production, and the other is GE Aviation, which serves aircraft turbines. It is a great joy and privilege to praise the work of the people there that every six seconds in the world an aircraft in which the turbine was operated in Hungary with the hands of the Hungarian people. It is important that Hungary can be an attractive target and encourage investors. It is very fortunate that the companies see this, the American companies too, and they are expanding their capacity in Hungary, not only in the field of assembly, but also in the field of innovation, they use the Hungarian people's hands, but also in the knowledge of the Hungarian people. It is important that we go on this path, and not just one company, a large American company, which still gives jobs to 12 500 people in Hungary and has 2 thousand strategic subcontractors here, so it is a large factory in Hungary, but other factories take this example, take advantage of the Hungarian people's work and use the knowledge of the Hungarian people. [[12.40]] I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State in this regard whether there is any chance that Hungarian companies will follow this example, or if such an investment, such an investment, is being made in Hungary, whether it will help the infrastructure of the area, the settlement, the development of the city. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-56	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs László Szabó.
u2015-09-28-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman! Hungary plays a key role in the life of General Electric, it also shows that its 12 factories currently operate here in Hungary, there are 3 regional business centres and 5 R &amp; D centres in the country. The GE Aviation business is open in April 2000 and we are very happy that they are already dealing with further development: $6 million has been invested in the construction of the plant, further expansion in Veresegyház and $4 million is invested in equipment and technological developments. Technically, this means that after GE Lighting, GE Water and GE Healthcare, this is the fourth technological centre that is now being created in Veresegyház, and this means that world-class technology is being brought here, and Hungarian workers, the Hungarian workforce, acquire global technology. This shows that Hungary's exports are increasing not only in quantities but also in quality. We know that exports are very nice in Hungary, but that the added value, which is created in Hungary, is also constantly increasing, this is very good news for us, and I am sure that this is exemplary. It is also good to see that fDi Magazine, a publication of the Financial Times, identified Hungary as one of the most attractive European investment destinations last year, and this year Forbes magazine classified Hungary as the first ten - if compared to all countries in the world - as an investment destination. So this clearly shows that objective external parties also say that it is worth investing in Hungary. The fact that 60 percent of the total investment in Hungary is already made by a company that has already been present in the country, which shows that we are doing very good work not only in drawing here, but also in keeping investors. And the fact that General Electric can improve its operation at this level - and this is typical of many other companies - is certainly a reason for confidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2015-09-28-59	Dear Secretary of State, Last year, I asked Minister Lázár an immediate question about a company in Szeged, Titan Project. s House Kft., how it is possible that a company will receive one hundred percent of its turnover, HUF 185 million for a tourism project, according to experts, this project could be implemented from HUF 50 million. I also said that the company was closely linked to the then president of Fidesz, Szeged, because both his managing director and his owners had a friendly and co-worker relationship with him. At the time, Minister, you promised me that you would investigate the case, after several exchanges of correspondence, you finally informed me that you did not find any irregularities in the use of the money. Meanwhile, a local government representative from Szeged also filed a complaint and an investigation into fiscal fraud was launched at the NAV's Criminal Directorate; and OLAF also initiated proceedings against the company in the use of EU funds. In any case, this tourist project, which is nothing more than a playground, has been completed and worked for a while in the Vadaspark of Szeged. For the operation of the wildlife park, an agreement was reached for which the company paid rent. However, a lot of complaints were received here, as the playground was not open during the main opening hours, the basic maintenance was not carried out by the company, and after a while the company did not pay the rent, which caused the wildlife park to terminate the agreement and initiate liquidation proceedings against the company. In the meantime, a lot has happened to the company. The company now owns a Ukrainian private owner, and after many changes in the seat, the company is now registered to a location in Szeged where there are 56 other companies. That's the history that's unacceptable. My question, Madam Secretary, is how it is possible, however, that despite OLAF proceedings, despite criminal investigations, the company was able to win HUF 50 million for the development of its premises by paying him HUF 25 million. Not to mention that the company is already in a final execution. Please, Madam Secretary, examine the matter in substance and answer my question. Thank you.
u2015-09-28-60	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the secretary of state, Eszter Vitalyos.
u2015-09-28-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The site development project referred to in your question, as you mention, has been handed over. Kft receiving the project. it carries out the investment with unchanged technical content and budget, and the indicators in the tender are provided according to the management authority's information. For the execution site, the order of ownership shall be taken over by the receiving krt. Confirmed. Allow me to reassure you, honourable Member, that multi-level control system, confirmed by the government in recent years by centralising implementation, was also in place in connection with the physical project, which is intended to ensure the proper use of EU projects. Thanks to the effective control system, it can be said that, as the EU funds for the period 2007-13 are drawn to an end, in the light of the closed irregularities procedures, only a small part of the total amount of aid paid is involved in any cases of irregularity. According to the information provided by the sponsor-management authority, Titan Project. s House Kft. against the predecessor of the project. An irregularity procedure has been carried out against him, which has resulted in the obligation to repay the amount of aid unduly recovered by the beneficiary who has been subject to winding-up proceedings in the meantime. If someone does not use EU funds in accordance with the rules, we will definitely recover the last HUF and, if necessary, take appropriate legal measures. We will not allow this in the next EU period. The government is committed to making the most of EU money, while at the same time using it properly. Honourable Congressman, Within the framework of EU and domestic legislation, we will do everything we can to eliminate projects that face financial difficulties as soon as possible. Where the implementation of a project is threatened, the necessary measures shall be taken, where appropriate by the immediate suspension of payments or even the termination of the grant contract. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that anyone can submit a proposal for calls for proposals from the EU funds. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is for the managing authority to assess whether the submitted [[The president's ringing again.]] When assessing material, decide who and...
u2015-09-28-62	Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-63	... how much aid will be granted. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-64	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: . Will the people in the air-conditioned government Audi hear the legitimate complaints of those working in the Community transport sector? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2015-09-28-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Then a million people, 14,000 square kilometers, 655 settlements - the region of Southern Transdanubia has sunk into periphery in recent decades. Its structure is typically small-scale, so there should be clarity: public transport is a public service, not just an economic issue. Last Monday, at the South Transdanubian Transport Centre Zrt., the drivers held a black T-shirt awareness-raising action at the Solidarity Bus Transport Union in Somogy, Tolna and Baranya, and in four other counties, like the poor health and social sphere. The demonstrators demanded a 50% wage increase under three years of age and improvements in working conditions. It would be time to settle the humiliatingly low salaries, as most of the responsible workers hardly take home more than HUF 100,000 per month, so many people leave the country and continue driving somewhere in the West. According to the trade union leaders, flights may be endangered, the flight thinning threat is in the air, since the unblessed conditions make it possible to talk about a shortage of professionals. This, in turn, would mean a further decay of the countryside which had been deprived of its railway lines, but which still lacked the sideline concept. From the point of view of small settlements and the countryside, we are at the last minute; it is a sin to neglect this area, as many people go by bus to work, school, and thus keep in touch with their families and friends. While one third of the population lives below the poverty line, the leaders of public companies can expect large wages. But does the government also think about the hardworking little people? Can bus drivers, who are responsible for a multitude of lives, be expected to raise wages every day? I am looking forward to this, Mr Secretary of State, with the honour of your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[12.50]]
u2015-09-28-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-09-28-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is fully aware and aware of the fact that bus drivers run the vast majority of inter-urban transport, and let us add that the other Volán workers behind them are also doing their job with a very serious responsibility and sacrifice. Here I would like to take this opportunity to express my special thanks to drivers who have been involved in the very, very hard and voluntary work on migration in recent weeks. Honourable Congressman, The interest representatives mentioned by you are in constant contact with both the wallet and the companies, in which we also negotiate with the Bus Transport Trade Union. By the way, in January of this year, the collective agreement signed by them - i.e. by the transport centre and representative trade unions - guarantees that workers will receive their benefits, and that, therefore, with a delay of one and a half years, the rules of employment will also be unified so that the integration of Volán companies does not have to be regulated downward rather than upward. Accordingly, their real income increased by nearly 4 percent in the absence of one tenth. Labour shortages are structured in all transport companies. The measures in this regard will be continuously examined with the employee side and the conditions of the workers will be continuously improved. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What is the responsibility of NGM in the bankruptcy of Széchenyi Bank? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-09-28-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since mid-2013, 49 percent of Széchenyi Bank's shares have been wound up since December 2014, causing billions in damages to taxpayers. The more than one hundred-page MNB report obtained by the press in recent weeks has revealed shocking economic fraud at the financial institution. The MNB launched an investigation with Széchenyi Bank in mid-2013, in which several on-the-spot checks were carried out. The MNB then filed a criminal report in March this year against unknown perpetrators at the Budapest Police Headquarters because of events at the bank, according to the experts of the Central Bank. The bank was led by a close oligarch of the Government of Töröcskei, who was also the head of the Government Debt Management Centre and the owner of Bakui Trading House during that period. Although it was an open secret in business circles for more than a year that István Töröcskei had bankrupted Széchenyi Bank, he could still be the head of the State Debt Management Centre for a good six months. In addition, although Mr Töröcskei sent his resignation to the Ministry of National Economy in writing on 8 December 2014, this was accepted by the Minister more than a month later, only on 12 January this year. Dear Secretary of State, What is the guarantee that your government will show greater professional competence for nationalised MKB Bank and Budapest Bank than Széchenyi Bank, where 3 billion forints of public money have been wasted? Did they correct the errors that led to the state's investment in a bank that went bankrupt less than a year later, but as its owner, he did not suspect what was going on inside the financial institution? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-09-28-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-09-28-71	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government aims to strengthen and maintain the stability of the domestic banking system. The recent financial crisis has shown that the ownership structure of the banking sector is far from neutral in terms of financial stability and lending. In Hungary, foreign-owned subsidiary banks have significantly withdrawn financial resources from the country during the crisis. On the one hand, the significant withdrawal of funds has put strong pressure on the stability of the forint, on the other hand, the lending of domestic companies has almost stopped, which has made it difficult to recover from the crisis, i.e. the start of growth. Recognizing and understanding these processes, the government has developed a new strategy. From the point of view of the Hungarian economy, it is of particular importance that domestic-owned credit institutions are majority in the banking sector. At the same time, domestic and foreign-owned banks complement each other well, reducing the risk of the banking system as a whole, which is favourable to domestic economic processes. The government purchased 49 percent of Széchenyi Bank's minority share in order to develop the domestic-owned banking system. Following the acquisition of minority ownership, a number of information about the bank was found indicating a weaker capital situation than previously known. As a responsible minority owner, the State drew the attention of the majority owner to a number of irregularities and urged the resolution of the problems. The State has used all available means to prepare the majority owner to restore the financial institution's orderly and efficient operation, thereby maintaining the bank's financial position. After the majority shareholder's attempt to raise capital failed in several rounds, the bank's situation became unsustainable under the law, so the Hungarian National Bank withdrew its banking license on 5 December 2014. The liquidation of the bank started on 14 August, in which the State intends to enforce its possible claims by legal means. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence a question:. Will the helicopter pool be renewed next year? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2015-09-28-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, János Lázár again gave good news in the middle of August: next year the helicopter fleet of the police, the rescue service and the Hungarian Army can be renewed. With the news of the acquisition of new vehicles, the government has often delighted the public. Similarly, we rejoiced in the spring of 2013 when Csaba Hende announced the same good news. According to his statement at the time, the tender for the helicopter purchase will be issued in such a way that the new government that took office after the elections will be able to decide which offer to accept by clicking a button in mid-2014. However, in the summer of 2014 the expected push of the button was canceled. The new good news had to wait until the end of 2014, when Csaba Hende provided information on the completion of the tender preparation, which he claimed was just waiting for the government's approval. Instead of announcing the expected government decision, however, John Lazarus was once again able to give only one good news. In the summer of 2016, Hungarian public opinion will be pleased only with the news of the future-new helicopter fleet. The citizens of Hungary can only trust that the pilots of the police, ambulances and defences may be able to carry out their duties on the wings of good news without operating helicopters. There is no reason for the government's five-year inaction on the subject, since you were still in opposition when there was already public record of when the operating hours of helicopters would expire. It is clear that there is a need for transparent and genuine competition tenders. I would like to point out that we have already seen high-value military technical procurement by Fidesz, when Viktor Orbán swept aside the professional preparatory work that lasted for years in a single motion. We are talking about an extremely important issue, not only from a military point of view, but also about the safety of the Hungarian people, because we have seen how important a task helicopters perform during snow chaos or a disaster. In the light of all this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when the push of the button promised in mid-2014 will be implemented and whether the public tender for helicopter procurement will be launched. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary.
u2015-09-28-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government has made its decision in principle on the creation of national helicopter capabilities, and this shows that both the government and the defence portfolio are committed to the renewal of the helicopter stock and the establishment of national helicopter capacity. [[13.00]] Although it takes time to establish a system of conditions for procurement, in particular with regard to the crisis situation that has arisen. However, procurement may only be launched after the coordination of the transport and cover schedule at government level and after its approval. This is being finalised under the direction of the Prime Minister's Office and is currently under way in cooperation with the relevant wallets. Once this has been completed, the final government decision can be reached and the procurement can begin. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Defence a question, "Do our soldiers serving abroad return home?" It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2015-09-28-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, since Fidesz came to power in 2010, it has practically continued the Socialist governments' defence policy regarding our foreign engagement. Today, some 2,000 soldiers are serving on foreign lands, often taking serious risks. The most risky is the Iraq mission in which the government sent our soldiers to fight against the Islamic State. This is irresponsible, on the one hand, because it endangers Hungarian people on foreign soil, and, on the other hand, it makes our country a target for ISIS terrorists, who may have come to Hungary in the last few months as many as a hundred. Jobbik has explained its position on the subject many times. No Hungarian soldier has a place abroad, and no army of foreign countries should be stationed in Hungary. We also did not support action against the Islamic State, and we believe that this is an irresponsible policy implemented by Fidesz with the support of the Gyurcsány Party. The recent exchange of ministers has given rise to faint hopes for people with defence issues in their hearts that the government will change its foreign defence policy. This issue is particularly relevant in the middle of the migration crisis. The National Assembly recently voted for the use of defence in border protection; quite rightly, Jobbik also supported this. The police and soldiers currently serving at the border are heavily overwhelmed, and if immigration pressure continues to increase, the situation will be unsustainable, even if voluntary reserve workers are deployed at the end. It would be a reasonable solution for soldiers serving abroad to be called home by the Minister of Defence, so that we could bring more forces to our southern borders. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State whether there is such an intention at present. Do you think it is right, Mr Secretary, that while there is a shortage of soldiers fighting to defend our country, our soldiers serve foreign interests abroad? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-78	Thank you, Congressman Key Price. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Defence Tamás Vargha.
u2015-09-28-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is committed to maintaining peace and stability for the security of Hungary, and that is why it is important for us to participate actively in international military operations conducted in the framework of UN, NATO, the European Union and other coalition cooperations. The Hungarian Defence Office's operational engagement is carried out in the spirit of Hungarian foreign and security policy interests, on the basis of the agreed operational guidelines. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Unlike the two thousand men mentioned by you, about a thousand soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Service perform international operations. As a member of the international coalition of more than 60 states in Iraq, he has been engaged in training tasks since August 2015. I would like to stress that our soldiers do not perform any specific direct operational tasks against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. In the NATO operation in Afghanistan, we have undertaken a task of creating federal solidarity and stability, and in Iraq as well as in Afghanistan, we are involved in dealing indirectly with the root causes of the refugee crisis in the region. Our contribution can contribute to the stability of the region, which can also have a significant impact on the number of migrants arriving at the borders of our country. The stability of the Western Balkans and the maintenance of our peace operation is also a strong Hungarian interest due to geographical proximity, so the highest concentration of our forces is achieved by 530 people here in this region. At the same time, international peace operations will improve the operational capacity of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and our soldiers with operational experience will be able to carry out their duties in connection with the migration crisis more effectively than our southern borders. Every soldier and police officer serving at the southern border here and here, we thank you for your sacrifice. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "No discipline, no control. Will there be consequences? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-09-28-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the month, the report of the State Audit Office of Hungary, examining the management of the National Rescue Service, was published. The report concluded that the operation of OMSZ was in almost no way correct between 2008 and 2013. And we learned from the economic manager of OMSZ that they did not have a chance to farm properly, because despite their request, they simply did not have enough resources to obtain at least as many new cars as they had to scrapped. In this way, financial collateral was not adequate and could not be secured for operation by 2013. OMSZ was able to source new cars only by delaying the salary increase of the paramedics for years. It adds to the problems that developments financed by EU funds have not been achieved in an acceptable way. And if there were any problems with accounting, the money would have to be repaid, which would certainly lead to the collapse of the National Rescue Service, which is already facing serious funding problems. You don't think there's any problem, I get that answer on a regular basis, there's a line of rescue stations. Well, it's not so obvious in practice, but unfortunately, in every way, government communication can't hide reality. The state of OMSZ now threatens the provision of services, including the health of Hungarian people. Dear Secretary of State, How can you allow such problems to continue for five years with the management of such an important, vital organization? What else do you think is more important to spend than to make sure and quickly health care arrives to people in distress? When are managers of irregular farming held accountable, and what changes are planned to prevent this from happening again, in the same way? Thank you in advance. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2015-09-28-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-28-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You referred to many things in your speech, but you forgot one thing about what caused the biggest problem in the National Rescue Service after 2010. This was that in the last years of socialist government, they essentially forgot to buy ambulances. While it was in the years before they bought new ambulances in the order of a hundred, the socialists in the last two or three years did not obtain an ambulance, and there were only a few. So at least three years were missing from the purchase of ambulances in 2010. It had to be replaced. Obviously, these procedures take a relatively longer time, but fortunately they have succeeded, and over the four years of the government cycle, 300 new ambulances have been put in the order of emergency services. Thus, the security of the rescue has not been compromised in the past period. But as you say, in four years, this government had to buy seven years of ambulances because its predecessors didn't. Obviously, he also had to give extra resources to the government to ensure the wages of paramedics, because, as you say, we are building new rescue stations, and we are renovating 22, 60, and we are dynamicizing, and obviously these new rescue stations also require new personnel, and we also needed new people for enhanced care. For this reason, as early as 2012, we redistributed HUF 464 million under the mandate of the Ministry, the government provided an extra HUF 1 billion, and OEP provided an additional HUF 200 million in order to cover either the guaranteed salary increase or the increase in the minimum wage. In 2013, we provided an extra HUF 1.4 billion for the rescue service as interim support. Obviously, there have also been ongoing internal controls, precisely to ensure that the additional resources are well installed. I think it's good news that next year's budget includes a HUF 2 billion bonus for emergency services. Thank you very much. [[13.10]]
u2015-09-28-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why does the government fail to keep its promise to the water utility companies? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-09-28-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Transdanubian Regional Vízmű Zrt. His CEO has resigned in the last few weeks. He resigned at a time when you offer monthly incomes of four or five million HUF in the financial sector, in the strategic sector. He resigned because, along with all this, he probably thought he didn't want to fire people in the hundredth order, 200-250 people. He resigned because he was likely to create an economic situation around him and around him around the water utility company, which does not give the company the security of its long-term future, either from public utilities or from other sources. Within the framework of the publications and reorganisation programmes of the Hungarian National Asset Manager, which have been published in recent weeks, you will remember it, and Mr. State Secretary knows it, there have been wordings that have carried out mass redundancies, coupled with significant wage cuts. They weed and weed these stories under pressure from the union due to this reorganisation plan, but this is not an assurance for the people, I would like to indicate that this is just a different way of walking, which will not be accompanied by mass firings. One word, as a hundred, I would like not to see it, but rather to be seen with sincere words, on the part of the Secretary of State: why not rather think in the direction of how to raise these services and the quality of these services and guarantee their long-term guarantee, and not in the interests of the people who work there, in order to strengthen their income positions and not to serve to reduce them? I would like to ask you without any misconception: give me a long-term guarantee of this. They've been steering for six years. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary János Fónagy.
u2015-09-28-87	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In answer to your sharp question, allow me to give you the answer you expect. We are both aware that the provision of healthy drinking water is a fundamental and otherwise binding task for all governments, so we consider the institutional system that deals with it to be of particular importance in the past, as well as in the past. The reorganization plan you mentioned is specifically designed to create long-term, predictable and efficient operation for workers and to ensure the necessary public service financing system. The reorganisation plan will be prepared by the Ministry of Development and the National Asset Manager in cooperation with the five majority state-owned water utility companies subject to ownership rights. In preparing this reorganisation plan to ensure the efficiency and stable functioning of state-owned regional water utility companies, we have sought to cooperate with all stakeholders so far and in the future. We intend to define the cornerstones of the plan in cooperation with the Association of Water Services Workers. The Hungarian State is committed to the long-term fulfilment and financing of the public service tasks of the majority state-owned regional water utility companies. It is therefore a prerequisite for this plan to be prepared and implemented with the support of the trade union association. The final design takes place taking into account the proposals, summaries and experiences submitted by the trade union. So far, there is no decision on the plan, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that this is a reassuring and acceptable package of measures for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-88	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Is there a way out of the debt trap of health institutions? It's an address. Mr György Lukács has the floor.
u2015-09-28-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since the state took over the maintenance of health institutions, debt, which appeared to be otherwise contained, has steadily increased and increased. The process, i.e. the increase in debt, is not surprising at all, as the funding fee for health institutions has not increased for years, and even if one can believe the report of the good state, the expenditure on health has decreased from 5.6 per cent to 4.7 per cent since 2010. In view of this, it is clear that until there is no government spending, no additional resources, no reform of health institutions can be achieved. But it is worth drawing up an inventory of the debt that the institutions have and what the government has set out. By 2015, the government wanted to reduce the existing debt of 80 billion - then 80 billion at the beginning of the year - by HUF 60 billion, which, after pumping into the system, did not have a debt of HUF 20 billion, but, unfortunately, no miracle - by the end of July, 39 billion, while by the end of August, 42 billion total debt grew by nearly HUF 3-4 billion in health care institutions. There were institutions such as the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Hospital, which was able to repay HUF 2 billion with debt from June to July, but there were such institutions as the Komló Health Center - which is about to absorb a sanatorium in Sikonda - which also brutally increased its debt from one month to another by HUF 79 million. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State: how does the government intend to stop the repeated accumulation of debts from health institutions? Can the institutions count on next year's budget with another $10 billion in settlement? When do you intend to raise the funding fee for the institutions? 'Cause that could be one of the solutions. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was a very excessive opening sentence for you, however, that hospital debts seemed to be contained earlier. They grew nicely, grew, and if state institution maintenance hadn't entered - you know very well - then one thing would have really increased within the country, and that is the difference, the difference between the level of care in each hospital. After all, you know that there were so many different types of municipalities that it would have meant that people in Eastern Hungary or smaller settlements would have received lower quality care than in a larger settlement or in Western Hungary. This is why the public institutionkeeper was needed, and this opened up the possibility for health services to be better organised not only at municipal level, but also at county level, since the county and capital health economic committees, both in terms of management and management, have finally established a forum that can make county health care more effective at county level, thus offering higher standards to everyone who lives in the county. You yourself pointed out that there was a degree of health debt redemption that had not been seen before, since in general health institutions were supported by 11-12-13-16 billion forints from their current debt, but the large crowd was still rolled before them by hospitals. But by giving 60 billion forints to hospitals at the beginning of this year, we were able to free hospitals from a mass of debt accumulated over several years, and obviously, after such support, we can expect them to make their own operation more efficient. We also provided TÁMOP and other resources for this, such as TÁMOP 6.2.5. And next year - you should know the number - we have the good news that the social contribution tax does not have the 14.5 percent, but the 20.5 percent of the health fund, which will be an additional HUF 34 billion next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. How long will the environment continue to be poisoned in Almásfüzető? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-09-28-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It can be said that storm clouds are gathering over the dangerous waste dumps in the apple-wheater, which, until recently, has enjoyed government protection. Last year, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings for inorganic waste composting, and this year the environmental authority was forced to say no to Tata Environmental Ltd., which manipulated poisons. At the request of an extension of the authorisation, it is established that instead of composting, only the illegal dilution of the toxins takes place. [[13.20]] Despite this, hazardous waste is being disposed of at a constant pace in the Danube flood area, endangering the drinking water base, the environment and the health of people living in the region. The responsibility for this is clearly the responsibility of the Ministry of Professional Supervision of the Administration. The European Commission made it very clear when it called on the Hungarian Government to apply stricter environmental standards in the area. A thorough examination of the current practice has revealed that in the area some waste management activities for rehabilitation have been carried out incorrectly, with consequences for human health protection and environmental protection. The hazardous waste has been mixed with other waste and the impact assessments required by the Habitats Directive have not been prepared, the Commission notes. That is why, with respect, I ask the Secretary of State what the Government is doing to prevent further pollution, to stop the disposal of hazardous waste, and how they intend to prevent the company concerned from withdrawing itself from the obligation to remedy environmental damage following the practice of Scented travel and other similar cases, by charging the costs to taxpayers. Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-09-28-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2015-09-28-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In your question, you presumed to have enjoyed government protection until recently on the hazardous waste disposal sites of the apple-fryer, but let me mention that this activity goes back to several government cycles, and only now, in this government cycle, have the official procedures, all of them closed and administrative decisions taken. In July 2015, the competent government office decided on two procedures. With his first decision, he accepted the fact-finding closing documentation, and also obliged Tatai Zrt. to carry out four years of remedial monitoring, which is final. In this proceeding, the Authority examined whether Tatai Zrt. the activity carried out by it and the existence of red sludge reservoirs have caused surface and groundwater pollution and had a negative impact on Natura 2000 sites through the discharge of rainwater and infiltration of groundwater. The procedure did not reveal any grounds for immediate intervention. In its second decision, the Authority rejected the request for a review of the single permit for use in the environment, while repealing the previous authorisation. The decision has been appealed by the client, and the second stage procedure is currently under way. On the basis of what has been done so far, I would ask the Member to adopt the rules of the administrative procedure and wait for the decision of the second-degree authority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-96	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: What do we know about smugglers? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2015-09-28-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In parallel with the increase in migration, trafficking in human beings is also strengthening as a criminal business. As hyenas, illegal taxi drivers hit immigrants' money from Röszkké to Hegyeshelyom. According to some information, prostitutes are also offered as extra services and a bottle of water is sold to migrants for ten euros. The network in the border forests connects with the groups of migrants and, in the lucky case, they are transported to the agreed location after the conclusion of the business. They often travel for wealth, inhumane conditions, just to think of the good case in Austria the other day, when 71 deaths were caused by the crime of transporting illegal immigrants. The sad experience is that these criminal groups are openly doing business in the vicinity of police units, not bothered by anyone. I ask Mr. Secretary of State: what information do you have on the operation of smugglers? How many arrests and deterrents have been made? What results have been achieved in reducing this criminal life form? Dear Secretary of State, How do you intend to eliminate the network of smugglers? I look forward to your reply, too, and I believe that this is also a matter of great concern to the public in this country, so I would ask you to answer it in substance. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2015-09-28-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm trying to answer all the questions I've been asked, and I'm doing it right now. A historical scale of migration has reached Europe, and a historical scale of migration has reached Hungary. One of the unfortunate consequences of this - I could put it as a by-product - is trafficking in human beings. The government expressed its opinion on trafficking in human beings in the legislative amendment package adopted on 4 September, when it issued serious penalties for the amendment of the criminal code in relation to the crime of smuggling of human beings, in a qualified case ten years in prison or even more serious punishment, and the property of the perpetrator of the smuggling of human beings can be confiscated. So we have made it clear that it is intolerable for these gangs to operate, it is intolerable for the crime of smuggling people to be committed. In addition, the police are taking decisive action against smugglers and smugglers. I'd like to tell you one thing: until yesterday afternoon, 1150 people were caught, so 1150 people were smuggled by police. The police, by the way, are taking action against every crime they have learned, their goal is to prevent the crime, and if they commit it, the perpetrators will be apprehended. To this end, the task force of the National Police Bureau of Investigation in the fight against human trafficking was reinforced by 60 detectives and 30 detectives from the Csongrád County Police Headquarters. So personal reinforcements, lively reinforcements were also made. The laws are strict, Parliament has adopted these laws, the courts are applying them as we hope, and there is every hope that the strict laws, the strong force of action, and the action of the police will bring this serious crime down. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why does the government abandon the Balaton region? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2015-09-28-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, in 2014, the Balaton region was the last of the Hungarian tourist regions in terms of the number of guest nights. This has already shown well what the local people feel, namely that the governments of the past cycles, whether they are socialists or fidesz, have abandoned the Balaton. There is no single development concept, there is low development resources. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the Balaton Development Council has received a record of low state aid this year and will only be slightly higher under better pressure in 2016. [[Noise, interruptions.]] If last year's numbers were disappointing, what should we say when we see this year's data? From January to June, seven of the eight Hungarian tourist regions were able to grow, and Balaton is the only one in which the number of guest nights decreased. This happened with a good summer, a good summer from a tourist point of view and a good summer from a weather point of view, and we could not increase or even reduce the number of guest nights by the lake. This also shows that the good time is not enough when there is no support or development resource involved. You have been promising for years that it will also be better in this area, but the numbers again show that it has not improved. One of our greatest national treasures, the Balaton has become an attacker, which is simply unacceptable to us. Dear Secretary of State, When does the government intend to do anything for the Balaton region to boost tourism in the Balaton region? When are you finally willing to take on Jobbik's proposals to boost the region for years? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-103	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It has brought together a very interesting relationship, knowing that the number of guest nights in the area of Lake Balaton is slightly lower, and that this year it stagnated that the government is doing its job badly. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] That may even be true, but I'm asking you: how is it that the traffic of guest nights has increased in all the other places in the country anyway? [[13.30]] In Budapest, in the countryside, the number of guest nights in the country exceeds the previous period by more than 10 percent, so this is not true for the country, but it is true for Lake Balaton. Instead of making political accusations, it would be much better if the people living there - the Balaton Development Council - really looked for the reasons why this could happen. What has happened in the Balaton region in recent years is that Russian guest traffic has become more and more decisive, and unfortunately, this has decreased, given the international political situation. This is due to the fact that, compared to national results, the Balaton region is indeed able to report weaker results. By the way, this is recognised by NGM, Tourism Zrt. He started a big event in Balaton. We spent 337 million forints on this, his results are coming up. Otherwise, it is not true that the government does not pay attention to the Balaton region. In the last year's budget period, HUF 25.1 billion of EU development came to Lake Balaton. The Balaton Development Council has drawn up a programme for the period 2014-20, which will allow the development of nearly HUF 300 billion in the area of Lake Balaton, and the development of the so-called Balaton bike circle and the sailing tourism of Balaton will also take place from the GINOP. So the future really offers better results, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 13:31. We're going to talk about immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Mr. Prime Minister! How does your government work? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-09-28-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Although I wanted to ask the Prime Minister the question, because Mr János Lázár is also involved in my question, I naturally accept the person of Minister Lazarus.
u2015-09-28-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member accepted Minister Lazarus as a reply. So you have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, On 24 September 2015, last Thursday, at 9 a.m., I convened the Supervisory Sub-Committee of the Committee on Agriculture on the initiative of my fellow opposition Members. We would have had one item on the agenda, and this would have been to provide information on the private ownership of state-owned land and on the planned measures for the transfer of farmers to land. The reason why my fellow opposition Members have initiated the convening of this monitoring subcommittee is that we have been informed by press meetings that the government intends to sell some 380 thousand hectares of state land. My fellow Members and I have therefore initiated the convening of this subcommittee, and I have done so as Chairman of the subcommittee. Mr János Lázár Prime Minister, Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas and Mr Márton Bitay, State Secretary for State Lands of FM, were invited to the agenda item. We have become accustomed to the fact that my fellow Members, let's say, have boycotted the session of this monitoring subcommittee, but not that on the part of the government, the said ministers and secretary-general - although we have invited them to inform us personally and perhaps through us and the press, what content and how the government plans to do this, which we do not agree with, but now without political overtones - they do not come. So what we don't understand is why the minister and the secretary of state didn't come to this meeting. They said in writing that morning or the night before that they would not come to the meeting. We believe that Parliament, as the main representative of the people, will also be able to fulfil its control role, and we believe that it should have come to a monitoring subcommittee meeting. Therefore, I would have asked the Prime Minister, then Minister, although I say he was personally concerned about how the government works, whether they would restore the House's authority and honour. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 'Cause we think it was extremely harmful. Thank you.
u2015-09-28-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-09-28-109	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to begin by apologizing on behalf of myself and my fellow ministers to my fellow Members, including the Member, that we did not attend the meeting of the monitoring subcommittee. We are, of course, ready to make up for that. For my part, that morning I prepared a meeting of the National Security Cabinet which, at 4:00 p.m., assessed the crisis in the immigration situation at the Hungarian-Croatian border section following the Wednesday evening Prime Minister's summit, along with the Prime Minister's return home. After my replacement, I think that it would not have been appropriate in this situation, I think that, since it is a matter of general and priority for the government, it is important that I appear in person before the committee, and I said that on Thursday at 2 p.m. at the government info, which is why I did not leave, and that is why I chose to stay away. That doesn't mean that I would neglect the role of controlling legislation, and it doesn't mean that I wouldn't be ready to appear before the committee. I can also say, of course, on behalf of my fellow ministers and fellow State Secretary, that we are ready to appear before the committee, partly because it is a very important social policy objective for the government, the land for farmers, which, I believe, is suitable not only for a Commission debate but also for a parliamentary debate. On the other hand, the programme should start on 31 October and, as you may know, under the guidelines of the Government's decision, the government will conduct these open auctions, in which we intend to sell land not used by the state to Hungarian owners and Hungarian owners, or to sell land not used by the state, or to sell it at auction for use and property, we hope to settle and close a long, centuries-old ownership dispute. To do so, we will ask for your support either here in Parliament or at the committee meeting. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-110	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, in return.
u2015-09-28-111	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. We were reassured to hear that you were ready to attend this meeting of the Supervisory Sub-Committee, both you and your fellow ministers and State Secretarys. Once again, we feel that this House's authority has been destroyed. We regret that, let's just say, they didn't provide an adequate level of substitution. In the written notice sent, they wrote that they did not wish to participate in any other occupation. We thought that a subcommittee meeting was so important that the minister and the secretary of state would attend. I would therefore like to convene this monitoring subcommittee in the very near future, and I would also like to ask ministers and Secretary of State to come and also inform the Members of Parliament about the details, and, as I have said, most likely the public, because this is indeed a very serious and important issue. Once again, without political overtones: we will not support this, but together we would like to know at least the details of the government's intentions in this regard, and I hope that this case will not happen in the future, let us say. A sub-committee for control, as well. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We think you should respect him by coming with the ministers. Thank you.
u2015-09-28-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-113	Thank you very much. I share what my fellow Member has said, and I repeat that it is not a deliberate absence, so I apologized. There was a case of obstruction. I would have said that, of course, I could have sent a deputy, but I think it would have been right for the committee to have the Minister of the Specialist and the Minister of Social Policy Coordination given a detailed briefing to the Supervisory Sub-Committee. As an elected representative in an individual constituency or as a former Fidesz faction leader, I had no intention of influencing Parliament's powers of control or the work of legislation in any way. Indeed, I think we are about to make one of the most important decisions in this government cycle. The public, verifiable and accountable implementation of this is a national interest, and we are ready to debate either in committee or in Parliament, because we believe that we have taken a decision for the good of the country. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-114	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long will you last?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár as Minister of Prime Minister for the response because of his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-09-28-115	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[13.40]]
u2015-09-28-116	Thank you. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. What do you intend to do to eliminate the jams that have now become permanent in the capital? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2015-09-28-117	I accept the response. I'm gonna need my time back, Mr. President, okay? Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-118	Of course.
u2015-09-28-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The metropolitan and agglomeration population, whether individual or public transport users, suffer from the unblessed conditions that have been characteristic of Budapest's roads for a long time. In addition to some truly important and welcome renovations, we are faced with a number of closures and diversions that simply do not have a reasonable reason. The situation has become completely chaotic at the start of the school year, at present it doesn't matter who or what route they want to travel, there is simply traffic on all roads. In addition to causing extreme annoyance to the school or to the residents who are trying to work, it also represents an extreme environmental burden, which affects the quality of life of the entire population. It's a total mess, that's what you'd say. The thoughtless, unconventional, not to say that the measures taken without a head are making the lives of so many of our countrymen miserable, it often seems as if the current government, the drivers responsible for the transport management were completely against the car society. It is time to put an end to this decades of practice, and some renovations should be done in a coordinated manner. Nor would it be a devil's idea that roads exposed to frequented traffic would be renewed by roadbuilders doing work over shifts for 0-24 hours. With this work organisation, which is already more natural than we are, it would be possible to reduce the time involved in roadblocking significantly, avoiding a number of traffic jams and accidents. I am therefore asking, first of all, what you intend to do to eliminate the chaotic conditions currently occurring on the capital's roads. Secondly, I am interested in whether you are planning to develop any organisational, management model in order to ensure that road renovations are implemented in a coordinated manner, with the least burden on road users in the future. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-09-28-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In your question, you have repeatedly stated that this is a capital issue, but of course I do not want to escape the answer, I am also a subject of capital transport. A year and a half ago, the capital had to decide - as a newspaper reader - that it would take several years to carry out the work that is important, both from a technical point of view and from a source insurance point of view, or that it would try to solve this at the same time, asking the patience of the capital and those who travel here. Undoubtedly, this solution at the same time sometimes leads to conditions that you rightly mentioned in your question. Therefore, both the capital and the people on the road have been asked to understand the capital, and I will join in on this request myself. At the same time, it is necessary to see that road safety improvements are carried out on the M3 on the M5 on the M7 at 36 kilometers. The works on Budaörsi Road related to the investment of Metro 4 will be completed by the end of this year, according to our hopes and the capital. In the same area, the new two-storey road hub will make transport more rational and safe. Work must be done, and there is no doubt that in these frequented traffic places this causes inconveniences, sometimes disruptions. The same applies to the tram network in Buda, the reconstruction of Széll Kálmán tér. By the way, the spinning tram will be finished by the end of December, and I personally trust that the order will be restored in May next year in Széll Kálmán tér. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2015-09-28-122	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr State Secretary, you are right, this is not only a question in Budapest, because let me mention to you that a few weeks ago you narrowed down the section of the M7 motorway between Érd and Budaörs, on the last weekend in Balaton, when there was a heat alarm, and on that weekend there was no one working in the closed area, there wasn't a hoof cut, but on Sunday evening they caused several kilometres of traffic jams. And you say they've asked for people's patience more than once. Indeed, this is what they have been asking for for years now, all we have heard for years is to be patient, because here everything will change, and while people and motorists see that at best there is one person working on these road constructions, five people looking at it or not working at all, the road section is simply closed. Indeed, we can get there - the mayor has announced several times recently - that there will be a congestion charge: people will sit in traffic while paying the prize. It doesn't work that way. Let's finally see how they do it somewhere else and finally create a more livable country and a more livable city. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-125	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, It's pretty much the same in every big city, and it raises the same questions everywhere that you raise. By the way, it is much better to ask me these questions, not to ask why the capital city or someone else whose work has not begun the work of these future-oriented tasks that are useful to people. We've started, and everyone's doing it, doing their job. By the way, as far as your specific suggestion is concerned, I think it was precisely Antal Rogán who initiated the lifting of traffic restrictions on those critical days. So we also notice the current, sometimes insufficiently thought-out, steps that you, by the way, have rightly and for good reason to complain about. We are confident that by the end of the year or next spring, they will cease to exist in the capital and its surroundings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-126	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári State Secretary for the response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-09-28-127	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2015-09-28-128	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, I asked Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources about the suitability and inadequacy of Prime Minister Flórian Farkas, and I supported Flórian Farkas' inadequacy with the suspicious implementation of several EU programmes. The Minister could not even defend the honour of the mundé, among the many, the only one defending the programme "Women's chance - the training of a thousand Roma women," stating that this is, by the way, one of the most successful programmes in terms of employment. That is not what we think at all, and we think it is a tragedy that this is the most successful program. I wonder what the rest of them look like. According to the Minister, even in Brussels this is considered to be one of the most successful programmes. If that's the case, there are very serious problems there too. Let's look at some details. What would make a successful program where thousands of people were trained out of HUF 1.5 billion, i.e. one of the main trainings of each participant in the program - minus living support from this calculation - cost a million forints? Will it cost a million forints a few months of nursing, training a child and youth supervisor, training a social worker? That's nonsense. One million forints can finance not a few months of OKJ training, but a complete university initial education. What would make a successful program where we managed to bring together a million-dollar luxury event at the Podmaniczky-Watch Castle? What makes it a success to have so-called sensitizing trainings in bathing cities for millions of forints? Dear House, This is not a success, but the same waste, and raises the suspicion of corruption and other crimes, as we have seen at the work programme or at the. Travel to the job selection project. In the former case, the EMMI also identified irregularities. The Women's Chance Program is the same tragedy with regard to its effectiveness as everything that the National Roma Municipality and Flórian Farkas have to do with. I look forward to your reply on the changes.
u2015-09-28-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[13.50]]
u2015-09-28-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that if a project overachieves the indicators by which it received its initial support in the EU financing procedure, I think that is a great success. The fact that 2,700 people have been involved in the Roma women training and employment programme, mentioned by you, rather than involving 1,750 people, is, in my opinion, a success. That, instead of 1,000 people in training, 1107 people went through the program, I think it's also a success. That not 750 people received his certificate, but 1012, is also an overachiever to the original numbers, and obviously this brought with it that they did not hold 40, but 45 events nationwide. That social worker and nurse became 257 people, and that's a ten-month-old, so you could say, an entire year of training, I think that's also a big step forward. There have been 329 children and youth inspectors, and I think 21 training courses have also been carried out, 329 such trainings, and I think they have already moved this 329 people forward strongly. Social assistant, which was a graduate training course, 38 of them completed it in ten months. During 19 trainings, the project trained 357 people, and 31 of the children's nurses and educators, which you have just disparaging here, completed in ten months, with a total of 60 trainings and 1012 people. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Do you have a job yet?]] I think these people are probably getting ahead of themselves, getting closer to the world of work. Indeed, there have been a number of EU-funded grants, but this has clearly helped these people, and has given them the most important thing, what they have failed to achieve in their lives, is that they have a degree that they can then move on with, and I think it is a success for all of us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a rejoinder, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I didn't underestimate these trainings at the very least, I insulted the fact that one million HUF is intended for nursing training, child and youth care training, and social care training. These training courses on the market are 60-70 thousand HUF trainings, let's take a look at them. The problem is that they may claim that so much more people have come closer to the world of work, but we can't confirm that. We are going to try to get these data, which, according to the law, should be published to project managers, we will not get them, and now we are about to bring a lawsuit on this. We do not know, we have not seen these numbers, but we think that the fact that more people have participated in a training which is terribly wasteful, which raises the suspicion of corruption, is not at all something to call glory.
u2015-09-28-134	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a rejoinder, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We stand before you, Congressman, for any kind of interest or claim. You know that we have offered both LMP and better representatives - which I think we have rarely had in the last decade - to look at and examine the entire project documentation, and we are also interested in you to look at them. If they find something to object to, they object. You know that since February, we have also launched an investigation into another project, the Bridge to the world of work, as a result of which the total amount of support has been reduced by half, as they have produced only half the result of the original commitment. We offer you the same for this project as before: full publicity, full transparency, access to documents at any time. After that, we expect you to make your comments when you are familiar with the details. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-136	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. In what area can young people count on the assistance of the state in Hungary? It's an address. Minister Katalin Veresné Novák has appointed Secretary of State as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for the answer personally.
u2015-09-28-137	Thank you very much. I am very happy to accept Mrs Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-09-28-138	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-28-139	Thank you. Mr President, Fellow Members! Madam Secretary. We have a lot to do to ensure that young people in Hungary have confidence that they have a future in Hungary. It is therefore very important to talk about the subsidies we have put in place to help young people learn, work, start a family, or create a home. Ladies and gentlemen, One of Europe's very big problems is the high unemployment rate for young people. In Hungary, the Youth Guarantee Programme supports the placement of starters, since its departure more than 23,000 young people who have been looking for work for months have been able to find their place of employment. The aim - a very serious goal - is to extend this support to all young people under the age of 25 by 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, The government will spend twice as much on the national talent program this year: 2.8 billion forints instead of the previous 1.4 billion forints. This will make it possible to finance study competitions and individual scholarships. The message of the program is very important: if you are talented and diligent, you will receive the support you need to learn. It is very important that the family home creation discount has been extended. The grant amounts from HUF 500,000 to HUF 3 million 250 thousand. For example, a family with two children can receive a grant of up to HUF 1 million. Based on the data so far, we can assist at least 12,000 families each year in this way. Dear Secretary of State, In what areas can we expect to help and support young people to stay home, stay in their homeland, and trust that they have a future in Hungary? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-140	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-09-28-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you for bringing this important issue to the House today, because I believe that we cannot talk enough about youth and the future of young people within these walls. The Youth Guarantee Programme, mentioned by the Member, is so ambitious and I think it is important to emphasise and underline this once again, which actually means that by 2018, unemployment for people under the age of 25 will cease in Hungary. This means that by 2018, we will be able to offer jobs and training opportunities for people under the age of 25 who have been in the labour market for four months without such opportunities, either after they have completed their training or after they have lost their job. If we look at youth unemployment figures now in Hungary and Europe, we can already see that youth unemployment in Hungary is significantly below the EU average. At the same time, we cannot sit back until we completely eliminate youth unemployment, because it is indeed hopeless to fail to get their first job. In the same way, it would really be important for young people to get well in their homeland, which requires home creation and the possibility of starting a family in addition to working. I could talk here about a number of programmes, such as programmes for young farmers, programmes to help young people become entrepreneurs, student loans2 or a program to save their diploma, which will help young people to get a degree, whether it is your diploma or your family's home-building benefits, which will make it easier for them to start their homes and start a family. I'd really like to underline our message here. Today we can send a message to young Hungarians that they have a future and have a future in Hungary. We have launched these programmes to this end, and in order to strengthen their youth communities, we will launch a one billion HUF European Union proposal this year, in which we will specifically support the programmes of youth communities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-142	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi in return.
u2015-09-28-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Both the government and Fidesz have a very important programme to deliver to young people the message that they have a future in Hungary, that they have a future in their homeland. Fortunately, we have a long list of measures to support young people. But it is a very important task that these messages, these measures, also reach the young people, so I ask for their help and support in this, and I also offer the group's help for this work, so that all Hungarian young people know what kind of support they can receive and that they have a future in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-144	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-09-28-145	Thank you very much for the suggestion made by Mrs President, I really feel that these messages should reach young people in the language and channels they use, and the language they speak, this is another challenge ahead of us. [[14.00]] For this reason, a European Union programme will also be launched from European Union funds, with a HUF 5 billion grant, with a new generation refilled title, which will help young people to be informed throughout the country through 20 new generation centres and in Budapest, as well as the one billion-dollar proposal I have just mentioned, to the youth communities so that they can send these messages to each other within their own communities and strengthen the youth communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-146	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Everyone is worth as much as he has! It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2015-09-28-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Nyíregyháza, Újfehértó, Nagyhalász, Kótaj, Buj, Ibrány, Kemecse, Nyírtelek, Kálmánháza, Vásárosnamény, Debrecen, Bagamér, Nyíradony, Bóly, Nagykereki, Berettyóújfalu, Mezőpeterd, Szentpeterszeg, Tiszabura, Tiszaroff, Kunhegyes, Kunmadaras, Törökszentmiklós, Jászberény, Jászapáti, Szolnok - only a few settlements related to the Esos-damed. Three counties, 2,800 deluded employees, 2,800 families, almost 10,000 people. In six months, Esos spent 1.3 billion public funds, 7 million forints a day. Dear Minister, Róbert Rácz at the county assembly said on Friday: . In the county of Hajdú-Bihar, the organization resigned to 463 on 20 July from about a thousand people employed at Esos, who were seconded by the employment offices. There are 386 of them who have turned to the employment offices of the district offices for help, 379 have already received some kind of care, and only 7 people do not currently receive any care in the county. Rácz, county government commissioner, said. Again, to put it mildly, they pervert or consciously lie. If we subtract 386 from a thousand, it's not 7, but 614. That's how many people in the county of Hajdú-Bihar are not getting any benefits in connection with Esos, and the same is the case in Szolnok County and Szabolcs County. For all these reasons, I ask Minister: how long do you think it is possible to live without income in Hungary today? Why didn't you notice the fraud when you made the payments, were the controls from the Ministry real? What did the government do for four months? If you have nothing, is it really worth it, Minister? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-09-28-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-09-28-149	Yes, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, Dear House, There was a great debate in the government - not now, but even in 2011-12 - about the role of the various social cooperatives in the employment of the unemployed in disadvantaged areas. The Ministry of Human Resources, together with the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has developed tender conditions that have opened up the possibility of employment for social cooperatives with EU support, and it is clear that for working groups that are primarily concerned with lower added value or physical work. Within this framework, thousands of people at Esos, 2800 people, have been given the opportunity to work continuously, with a high rate of EU support. Two conditions have not been met, which has caused the programme to fail, and which, by the way, confirms the concerns raised so far in the case of social cooperatives. The founder and manager of the social cooperative is not the State, but in this case a private individual, an association of individuals or an undertaking, where appropriate. Here, the social cooperative was able to put a business plan on the table, but it could not provide the self-strengthening of EU aid. If it is a fraud to draw the EU's support, which, by the way, has been allocated to people for wages, and then cannot add the self-force they promised earlier, then we can talk about abuse here. Although I would add that this is the case for a large part of the drawdown of EU funds, it is not possible to add self-strength in the programme, whether it is entrepreneurship-oriented or socially oriented. The other problem is that the forest farms promised the Esos programme to provide work for these workers, but some of the forest farms have sabotaged it, so the Hungarian state has given one hand and with the other hand it contributes partially to the failure of the programme. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-150	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2015-09-28-151	Thank you very much, Minister. Then I have one more question: Forest farms are not state companies? That question must be asked. The other is that I would separate whether or not there was a crime, a lot of people were looking at it, and there will be a result, but the labour law situation for these people has not been clarified, and they have not received income for four months. That's what I've been asking you to do, as soon as possible, to get these people's employment rights straightened out, because that's the most important thing, because now there are thousands of people trapped in the trap of having a contract of employment, but they don't get paid, and they don't get a job, it's not their responsibility. And let me be a little cynical, Minister: Antal Rogán was able to establish a ministry in two days, and these people have been unable to settle their labour law situation for four months. That's all I'm asking you, Minister, to do. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-09-28-153	Madam Congressman, the government has discussed the situation of people who, hoping to improve their situation, have applied to Esos as a social cooperative for work. In the meantime, their situation has even deteriorated, as in the meantime, the government has made a decision that anyone who leaves the public employment cannot go back, that if they end on his own fault or the fault of the company, the company that employs him has failed to do the public work. It is the government's promise to the Prime Minister's Office and the EMMI that these people's return to public employment will be resolved by the government. That's what we're working on. The government commissioners are convened for 16 hours, and I can give you a detailed briefing in writing this week. This problem is expected to be solved, because we want to take every single person back into public employment. You're right, the forest farms are state-owned, and in the forest farms, the tree that the workers of Esos would have collected is given to someone else, it's promised to someone else. Whose interest this is in, we'll have to look into it together. It's about time. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-28-154	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. With billions of dollars does the Orbán government fatten the Gyurcsány business? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Répássy Róbert State Secretary to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-09-28-155	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-09-28-156	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, With reference to the electoral procedural law and national security interest rewritten in 2013, the state produced the ballot papers with the interest of Ferenc Gyurcsány's former business partner by excluding competition last year. Thus, the company of Ákos Erdős, previously attacked by Gyurcsány, received a 2.5 billion-dollar deal on a platter - said Magyar Nemzet - and Ákos Erdős belongs to the interests of ANY Security Printing Company Plc., which has been appointed in secret for the last three elections without open public procurement. The National Election Office, on the grounds that the public should be excluded, raised national security interests and that the security features on those ballots should not enter into unauthorized hands, was their fundamental reason. You are absolutely right about this, however, ANY Security Printing House Plc., which is an interest of Ferenc Gyurcsány's former business partner, and in which Ákos Erdős, Chairman of the Board of Directors, who, by the way, is available in the United States of America, is available at a Boston address, so this company actually has shareholders, owners, such as EGC, with a 11.5 percent ownership share of EG Capital LLC, with a 6.7 percent share of Digital Forest. Although the activity of Gyurcsány, Erdős, Fidesz, seemed to poke the eye of Fidesz at the time of the MSZP.Oligarchy, it is now growing together, and the Fidesz governments are bravely filling the Gyurcsány-oligarchs with money, bringing up reasons such as the national security interest, when the work to be done is entrusted to a company whose ownership background is teeming with foreign legal entities. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State: why does the Orbán government support Gyurcsány business partner company by excluding competition? Do you not feel that the national security reference is unfounded when foreign companies are part owners of the selected company? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-158	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-09-28-159	Honourable Congressman, You are aware that the National Election Office is an independent body of government. [[14.10]] Nevertheless, the Ministry of Justice, prepared for your question, asked the colleagues of the National Election Office what had happened in this particular case. I note that you can also turn to the National Election Office, as Members of Parliament may be informed of their questions, if that is a question related to their work. From the answers of the National Election Office, my summary - i.e. from the assessment of the answers - is that the National Election Office has conducted a legal procedure, with regard only to technical and security aspects when it entrusts the printing works concerned. It is, indeed, as you say, the 218/2011. X. The Government Decree of 19 provides for an easier procurement procedure for the National Election Office and for the CVIII of 2011 on public procurement. The application of the rules of the non-open procedure is based on the decision of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly. It is undoubtedly true, and you did not doubt that the country has a fundamental security and national security interest in supplying ballot papers with anti-counterfeiting protection. Safety elements had to be used in the production of the ballots and the information on them was recommended to be at least national with a secret certificate. I was able to establish this in such a short time in the case of a public body otherwise not under the control of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-160	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-09-28-161	Thank you very much. I was also surprised by the Secretary of State's reply, because in no way was it asked what was hidden in this matter, and perhaps for the first time he heard me present the case, so I was surprised how the Ministry of Justice prepared the answers to this question. Well, there's some kind of connection and some sort of passage between Fidesz and NTI. But you can say anything, it is becoming clearer and one of the reasons for this is that the Orbán government supports Gyurcsány's business partners, and in a company in which Mr Stumpf's brother is a member of the board of directors and Péter Heim, former member of the board of directors of the Századvég. So it is very clear and quite clear that the government is financing the Gyurcsány oligarchs from the background, financing them behind the scenes, while in reality speaking on the contrary. I think these are the issues that need to be addressed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the national security risk and the fact that you don't think it's a problem that the National Election Office is covering up. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-163	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, It was not so difficult to figure out what you wanted to ask, because you simply gave up the terms of the Magyar Nemzet's article on 21 September, so, of course, we asked the National Election Office for information on the statements of the article and the statements contained therein. Otherwise, we will do the same, so since opposition representatives do not usually tell us what they want to ask the government, we are guessing. [[György Szilágyi: You got it right!]] We thought that you would read the statements of this recently published article, read them to us, let us say. But once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the National Election Office is an autonomous administrative body independent of the government on the basis of the Act on Election Procedure; otherwise, a Member of Parliament has the right to address questions in writing to an autonomous administrative body, and you will receive the answers. Please contact the National Election Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-164	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-09-28-165	Yes, thank you.
u2015-09-28-166	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-167	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Here's the autumn, it's here again - let's say and say together with Sándor Petőfi, but due to the events at the Croatian-Hungarian border, autumn is not as beautiful as it used to be. In my constituency, in the public education institutions of Zákány and Barcsi, the educational work is currently under the shadow of thousands of illegal migration. In addition to the police, soldiers, paramedics, mayors, representatives of local governments and local citizens, we should thank the teachers for their assistance and support work. In this ominous situation, however, we cannot forget that September is also the month of school and kindergarten start-ups, children experience these days with excitement, and parents too, since for a long time the start of school also meant a significant fall in the family register: book, school bag, gym equipment purchase, lunch and class money payment. In recent years, however, significant legislative changes and government decisions have taken place, which have made the lives of families significantly easier. Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully ask how many children are affected by free textbook care. The source for children's meals increased by 10 percent this year, from 53 to 58 billion forints, and in the last five years more than doubled. How many children are affected by this increase? The school is for the children, but let's not forget the work of educators who teach them. I respectfully ask if the teachers have received their salary increase this year. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-168	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-28-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would also like to draw your attention to a change of philosophy and your entire parliament before I begin to present the numbers, as we can say that in the past either the provision of free textbooks or the free supply of children on a social basis was only available to the most deprived people, in the previous years or decades. There has been a change in the last two or three years, as we have said that for everyone, these are a kind of family support in the system of free textbooks or free children's meals. Thus, a child can now be expected to receive these services free of charge in addition to other family tax benefits, school support and other benefits. They are transferred from the social care system to the family support system in essence de facto, so that they can get a lot more access, and in fact, textbook provision is now available to everyone in three years under subjective law, and to the upper classes on a social basis. This means that families can save about 20,000 forints every September, at the beginning of the year, and obviously in recent years, as Elizabeth's vouchers, they also receive special support for the start of the school year. For those who had free textbooks, there is a huge rise. I'll just say this year's number: 700,000 people get free textbooks. You have also mentioned that the support for children's meals has been doubled by the government between 2010 and 2014, but this continues, as the increase from 29 billion to 58 billion will increase from 71 billion in the next year, as the wealthiest 10 percent children in nursery and kindergarten will have free meals for everyone. This represents a new opportunity for 170,000 children to eat completely free, and 54,000 children have paid half the price so far and are now getting it for free. Thus, the number of children participating in free children's meals increases by 714 thousand people, by 185 thousand people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As of September this year, teachers have increased their salary by 3.4 percent. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi in return.
u2015-09-28-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I think that the first and most important condition for good government work is that there should be priorities for government work and government activity. On this basis, it is safe to say that the Hungarian government, the government of Hungarian families, has given priority to families and the support of families. A number of other very important measures have also proved this - I refer here to the establishment, development, further strengthening of the family tax system, the accountability of banks, the reduction of the rent, and the expansion of aid for children and children, and I can even refer here to the start-up of the family home-building benefit and, in our hope, to the further development of it. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply, and I wish that the government will further strengthen this policy of family support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-09-28-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look at only one segment of textbooks, textbook supply, textbook market, we can see that Hungary worked with state-owned textbook companies and businesses for a century earlier, and this was covered by the privatization wave that gave the National Book Publisher private hands during the Gyurcsány period. When the Fidesz-KDNP government came back after 2010 and took advantage of the possibility of government, it was one of the first steps of ordering here, since it was a variety of copyright-protected and market-based textbooks, and in the first years it was able to save HUF 1.5 billion annually with a government spending cut of HUF 1 billion, and by saving half a billion forints of family pockets from these extra expenses by returning to the state's textbooking system, there are state textbooks again. Part of these costs only a fraction, like other textbooks, and all are freely used, not protected by different copyrights, but public domain, anyone can download it from the Internet. This is a much clearer relationship than it was before 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Does 200,000 times the concentration of poison in a populated area constitute an emergency? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks for the answer in person.
u2015-09-28-175	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-09-28-176	I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-28-177	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, When the case of Scented Road Poisoners became a national press scandal in the spring, the majority of the government did nothing with the password that there was no disaster, neither health nor the environment in danger. After the public, the press and the responsible opposition still refused to leave the case, the Orbán government acknowledged that there was a need for action. The Prime Minister ordered Sándor Fazekas, Minister for the Environment, to prepare an action plan for damage control, and the transport of the most easily accessible about a thousand barrels of chemicals began. After that, you pretended to solve all the problems. The reality, however, is that nothing has been solved. Soil and groundwater continue to be full of buried, rotted chemical barrels and various dangerous poisons. The Ferencváros municipality recently published, under pressure from the press, the results of the survey that assessed the concentrations of pollutants in the residential area next to the smelly road site of the Budapest Chemical Works. The results are dramatic and scary. In the groundwater, benzene is present in 7300-fold, chlorobenzene is 19 000-fold, dichlorprop is 22,000-fold and aminobenzotrifluoroide is present in the environment by 212 000-fold. These are all highly toxic, carcinogenic, foetal and anti-blood-producing substances. Meanwhile, the authority system, the government, and especially the IX. The district remains inactive. Dear Secretary of State, We would like to know what was included in the remedial action plan prepared by Sándor Fazekas, when they will begin to fully assess pollution, to remedy damage in every detail and to clean up the environment, and who and when will be responsible for the state responsible for this multiple mistreated havaria. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-28-178	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Let's start by clarifying a few things that need to be clarified. We didn't solve anything, you indicated. At the same time, we have shipped hazardous waste for 1.2 billion forints. At the end of your questions, you are calling for public accountability, and you do not even consider the possibility that you should be held accountable for the person who is contaminated at all. Why is it always the state who is innocent in this situation to be held accountable? Since there is no one else to solve it, the state will be left with the solution, but this fact does not arise in its question, and that is a very bad view. I would very much like to ask you to stick to the principle that I think is a very simple and effective principle, and that is the principle of the polluter pays. And if we keep this, I think we can walk on a path that leads to clear accountability relations for everyone. Annex IX is amended as follows: In July 2015, the municipality of the district carried out a study on the contamination of the site. The study was examined by the Environmental and Nature Protection Authority of the Pest County Government Office with several experts. As regards the study, it is noted that based on studies carried out at different times and methods, fair conclusions cannot be drawn, because it is not scientifically sound, it is not conclusive. And this is extremely important when we talk about a very serious matter. When we are talking about a very difficult situation, it is absolutely important that we have the handholds, the results of which we can finally enforce, either in court or at the insolvency court, who is responsible for this difficult situation. Thank you very much for your questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2015-09-28-181	Thank you very much. I would definitely like to respond to two questions. First, it's a matter of responsibility. Secretary of State said the polluter should pay. If we look at the order of responsibility, the government and the state will end up. The state must establish the rules and that if one is to be held accountable, it can be held accountable. If not, the state will have to take responsibility. Therefore, this responsibility cannot be removed. And the other is the precautionary principle. You said you weren't sure about the data you were assessing. But the precautionary principle is very well known in the environment: if these data show this, even if we are not 100% sure, the health of people, the environment, the drinking water base is much more important than delaying the solution. Therefore, immediate action cannot be postponed on this basis, nor on the grounds that there is a shortage of money, because once there is a disaster, it must be resolved.
u2015-09-28-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-183	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that the debtor of the remedial action is currently the Budapest Chemical Works Ltd., and that it is the task of the designated insolvency administrator to ensure compliance with environmental obligations under the special legal regulations of the winding-up procedure. The government office therefore contacted the appointed insolvency administrator. The behaviour of contaminants in environmental elements can be characterised by complex relationships. This system should be examined in the context of a risk assessment carried out in contaminated areas, where potential environmental and human health risks should be assessed, modelled and quantified from the side of impact and impact. To this end, the Government Office sought out the Disaster Protection Directorate, the Water Authority and the Public Health and Safety Authority. I very much hope that the correct assessment of the situation will be resolved jointly by the authorities for the greatest comfort and security for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-28-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å How important are they? It's an address. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to talk about the people who are in schools, kindergartens, educational institutions every day with our children, helping them, who, to the best of their ability, deal with them for most of their time, and without whom the educational institution system would not work. These people are unfairly few people in everyday life: school secretaries, kindergarten secretaries, dormitory secretaries, nurses, labists, administrators, school psychologists, janitors, janitors, accountants, administrators, economic administrators, technical staff. There is little mention of them, and it seems that they are not important to the government either, as the salary of staff directly assisting the teaching-education work has not increased for a long time. On the basis of the public service wage bill, most people receive the guaranteed minimum wage and their situation has been deteriorating ever since the state's reservation. [[14.30]] By the end of 2012, they were employees of the municipalities, they could still get cafetheria, now they don't get it, and they got paid for the extra work, and now they don't get it. At that time, their income could have increased by 20-30,000 forints, and their salary could have been higher. With the nationalization of schools, this has practically ceased. The question arises why they are not given a decent living. Why do you think the salary you're getting is enough for them? A permanent, predictable, adequate, decent salary would be the solution. You can hear that they are now receiving a one-time allowance of HUF 50,000 extra wage. The question is, however, because it is obviously a nice gesture to see whether their salary will also be soothingly increased. The question is also whether public employees transferred to the NGM will receive this salary increase and I will ask the Secretary of State whether these employees can expect a general salary increase. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-28-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-28-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is important to clarify that school workers can be divided into two parts. One part is educators who directly deal with children, and there are others who either assist teachers in their work or do not deal with children in classes and contribute to the school's operation. We said that in the first round, and here I am thinking not only of the employees within the school, but also of the entire Hungarian public sector, we are offering teachers the kind of career that goes hand in hand with a significant wage increase. You know very well that those who work as teachers now earn about 40 percent more than they made 4-5 years ago. After all, we said that those who deal with the next generations every day should be the first to raise their wages. We did this just because the Socialists took a month's wages from them when the 13th month's civil servant wages were withdrawn from the teachers. So we tried to offer them a career of this kind, which has the result, as more people apply for a teaching career and the pedagogical career has greater attractiveness. This occurs in other sectors. However, it is very important that those who work there as non-pedo teachers should, in most cases, be thought of as secondary-educated people, too, to make some progress. And not only because of the family-type tax relief, the public burden that they have to pay is reduced, not only by the normal reduction, which will reduce the public burden by one percent to 15 percent in the next year, but also by additional benefits. Anyone who works at school with a degree in pedagogy, but does not work as a teacher or teacher, will receive a salary from 1 September this year according to grade I, so they have significant progress. And for those who don't have a teacher's degree, we offered them a net one-time bonus of HUF 50,000 this year to acknowledge their work as well. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss in return.
u2015-09-28-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, this 50,000 forints was promised to be received once after the negotiations with the unions, and now, obviously, everyone will be happy, because they will receive one-off help. But they still don't get a general raise. The situation remains that a non-educator civil servant with a secondary education is reported roughly at the minimum wage. This means, in effect, that the employee will receive HUF 100,000 in gross. They get 50,000 forints, no doubt. My question concerns when these workers will receive a general salary increase, when they will finally receive the general salary increase they have long deserved. Nationalisation in the school system has brought only uncertainty to these people and a large part of them a reduction in salaries. When is the government finally gonna pay these people's salaries? [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-28-190	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-191	The payment of these funds is continuing, until 14 September 14, 14,5667 people received an overall allowance of HUF 556 million. We are confident that everyone will receive these amounts on time. During the negotiations with the trade unions, the final amount was established, as they managed to double it, as the original offer was HUF 25,000, and now those who do not have a teaching degree can take twice as much home, but work in schools. The government seeks to launch and continue the policy of wage increases in all areas. You know very well that we have done this in the case of doctors, nurses, we have done it in the case of social workers, with sectoral wage allowances and in other ways. The law enforcement workers, the armed force workers, are the ones who have recently received the career and the increased salary, and the government is making progress. We chose not to reduce wage cuts and tax increases, but to reduce the public burden on work, which was significant, and to increase wages in the public sector, in which we are moving in a schedule, and obviously sooner or later for everyone, we hope that we can guarantee a higher rate of wage increases. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-28-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "Can the people responsible for the red sludge disaster really get away with it? It's an address. The Attorney General has appointed Mr. Ervin Belovics Deputy Attorney General in response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person of the responding [[Lajos Kepli: Yes.]] Or ask the Attorney General himself for an answer. Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-28-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Prosecutor General and Deputy Prosecutor General. On 4 October 2010, in the absence of a week, Hungary's most serious and terrible industrial disaster, the red sludge disaster, during which the settlements of Devecser, Kolontár and Somlóvásárhely were flooded by MAL Zrt. An alkaline red stream escaped from its reservoir, and in doing so, the work of lives was destroyed, many lost their entire lives, and many lost their lives, as this red sludge disaster resulted in the death of ten people. Let us not forget this, because it is a very serious case, a serious one. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary initiated the establishment of a committee of inquiry in Parliament immediately after the disaster occurred, which, thanks to the composition of the Parliament at that time, could start its work and finished it a few years ago. He put a report on the table in which we compiled, based on what the dozens of people heard, what could have been the cause of the disaster and what the Parliament had to do to prevent such disasters in the future. However, a country is waiting for the criminal proceedings to have some tangible result after five years, since it has not yet reached the Court's judgment at first instance. In fact, just a few weeks ago, the prosecution, the prosecutors, had changed the indictment, and reportedly reduced the indictment in the media, since the indictment was no longer a death-related, but merely a material threat to the indictment, as the indictment indicated that the disaster had not been predicted. And they're no longer accusing the defendant of failing to provide immediate assistance after the disaster has occurred. This makes me extremely concerned that, as in so many cases over the past decades, there has been another smearing of a criminal case. That is why I would like to hear a reassuring reply from Deputy Attorney General on the matter whether everything was technically appropriate with regard to the amendment of the indictment. Thank you, I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reassure you in advance that the D.A.'s view is that criminal prosecution cannot be avoided by those responsible for the red sludge disaster. Indeed, on 5 June 2011, the prosecutor's office filed an indictment against 15 defendants, in particular for high-value public risk, negligence in the environment, or negligence in the nature of damage. The indictment includes MAL Zrt. the failures of its leaders prior to the disaster leading to the breach of the dam and their behaviour in the event of a disaster. The case, as Congressman said, is currently in court. As a result of the evidence procedure, on 13 August 2015, the prosecutor amended the charge by extending, I repeat, the scope of misconduct on the part of the defendants. On the basis of the changes in the facts, the negotiator considers that one of the burdened responsibilities of the court can be found in the misdemeanor of careless public harm, in addition to the crime of public harm which was the subject of the original charge. Thus, the amendment of the charge did not result in a reduction in the criminal liability of the accused. In the indictment, the D.A.'s office filed a motion for imprisonment for all the defendants. I can also inform the Member that the court has set a trial for 30 October 2015. Thank you very much. [[14.40]]
u2015-09-28-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-09-28-197	Thank you very much for your answer. With greater comfort, I would hear only if there was a judgment, so five years after the disaster occurred. Hopefully this will happen in the near future. I think that this - I say it again - is a country's public opinion. There are very serious psychological and other injuries that have occurred in this terrible disaster. It is very outrageous at times that the behaviour of the defendants, even in the last case, that what was natural a few years ago, now revealed in the press, has led them to react to them that they wish to sue me for defamation, for which I told the real facts that were in the report of the Committee on Red Sludge a few years ago, and which was accepted by a large majority of Parliament. So that's where we're at instead of getting a verdict, they're shooting backwards and trying to charge us. I very much hope that a truly exemplary and dissuasive judgment will put an end to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To be honest, I very much hope that this year we will have a first-rate court ruling. I can only repeat that, in my view, the defendants cannot avoid criminal prosecution, and I can also assure you that the prosecution will do everything in its power to ensure that the law is fully enforced. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-200	I would like to thank the Deputy Attorney General for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Representative László Varju has applied for a post-meeting speech, independent. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. The subject of his statement:. The questions relating to the refugee situation. You have the floor.
u2015-09-28-201	Mr President, Dear House, Today was an event that should encourage me to present a new situation compared to the title. Since May, it has been clear in Parliament that we have had an initiative that could have been brought before this House in order to fundamentally improve the situation of workers. Today, the committee responsible has chosen to reject this initiative by voting for a majority of pro-government representatives and to make it impossible to negotiate it. This means that, in essence, these three initiatives, which were primarily about - or partly about - the wage of workers, i.e. the minimum wage, should be equal to the minimum wage and should be achieved gradually over the years, were not supported by the committee. In addition, given this period of time, the government itself took advantage of the opportunity, and I hope that it was not due to this initiative, but the Hungarian Central Statistical Office has abolished the conditions for calculating the minimum living. In this way, he got rid of this problem in such a way that instead of giving people with low incomes the opportunity to catch up, instead he tried to free the country from sight, there should be no minimum of existence, and then there is no interest, there is no such problem. This happened in circumstances where the attitude of the government or the attitude of some of its actors appeared in the few sentences when it was said that some goats and goats could live on up to 47,000 forints. I respectfully point out that this procedure is unacceptable, that we object to it, and that it is one of those issues that is actually before Parliament. The same possibility...
u2015-09-28-202	Honourable Congressman, I must inform you - I have never spoken, nor will I say anything before or after the agenda - that the subject of your speech is: Questions relating to the refugee situation. Please, get to the point.
u2015-09-28-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If only on this subject, since today's events have been about this, I would like to take the rest of my two minutes on this subject. Please give me the opportunity.
u2015-09-28-204	Congressman, I have to stick to the house rules. I've been waiting a long time for you to get to the point. Please get to the point. You have given me the subject of your speech on an exceptionally urgent public matter, please be kind enough to come to that.
u2015-09-28-205	Thank you for the opportunity. I don't want to live with that anymore. Next time, I'll tell you about your activities on this subject. Thank you.
u2015-09-28-206	Thank you. Of course, you have the right and opportunity to do so in the Hungarian Parliament, but the house rules must be observed. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for a post- agenda address:.A city the size of Balassagyarmat dies annually with the title of respiratory diseases. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-28-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Autumn and winter are coming, when we do a lot of work on respiratory diseases, either because of our own illness or because of advertisements or reports that often occur in the media. It is therefore worth drawing attention to the big guns of respiratory diseases. This is also the purpose of my speech, precisely to raise awareness in the audience. I am very pleased that young people are listening to this speech from the gallery, because it can be very important for them, too, to be aware of the serious consequences of respiratory diseases. On 21 September this year, the Statistical Office of the European Union published, on the basis of a report from the national agencies, a statement stating that in 2012, three years ago - since there are no more recent statistics - 670 thousand people died of respiratory disease in Europe, of course chronic obstructive respiratory disease and respiratory cancer, because these two are being examined by the European Union. But the figure, the 670 thousand people every year, is shocking because in the entire European Union, so many inhabitants die of disease every year, as if Nyíregyháza had been depopulated six times a year. Lung cancer was responsible for 40 percent of deaths, or 268,000 people, while 19 percent died of pneumonia, 1 percent died of asthma, 24 percent died of bronchitis. Diseases of influenza, and this is quite surprising, only 0.3 percent affect fatal diseases. It is even more shocking that the greater majority of deaths occurred among men, men overtake women in the death of lung cancer, while nearly 186 thousand men die of this disease, and at EU level, women can only put 82 thousand - the only one that can be put in parentheses. With the exception of bronchitis, however, there is a greater number of female deaths in everything else. In Hungary, 56 percent of respiratory diseases are caused by cancer, which, unfortunately, is very high at EU level, and unfortunately, we fill the non-famous third place behind Estonia, Latvia, but we are equally ill in bronchitis. In pneumonia and flu to give you some good news, but there are no better figures than Hungarian numbers. The least people die of pneumonia and influenza in our country at EU level. The gender rate in our country is also not very good, as nearly 9,500 of our fellow men are dying of respiratory disease, while 6,200 of our women are lost every year in these diseases. The overall picture is therefore quite mixed. In some areas, we are devastatingly ill, and in other areas we perform extremely well. It is worth looking at, as it can be prevented, and it is worth raising awareness of the potential options for preventing the disease. There are two very important areas, called primary, primary prevention, in which the cause of the disease, known as the elimination of the real prevention. This could be the fight against tobacco in charge of diseases, where there is no need to be silence, progress has been made in recent years, but further progress is needed. On the other hand, it is very important to improve working conditions where, for example, such as the elimination of certain risk factors, such as exposure to air pollution or particularly dangerous harm, nitrogen oxides, the reduction of the presence of sulphur dioxide in the working conditions or in natural conditions. [[14.50]] Secondaryly, the solution could be secondary prevention, i.e. secondary prevention. The disease has already developed here, but screening and detection are needed as early as possible in the preclinical stage, and therefore it is particularly important to support public health. Of course, disease prevention is varied, as the disease itself is changing, but in any case what needs to be mentioned is the fight against smoking and the call for smoking data. Smoking is the most important, as the University of Debrecen has shown, that smoking cessation is the most effective independent method to reduce the risk of developing respiratory diseases and to prevent progression. [[István Szávay nods.]] By the way, my fellow Member nods in this as a practicing smoker, so that it is best to prevent all kinds of... [[On the signal of István Szávay:]] He doesn't smoke anymore, so here's where we congratulate him. Discontinuation of smoking, however, may delay or prevent the development of restrictions on airway flow, the onset of symptoms and may also have a significant impact on mortality. So the conclusion is extremely important, it is worth stopping smoking, it is worth paying attention to our airways. Take care of your breathing, take care of yourself, clean air, good living can save lives now. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has withdrawn her intention to speak. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title "I." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-28-209	Mr President, Dear House, Several times we have indicated here, in the House's walls, that what is going on in the face of a migration crisis is practically an invasion and a population exchange, where, unfortunately, there are still political forces who would relocate here, knowingly or actively, contributing to larger masses. I am obviously thinking, first of all, that it appeared in the press organ of liberal dwarf parties that, in addition to the right to vote, they would provide migrants with a local government tenement and a place of establishment, but we should not ignore that, thanks to the incomplete legislation of the Fidesz-KDNP, a migrant who has already had a positive assessment of his request could vote in municipal elections. So it can be said that it is not excluded that in the future, in Hungarian small settlements or even larger ones, a decision about Hungarian places, positions or the position of the distribution companies of resources should be made by a person who is not from this country, who was not born here, and should not be here. In the meantime, let us say that one of Jobbik's most important initiatives, which concerns volunteering, would not only concern the introduction of a kind of voluntary military service, as a third line of defense behind the existing two, in order to complete the protection of the border or be complete, more precisely. At the same time, this should be complemented by calling our soldiers home to protect Hungarians from Afghan migrants, not from foreign missions, such as Afghans. In terms of volunteering, we have not only thought about the soldiers, but we have put an initiative that creates cohesion on the table, which aims and makes sense that those civilians, those Hungarian citizens who have the necessary qualifications, plus a moral certificate, can contribute to this very noble task of border protection. Thus, those who are engineers can contribute to the building of fences, who have a nursing degree, and so on, a number of tasks can be imagined that make Hungarian citizens clearly fit to contribute to this very noble goal. At the same time, this concerns the removal of external danger. There is a clear need to reduce the external threat, but there is an internal danger that has already been mentioned in this House today, and the fact that, in terms of deportations or quota-like solutions, crowds can also arrive from within the European Union, who may not be able to get rid of Hungary, even in case of a deportation option. So imagine, how lifelike it is, that the migrant distributed on the basis of the quota, let us say, in Germany, is told that your request is partially positive, you have found acceptance, but we are not imagining your future in Germany, but rather, let us say, getting you on a train and taking you back to Hungary. I presumably assume that there will be reactions on the part of migrant troops, but let us assume that these people will be able to be brought to Hungary with, say, a faculty aid - I very much hope that we will not, but we will do this thought experiment in science fiction - and then here, during the stay at the designated hostel or camp, they will carry out the procedure that will decide whether or not they can stay in Hungary, what will be their final status by the time of their request. Obviously, since they keep these people in non-closed hostels until then, they will walk out, they will go back to Germany, they will be held together again, they will be deported here again, and a tens of thousands of specific migrations can develop within Europe over decades. That is why Jobbik says that, in addition to guaranteeing external borders and allowing those with the necessary qualifications and moral certificates to take part in this task on a voluntary basis, internal security cannot be underestimated either. We understand perfectly that the government says that it does not like quota-like solutions, our bigger problem is that if the European Union does do something binding, then the Orbán government has also said that it will comply with this binding order. We, Jobbikos, call on the Government of Hungary to issue a decisive referendum on quota-like solutions in order to get the right legitimacy to go out and slam the table and say that Hungary does not participate in such a solution, Hungary does not comply with such a dictatorship, because there is no financial advantage, there is no price for Hungary to sell its sovereignty and for which it would give up its freedom, it would give up its right to decide to populate its own country with those who belong to it, and with whom it would like, because this election, this decision deserves every nation state. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-09-28-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to state now that the government has asked people about immigration and terrorism in the context of a national consultation - I hold in my hand a copy of the questionnaire [[He's showing it to me.]] - and the 12 questions were answered by 1 million 58 thousand people, and he made his point very clear. The government respects this position and acts accordingly. The point of this position is that Hungary must be protected, the government ensures that the Hungarian people, Hungary, are safe with legal protection, living protection and technical protection. That is why the Hungarian professional staff, whether the police or the Hungarian Defence Office, are working, and I would like to highlight the staff of the Immigration and Nationality Office in this area. Honourable Congressman, I have said the government position on quotas in my response to your comments before the agenda, and I do not want to repeat it, and we will continue to maintain it. However, I would like to reiterate the reason for this historical migration, and how it could be prevented that illegal migrants come to the European Union in the current way. On this issue, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made the Hungarian position clear at last Wednesday's European Council and proposed that the Schengen border of Greece should be protected. This is the key issue, Mr President, because more than 97 percent of Hungary's almost 300,000 illegal migrants have joined the Union from Greece and have met EU rules for the first time and come from Greece to Macedonia, Serbia to Hungary. This route has now changed as a result of the temporary security border closure at the Serbian border, but the point remains that these illegal migrants enter the Union through Greece. So it is very important, and I would like to underline this here too, that borders must be protected by all Member States in accordance with Schengen requirements, in accordance with the Schengen Code. That's the basics. Hungary will respect this EU obligation, as well as all its obligations in the EU, and will ask the rest of the EU Member States to do so. We are confident that on this issue, so that all EU Member States can defend their borders, we can agree on this as soon as possible, because it is in the fundamental interest of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[15.00]]
u2015-09-28-212	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title of the end days of the Hungarian pepper. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-28-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The Hungarian nation boasts a number of traditional products, which I do not exaggerate to say that they have been famous for centuries either in Europe or in the world. It's Pick salami, Tokaji Aszú, Mako Onion or Calocsa pepper. Fortunately, I could continue this list for a very long time. For this reason, the current Hungarian governments have an immeasurable responsibility to do everything in their power to maintain these products and to maintain their quality. In 2012, the Hungarian Gastronomic Association organized a paprika test, carried out with the help of four evaluators, and tried to draw attention to the poor quality of one of our most basic spices in most cases. What is even more terrible, but rather outrageous, is that at 19 samples taken from retail shops, supermarkets, or from underhand, it turned out that there were not only quality problems, but also a large part of the domestic supply is suspected of counterfeiting, since there were also peppers that were made of foreign raw materials and manufactured abroad. In the previous term, my fellow Member, Krisztián Suhajda here in Parliament, expressed the fact that the Kalocsa spice paprika has deteriorated in quality, and asked the government to do something about it, since a prominent Hungaricum was at risk. Three years passed, this year MGE repeated the test, adding new prestigious ratings. This time, 19 samples were tested, and the results were not promising this time. Six spice paprikas were awarded with excellent quality and three more were suitable. It is easy to calculate that 10 of the 19 spices have been found that simply does not pass through the quality fiber. This can cause huge problems in terms of a Hungaricum, as it not only endangers the marketing of quality products, but one of our national treasures can become a buoy. And that puts a lot of decent families, even generations of spice paprika production, in jeopardy. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what steps the government intends to take to protect quality Hungarian spice pepper and to highlight it from the crappy products. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-09-28-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, István Nagy, State Secretary, wishes to answer. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-28-215	Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, The government considers it a priority to increase the population and employment power of the countryside and to improve the quality of rural life. In this, we have an important role to play in all the manual labour-intensive sectors, including, in particular, the development and support of the gardening sectors. In the new rural development programme adopted by the European Commission, EUR 232 million will be available for the development of the gardening sector in the financing of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund. In addition, Hungarian spice pepper growers can expect de minimis support from the central budget this year in case of proof of metal sealed seed use, for which the government provides a national source of HUF 170 million. Hungary's government is committed to supporting quality Hungarian agricultural production. However, the use of certified quality propagating material is essential to ensure the quality of the product. With support from national funds for the use of sealed spice paprika seed, the government intends to take over additional costs for the use of quality seed from farmers, thereby making them interested in the use of high quality propagating material. We are convinced that the Hungarian spice paprika plant can only maintain its position on the export market if it seeks to process high-quality, selected raw materials under controlled conditions, taking advantage of our cultivation capabilities and traditions, without compromise. Only high-quality pepper of guaranteed origin can ensure the competitiveness and livelihood of the sector. The constant mixing of the reputation of domestic spice peppers and cheap, low-quality foreign meals with domestic quality meal bases, which are certainly known to the Member, has been very damaging. Consumer confidence has been shaken, customers do not see the quality guarantee behind the product. The only way to preserve the competitiveness of the domestic pepper seed is if all steps in the production of the product can be monitored and monitored through a quality assurance system built on a whole range of products, from seed to processed meal. It is also important to distinguish the product from the cheap mass product by referring to the individual logo and the origin of the raw material of the product from the raw material of domestic origin in a manner which can be easily distinguished for the customer. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The consumer society can also be encouraged to consume quality Hungarian meal by providing appropriate product promotions and information on quality-proof trademarks. The quality guarantee of a traditional high-quality product is made possible by compliance with the official product specification. With regard to both the Szeged and the Kalocsa spice peppers, the official specifications for the processing of the product and the origin of the raw material in the place of production have been revised and tightened. Thus, it is not possible to place on the market products of low quality foreign origin as Hungarian pepper from Kalocsa or Szeged. Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary will use all means to restore the reputation of Hungarian spice pepper and the volume of cultivation to its rightful place. To this end, it will make producers interested in the use of quality seed, and will significantly reduce the possibility of damaging the reputation of high quality Hungarian spice paprika with a strict quality system of quality. In this way, the sale of high-quality flour can ensure an excellent profitability by placing on the market at high prices while ensuring an adequate promotional background. I hope my words are reassuring to you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-28-216	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. In addition, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of Jobbik, asked to speak after the agenda, with the title of the international consultation, "The National Consultation" - it doesn't matter. I repeat: "The National Consultation." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-28-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is also important to clarify that this is a national consultation because, thank God, Secretary of State Kontra brought in the questionnaire at that time as a rifle, and therefore he will also be of assistance in answering the present agenda. I very much hope and I very much expect you to be able to develop a dialogue between us in this sense, because I would like to continue in practice where my fellow Member Z. Karpat stopped, namely, what was in fact contained in the questionnaire on a particular national consultation and what was the result of it. The result was - I quote Prime Minister Viktor Orbán - the Hungarians decided not to have illegal immigrants. As this was the result of this national consultation in a very large proportion, I understand that more than 90 percent of Hungarian citizens responded to your suggestions in this sense, it was a surprising turn of events that, after Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced this, the government decided a few days after that and wished to do exactly the opposite, i.e. he decided to build more refugee camps. But let's call them the migrant settlements, because they are much more expressive of the situation that these so-called refugee camps would reflect. All this has been done by the government without involving the communities concerned, without sufficient preparation. This was the case with Martonfa, but so was the case with Sorma. Both small settlements, and the government, we can say, have taken advantage of the situation of small settlements and their lack of interest in them. That is why there was extreme indignation at the village forum on August 1st, where I myself was there in the morning hours. On Friday, they heard the news, and on Saturday morning, the villagers gathered. So I was able to attend this village meeting, and we could say that we held another national consultation, because those who were local residents said that they answered the question you raised, and they said that they expressed that they were not asking for migrants, that they were not asking for illegal immigrants in Hungary. [[15.10]] And they didn't understand the government's decision, with shock, we can say. I would like to present to the House the results of the small national consultation conducted there. On the one hand, they decided not to want a migrant colony in Martonfa and its surroundings. We also asked another question, and this was that if the government wanted to set up such a migrant colony anywhere else and find no place for it, then this should be Felsút, and Pancho Arena, install illegal immigrants, see what Felsút's people will say. After that, for seven weeks there was an ongoing protest in Martonfa, and they also clarified their commitment to the extent that they did not want a migrant colony in Martonfa. But let me mention even such a bad example, if I have already said Martonfa and Sormas, this was Budapest, there - thank God - a three-day protest action was enough to allow the leadership of Budapest to see that it would be a pointless and harmful initiative to set up a migrant colony in the downtown of Budapest called any name. Overall, therefore, we can say that common sense has now won and Jobbik has won, because Viktor Orbán and János Lázár himself announced recently last week that there will be no migrant settlement in Hungary. We hope that these words will not be altered, withdrawn, or again deceived by Hungarian people. And since the issue of quota has been raised here: a number is already known in relation to the quota in Hungary, and I am very sorry that Mr Tállai, State Secretary, has just gone out, because he has signed the NGM ministerial decision that 59 thousand asylum seekers from third countries, let us call it, allow migrant employment in Hungary in 2015. I am very sorry that you fled the house of the country, Mr. András Tállai, State Secretary, before he could give you an answer. It is feared that this 59 thousand migrants will work in Hungarian public employment, because we know that long-term public employment contracts can only be signed by Hungarian mayors, both 3200 in Hungary today if they undertake to employ migrants. It's a shame! Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-28-218	Thank you very much, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I now give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to reply on behalf of the government.
u2015-09-28-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to say that the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to serve the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. This applies to all Hungarian settlements and applies to all citizens living in Hungary. That is what we have done so far, and that is what we are doing about the future. As far as the issue of migrants is concerned, we have already said several times, and I repeat that the government's aim is to ensure that no one enters Hungary illegally, in violation of the law. That's why we're working, which is why we've accepted the temporary security lockdown, which is why we've accepted legal protection, and that's why we've decided on a lively reinforcement. We would like to continue this policy in the future. So this is a clear speech, and I think that is what we have set out and that is what we want to achieve. But in order to achieve this, we need European Union cooperation, as I said in answer to the question of my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, that the most important issue - and what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán referred to at the last meeting of the European Council last Wednesday in solving the migrant crisis, in solving the problem - is that we can protect the Greek border so that no one can cross Greece, Greece's borders, Schengen borders. Unfortunately, we have not reached agreement on this issue. We hope that this will lead to success in the future, as it is a key issue. It is also a very important issue that all EU Member States with an external Schengen border should protect their borders. Hungary does so, which is what it expects not only on the basis of the Schengen Code, but also from all EU Member States with Schengen borders. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: That was not the question.]] As far as Martonfa and Sormas are concerned, I would like to say that the government has a clear position, and we have said that we do not want a refugee camp within any inhabited area. The refugee camp planned for these two settlements is located on the outskirts of the two settlements. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior have been consulted several times with the municipalities... [[Mrs Loránt Hegedűs: Viktor Orbán did not say that. Nowhere in Hungary.]] Let me tell you, Congresswoman. I've listened to you, and I want you to respect me by listening to me. So these preparations have been made. But I would like to say that no refugee camp or reception centre was built on Sormas or Martonfa. I would like to say that the government did not think in good spirits that it could lead a refugee camp to these two settlements, but that it was necessary to do so, and if the need does not do so, if it is not necessary, then the government will make the right decision. We're not here yet. During the negotiations, we told the Martonfai, the Sormai, that we would guarantee the safety of the people living in their settlements, and the police had promised us this promise, and if that happens, we will keep it. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would therefore like to note that the Government respects the decisions taken in the national consultation conducted and acts accordingly in relation to illegal migration. I ask you, if you and you consider the safety of Martonfai and the security of the people of Sormos to be important, but also the safety of people living in other parts of the country, then support the bill that the government is proposing for this purpose. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-28-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Kiss, Member of the European Parliament, MSZP: I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-28-221	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, As you know, World Animal Day has been celebrated worldwide since 1931, including in Hungary for a few decades. The actuality of this is that Saint Francis Assisi, one of the patron saints of animals, died on October 3, 1226 in honor of him, the World Animal Day was established in 1931. Initially, conservationists tended to focus on the protection of wild animals, but in the last few decades, pets also received great emphasis. So roughly, it can be said that every animal, living with us, can be the world day of the animals around us on October 4. St. Francis of Assisi, as known, was a monk of Italian origin, founder of the Franciscan Order, and our present pope took the name Ferenc out of respect for him. Most of the stories about him show that he loved animals and nature, not only for the benefit of humans. Generally speaking, I had a Polemic with Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén on the relationship between faith and animals in the summer, and I would also recommend this speech to him, and it might be good to hear it, but I am happy to say it here. So, returning to St. Francis of Assisi, a number of stories have survived about him, about his special relationship with animals. One day, when he and his companions were on the road, they stopped by the trees along the road, where many birds sat, and Ferenc told his companions to wait until he went to preach to his brothers. When he approached them, the birds surrounded him, all of them watching his voice, none of them flying away. Another story, another legend connected to the city of Gubbio, where St. Francis lived for a while. The town was terrorized by a cruel, bloodthirsty wolf. St. Francis, to save the inhabitants of the city, went up to the mountain, found the wolf, and talked to him, told him not to go to the city, and not to terrorize the citizens of the town. It was said that the wolf closed his jaw and lay down at the feet of St Francis, and then came peacefully down to the town, where everyone was astonished at the miracle. Saint Francis said that the animal was only bloodthirsty because of hunger, and from then on he was regularly fed. So he never attacked any more animals or humans. However, this story is also a good example of what we would say now that it is responsible for keeping animals, or that if we treat our environment properly, our environment is also appropriate for us. [[15.20]] But a good example is that when St. Francis was dying, he thanked his donkey on his deathbed for serving to carry him everywhere, and the donkey was crying next to him, as I recall. Well, from these stories too, it is clear how and how we should relate to our environment, how we should relate to the animals or creatures around us. CHAPTER XXI You can see how right St. Francis was when he saw these questions, because somewhere in the human world we can see how we treat our environment, the world around us, how interested we are in how well this world should be, how interested we are in the people around us. It cannot be enough to emphasise the issue of responsible livestock farming, as I believe that it should be emphasised even in schools much more than it currently is, and it must be said that everyone only takes care of an animal if they are able to do so fully. But it is also a state task to act hard against all forms of animal cruelty, and I think that there is something more to be done in Hungary today. Dear House, Many people think that this is a marginal issue, because it is a less important issue, and there may be more important things before us. That might be true. However, for a minute, let us consider that if we treat our environment better, if we treat our animals better, if we take greater responsibility for them, then the whole country, the whole world, will be a little better, and that will make us better. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-09-28-222	Thank you, Congressman László Kiss. On behalf of the Government, István Nagy, State Secretary, will give his speech and answer.
u2015-09-28-223	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, I very much appreciate you bringing this subject to this House, but let us begin by setting a principle. It is a very wrong idea to confront hunters and animals, because wildlife management is a very important part of the ecosystem, and I would specifically like to point out to you that hunters are not enemies of animals, but regulates and maintain that they can live properly in an appropriate ecosystem, in a given habitat. As we approach the World Animal Day, which has now been celebrated by animal-loving people around the world on 4 October for 84 years, let me briefly sum up our wallet's work in recent years to protect animals and its most important achievements. Animal protection issues are extremely important to our wallet, so we will do our best to ensure the well-being of the animals living in Hungary. This is also reflected in the legislative system of recent years. One of the most important legislative changes in the area in recent years has been the need to microchip every dog over four months of age from 1 January 2013 and to record their data in a national database. As a result, some two million animals have so far been identified. The only reliable and humane means of keeping the population of stray dogs and cats and preventing unwanted reproductions is the neutering of animals. Recognizing this, the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Food Chain Safety have concluded an agreement with the Faculty of Veterinary Science of St. Stephen's University, in which the University carries out the neutering of thousands of dogs living in an orphaned, approved animal shelter with the participation of veterinary students. The Agreement was concluded on 4 October 2013 on World Animal Day. The aim of the programme is to increase the chances of the animals being adopted and to encourage responsible livestock farming. In view of the positive experience of the neutering programme, discussions will also take place as far as possible. In view of the fact that the majority of animals in our country are farm animals, in addition to pet animals, their well-being should be taken into account. This is the purpose of applying animal welfare responsibility to large numbers of livestock farms in Hungary from 2013 ahead of EU legislation, in a forward-looking manner. It is his responsibility to monitor and facilitate compliance with animal welfare legislation laying down animal housing conditions and to provide the persons responsible for the care and supervision of animals with instructions and guidance on animal welfare and to provide annual training to the workers of the livestock establishment. Another important animal protection result is the sale of fish from fish shops and commercial establishments since last year only after stunning to ensure that the fish is unconscious. The animal protection authority shall make every effort to ensure that animal welfare standards for farmed animals are complied with. To this end, it shall pay particular attention to the monitoring of establishments presenting an increased risk of animal welfare. Positive feedback from the European Commission's Food and Veterinary Office audit shows the success of the Authority's work. Given that proper treatment of animals is primarily the responsibility of the farmer, the agricultural portfolio and the Nebih consider it particularly important to develop attitudes on responsible livestock farming, which they wish to achieve by bringing various programmes to life. These include the "Free" program, including the "Visitor-partner" project to help train guide dogs. The current draft regulation on detailed rules for the use of live animals as prize prizes is also intended for the welfare of animals. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-09-28-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech on the date of ecological debt. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-28-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We must have gotten used to devoting a day to every important thing in the year. There is Earth Day, World Environment Day, Birds and Trees Day, World Water Day, Soil Day, Biodiversity Day, to list only those related to the environment. However, there is one day that does not have a specific day in our calendar, this day is linked to a different date each year. This is the day of our environmental debt, and it falls to the calendar day when our ecological capacities dedicated to that year are exhausted. From this day forward, we will take away the resources of nature from future generations and reduce their future life and well-being. The determination of this occasion is linked to our ecological footprint. Our ecological footprint summarises the environmental pressures of individual people, different societies and global human society, expressed in size. The environmental pressures of individual nations, expressed in territorial size, can be compared to the territorial dimensions of the country in question, as the space needs of all mankind can be compared to the size of the globally available area. In the original interpretation of sustainable development, it means that we use the environmental goods that mankind has taken to the extent of their renewal in order to meet the basic human needs tomorrow and in the future at any time. In the history of mankind, in many cases individual peoples have used up their own resources and, with their strength, have colonized the resources of others. And those who lived in a balanced environment did not squander their possessions and became defeated. Thus, not the culture of a sustainable lifestyle has proved successful, but paradoxically, those who have reached out to mankind's common possessions in an unsustainable way have gained power. There were cultures that destroyed themselves, but mankind as a whole was never in a position to overuse our planet's resources. However, by increasing our technical capabilities - what many call development - and in parallel with the growth of the population, we have reached the point that, for the first time in history, we have exceeded the ecological capacities given by our planet, that is, we have used more natural resources than we could replace. We emit more greenhouse gases than the soil or oceans will absorb, we will destroy more species than it produces, we will degrade more soil than it renews, we will extract more water from the Earth's layers than it can replace, and I can tell you more. The calculation of ecological footprints to measure our ecological excesses is managed by the global ecological footprint network. This year, the days of ecological debt were clarified based on a new model. We first passed the one-planetary lifestyle in 1970, then 23 December was the day of ecological debt. [[15.30]] In 1980 we were already on November 3rd, in 1990 we exceeded the ecological limits of our planet on October 13th, October 4, 2000, August 28, 2010 and August 13th this year. Dear Parliament, When a population used up its environment, it moved on, looking for a different place in the world. When mankind lives out its surroundings in planetary size, where will it go? At present, mankind's hunger could be satisfied with the ecological capacity of one and a half planets, and would demand two planets by 2030 as demand increases. But as we know now, there are no habitable planets near us. In the meantime, however, here on Earth, there are masses of people leaving in the hope of a better life, and the problem they cause will silence those who speak out for the future generation. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2015-09-28-226	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, István Nagy, State Secretary for Agriculture, tells his thoughts.
u2015-09-28-227	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, It is a regrettable fact that every year, the day that the Earth consumes its annual renewable capacity comes earlier. As reported by the international organisation dealing with this, this day fell on August 13, 2015. The state of ecological overshoot occurs when human needs exceed the capacity of nature. Global overshoot occurs when human resources and waste production exceed biosphere regenerative and absorption capacities. The ecological footprint is the extent to which a specific individual, population, organisation or activity requires a biological productive area in order to cover its material and energy consumption and to assimilate its emissions in addition to current technological standards and resource management solutions. Ecological Overshoot Day marks the day in a given year when mankind's demand for ecological resources and services exceeds the Earth's ability to regenerate for the same year. At present, humanity can sustain this deficit by starting to capitalize on natural capital and hoarding waste, primarily by over-emissions of carbon dioxide, resulting in the enrichment of the atmosphere. Based on data from the 1961-2011 period on our country's ecological footprint and biocapacity, it can be concluded that the two indicators are closer together, which can be assessed as a positive direction. The problem is not unknown to the government, which, according to the Parliamentary Decision on the National Environment Programme 2015-20, has taken the following measures to address, protect and ensure the sustainability of natural resources. We have developed Hungary's Natura 2000 priority action plan. The main objective of the plan is to strengthen the role of Natura 2000 sites at local level in socio-economic development and job creation. We consider further progress to be made in the use of non-refundable compensatory aid from European Union funds for environmentally sustainable farming, including grassland and forestry, by farmers operating in the Natura 2000 network. In order to protect and maintain the unique natural values in the Carpathian eco-region, the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Carpathians was concluded for the sustainable use of their habitats. The National Nature Reserve Basic Plan adopted by the National Assembly on 9 June 2015 prioritises ecosystem services. In order to maintain the systems of living and lifeless natural environments based on the hundreds of thousands of years of harmony, we need to be careful about our natural capital and preserve the existing biodiversity. In addition to the direct economic benefits of nature conservation employment and ecotourism, biodiversity also brings additional economic benefits. The evaluation of the state of their domestic ecosystems and services is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture within the framework of the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme, involving external education and research institutions. As a hundred dear Members, it is safe to say that at this standard of living, at this level of development, if we do not voluntarily give up our possessions - some of our possessions - and we will continue to walk on the path of accumulation and wealth growth, then this planet will certainly not be enough, and even in our lives it will have irreversible effects on our lives. Thank you very much for your speech.
u2015-09-28-228	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Committee met this morning; the next extraordinary meeting of the autumn session will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:36 p.m.]]
