u2015-10-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Welcome, fellow Members. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Moring József and Adam Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting to help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we will begin our work with speeches before the agenda, then we will start with questions from noon to 2:30, and we will have an hour of immediate questions and answers from about 1:30 to 3:00, and then we will continue our meeting with political debate, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Who are being forced abroad? Who will remain on the side of the road? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-10-26-1	Mr President, Dear House, In Hungary today, there is no doubt a housing crisis, where more and more young people, but not only young people, middle-aged people and older people, find themselves in a situation where they simply face an unrealistic burden of maintaining or maintaining a mere housing. In a previously overtaxed economy, these unrealistic costs arise, where, on the basis of the OECD's statement, a two-seeker, unfortunately, is no longer typical, but it is ideal for a family to say that the fourth grossest tax burden is on Hungarian taxpayers for the countries under investigation. In the last year and a half, there has been a clear increase in the prices of apartments. In the capital city, the rents increased by about 40-60 percent in a year, and this occurs in an environment, in addition to the fact that the average wage in rural cities is HUF 155 thousand net, according to the Statistical Office's calculations, the average rent in Budapest is between HUF 110 and 150 thousand, plus rent. As I mentioned, rural cities have similar problems along supply constraints, and it also contributes to the problem of the fact that many people who have been forced to give up their homes after an unimaginably unsuccessful currency settlement have been forced to rent, and even see signs of a phenomenon in which the residents of the inner districts who are in a difficult financial situation are renting out their homes to foreigners and moving out to either the periphery or the periphery, in order to preserve at least part of their former standard of living. The problems are compounded by the expansion of accommodation-sharing sites, which, according to their own declaration, only narrowed the supply with 4500 apartments in Budapest. Note here that according to professional comments, two thousand apartments in San Francisco have already caused serious price problems and price uplifts. We do not say, Jobbik, that the problem is with the web pages themselves; we say that the government would be expected to deal with these huge price drive effects and indeed intervene in the event of such supply scarcity. At the same time, according to NGM's leaks, because we cannot yet report on action on you in five years, they are going in the wrong direction. In addition to addressing the situation around accommodation-sharing sites in a debate-based manner, they would be regulated, and they could not, in fact, present any valid ideas. Berlin started on the road to maximizing the prices of the apartments, but we must say that with this only the black economy is likely to grow in Hungary, and at the level of the phenomenon, we would not be able to provide more serious life opportunities. And Jobbik is the 21st. As a party of the century, it would not be within the scarce supply that it would be possible for tens of thousands of young people to move into apartments far below market prices, but if they were able and willing to comply with the basic rules of co-existence, then these properties could later become their property. It can be said that each budget HUF placed here would generate at least four additional forints within one or two budget cycles. It is incomprehensible why the government is not determined to help Hungarian young people stay home in the middle of an emigration cataclysm in order to facilitate their housing conditions. But if you no longer want to help directly our taxpayers, at least the entrepreneurial sphere could be able to bring at least 5-10 thousand more apartments into Hungary's quotation market annually, thus broadening the supply by reducing the 27 percent brutal VAT of new-built apartments to 5 percent. But it can be said that the government has not been able to act in five years, that the budget does not have a single set of homes, with family home-building benefits and others it has been able to cause a shift within the statistical margin of error, especially to help the more fortunate, but again not just those who really need it. And once again, if Hungarian young people are not offered life opportunities, they do not make their lives easier, they not only contribute to the spin of the emigration spiral, but also make it impossible for Hungary's biggest problem, its demographic collapse and the resolution of the population to develop solutions. Jobbik, therefore, has a ready-made package, a ready-made plan; the question arises whether, after five years of governance, the government has a similar one. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, International migration is an increasingly important issue not only for Hungary but also for the other newly joined countries, Central and Eastern European Member States. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. That's another piece of paper!]] It is worth looking at the means and opportunities of the current government to intervene and what can be seen as a trend in the EU context. The trend is to increase the willingness to move in the catching up countries, which also affects workers in the less developed old Member States. [[Foreman Novak: That's another answer!]] Hungary is not at all wrong in this comparison, and Hungary's migration in the region has been the lowest rate in the last ten years. While the migration rate in Romania is around 10 per cent and in Poland about 6 per cent, i.e. the proportion of emigrants to the working age population, it is 2 per cent. This indicates that the least people have gone abroad from Hungary in recent years. In the meantime, of course, it must be stated that no one was forced to leave the country. The government considers working abroad an opportunity. Labour market tensions arise when migration is one-way and foreign workers do not return. As a result of the economic turnaround in 2013 and the increase in demand for labour, the number of returnees to Hungary has also increased, but the balance is no doubt negative, which needs to be changed. However, migration is not a problem in general, but there are certain well-known professions and groups of professions, where there can really be serious tensions, and there is therefore a need to find a solution for specific areas of expertise. These include health care, IT or engineering. The main direction of international migration is likely to remain so as long as there are large income differences, since the labour market in the new Member States is not yet able to compete with Western European wages. While the pay gap between the countries that joined with us in the EU ranges from 10 to 15 percent, there is a difference of two to three times, even four times, compared to the developed countries. Therefore, it is extremely important to catch up on wages, which clearly reduces the willingness to move and encourages return. The government has done a great deal to promote this return and to make the possibility of keeping it as widely as possible. In consultation with the social partners, he raised the minimum wage from HUF 73,000 to HUF 105,000 in five years, i.e. by 43 percent, from HUF 89 500 to HUF 122 thousand, i.e. the guaranteed minimum wage by 36 percent. As a result, the increase in the net minimum wage, in the case of family tax relief workers, increased steadily and significantly by 15-48 percent between 2011 and 2015, depending on the number of children. The net real value of the minimum wage without family tax relief will increase from 2013 onwards, with a total of around 11 percent over the three years 2013-2015. [[11.10]] With no family discount, real earnings increased by 5.2 percent, especially in families with more than one child, with a 16 percent growth rate for two dependent children and a 37 percent real growth rate for families with three or more children. Average earnings are expected to continue to increase in 2015, so the indicators and figures are good, and these certain scissors are hopefully not going to grow anymore. Following the establishment of a fiscal balance in the public sector, real earnings have continued to increase since 2013 and real earnings have increased by 12% in 2013-2014 in two years without public employment. We know that young people have the greatest willingness to emigration, and therefore support for young people's employment is very important. I would like to say that already in 2012 we introduced the first job guarantee programme, and from 2013 onwards, young people are also one of the priority groups of the action plan for the protection of jobs. The Action Plan currently provides employment support for 150,000 young people under the age of 25, and it is no coincidence that the youth unemployment rate above 30 per cent has fallen significantly below 20 per cent. We expect further substantial employment growth from the Youth Guarantee Programme. Finally, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the first time since accession to the EU, this government has developed a programme to facilitate the return of young people working abroad with a budget of HUF 100 million. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The government therefore treats working abroad not differently but as a chance, and makes every effort to ensure that the programs, the ideas you have formulated (the president, by jogging the bell, indicates the time has passed. ), sooner or later they will be introduced and we will look at other options to help you stay at home. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Bernadett Szél, LMP Group also applied for a pre-meeting address on the incorrect definition of the target group for EU energy efficiency aid. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-26-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I come to you with a very specific problem. Here we are at the beginning of the heating season, at the time when Hungarian families usually get sick when they think about how they will heat their own home in winter. It is no wonder that Hungarian households heat twice as much in the winter months as Germans or Austrians, and yet the homes remain colder than us. The reason for this is poor insulation. In principle, the government is aware of the situation, as the survey is at its disposal, according to which two thirds of homes in this country need to be renovated in terms of energy efficiency, but they also know that 87 percent of Hungarians do not have any savings, so the self-strength renovation is a dream. By the way, you have sensed this situation, as they have also set aside HUF 130.3 and HUF 88.7 billion for Hungarian families in the HUHOP and GINOP programmes. In addition, this important objective has been identified in the strategic documents, quite rightly. But the praise ends here, because the last few weeks have been exactly what the government has decided not to give this money to the Hungarian families. Now, they didn't go next door for lying, they said Brussels wouldn't allow it. But that's not true! I've got that document in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] , which contains the Commission's rebuttal and which clearly states that there is an opportunity from Brussels to use EU funds directly for energy efficiency renovation by households. You referred to the EC regulation 1303. We've looked into it, examined it, and there's no clause in it that virtually forbids the help of families. So obviously we are facing a situation where the government's decision is the government's own decision, which means that you will not give the money to the Hungarian families to replace the windows to seal their houses. You simply decide not to devote EU funds to this purpose. Now, why? Here comes the question of why the Hungarian government decided to do so. On the one hand, it is clear that if the Hungarian families were to receive the money, it would be more difficult to steal it. Think about it, there will be public procurements here with selected contractors, so Fidesz-KDNP would be badminton again, and Hungarian families may be anxious to either heat their homes or buy their children new boots because of such decisions. The other thing that's changed, and you've got to see that the oligarch war has started, and obviously you need every penny to raise the new bandits, and the families don't have any money. The LMP expects Fidesz to stop this outrageous lie, stop saying that one day he's gonna give the money to the families so they can finally isolate their houses properly, and then he's gonna say he doesn't, and he's gonna pin it all on Brussels. We clearly see and have also looked into this, Honourable Parliament, that there are programmes in the Member States of the Union that directly deliver EU funds to households for energy efficiency renovation. It's an existing practice, but we just need to establish a basis for it. I expect you to create this fund, as in many places in the EU, put in the full resources of the COHEP and GINOP and give it to the Hungarian families. You promised me that. Don't lie, now come up with the freedom fight, find a solution, and give it to the families. They also need to see that the national economy could profit a great deal from such a programme. Our vulnerability, our energy poverty, our dependence on imports and the country's foreign policy vulnerability would be reduced, there would be less pollution, because we all know that energy is the most environmental protection we are not using. A large number of small and medium-sized enterprises across the country could get jobs through the thermal insulation of houses and the replacement of windows. In addition, I must add that even the failed and increasingly scandalous Paks expansion would not be necessary if the energy efficiency of Hungarian households were brought to the Austrian level, according to the calculations of one of the government's background institutions, one and a half decks of energy could be saved in this country. This means a minimum of HUF 4,000 billion, which will save about HUF 1 million per household, with the European Union's money. So to sum up, you promised the Hungarian people that they would receive EU money to renovate their homes and modernise their energy efficiency. We know that there are systems in place for this in many Member States. You are not studying this, you are fighting for freedom, you are pulling your shoulders and you are telling the Hungarians that they are sorry, but they are not. Why, Honourable Government? You want to take this money, too? Why can't Hungarian families get this money? Be kind and answer, but do not refer to Brussels or the Union, because we have looked into it, and all your words about it are lies.
u2015-10-26-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy wishes to respond to what has been said. Before you begin to answer, Mr Secretary, I would like to ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he accidentally pressed the order of business button. [[Sallai R. Benedict: No.]] No, then, Mr. Secretary, I'll give you the floor at the end. Thank you.
u2015-10-26-7	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government is, and will continue to be, a fundamental question of reducing the cost of household wages, living costs and home-keeping costs. An important part of this is the energy cost, the energy cost, which the current government has made significant, substantial and hundreds of billions of forints available to reduce since 2010. You know very well that we have not yet paid for energy efficiency proposals with European money, but with the support of the CO2 quota available, which, by the way, has been reduced due to the reduction of sales and domestic sources, and has not yet been supported by European money. The second question is: over the past few years, in addition to the fact that there has been a significant over-promise before 2010, so in 2010, 11 and 12 we had to fulfill the promises and unfulfilled promises of previous governments first, but after that it has been possible for hundreds of thousands of families to achieve or ensure the energy savings that you advocated by modernising homes. At the same time, I have to add, and I'm sorry, your suggestion is not correct in this respect, because Hungarian families have not only spent money on support to modernise their homes, but tens of thousands of families, one or two hundred thousand families have provided this from their own savings and from their own strength. [[11.20]] It is therefore not true that there is a close correlation between aid, especially EU aid that does not exist before, and housing modernisation. Their goals are common, but your idea of such a thing is a slippery one. The government's concrete and firm aim is to ensure that energy investments are in the best interest of as many people as possible. Not only those who receive support from such or other sources, not only those who can provide this from their own means, but all residents of the country, if possible, are just to not say, receive a fair system of energy efficiency investment. This objective can be achieved by supporting primarily the energy modernisation of public buildings, hospitals, kindergartens and schools from EU grants. These public institutions serve all citizens. The energy efficiency savings of these public institutions can increase their quality of service, which affects all citizens without exception, not just those who are placed in a beneficiary situation by means of one or more tenders. The priority of the energy efficiency renovation of a shared building is also justified by the reduction in budget costs that we can devote to improving these services. In addition - and I think we can count on your agreement here - the government also wants to support energy rationalisation measures for the general public by providing a budget of about HUF 100 billion for the purposes of a reimbursable interest-free loan - so the government is giving interest-rate subsidies - and it is also counting on the private part of the population. This is where the government sees, in particular, the possibility of reducing the costs of energy use, the results of which so far and clearly, I believe, you do not dispute either. So, in 2014-2020, we want to support those who are also involved in the modernisation of their own apartments with a refundable but interest-free loan of about HUF 100 billion. By the way, as far as the measures are concerned, more than HUF 300 billion remain in the pockets of the families, and I am convinced that by doing so, we will be able to ensure this hundreds of billions of dollars in savings in the future, in addition to making the system fairer. Thank you for your attention, Congresswoman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gábor Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on betrayal of the countryside. You have the floor.
u2015-10-26-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I could also say that the Hungarian government is preparing not only to betray the countryside, but also to sell out the future. Why do I say that? What characterizes the countryside in Hungary today? There is unemployment in the countryside, there is depression in the countryside, there is a lack of prospects, tens of thousands of people are wandering from the countryside, and unfortunately I have to say that today they do not stop in the big cities, but mostly in one of the foreign cities, because they do not have any prospects in the countryside. The background to this process is that in Hungary there was a agricultural structure prior to the regime change, which provided people living in the countryside with a livelihood and a predictable existence, not for capital investors to cultivate the land, but for the land to be in public ownership, and for the villages to operate from the goods produced there, they knew the medical care, the health system, the public lighting, the maintenance of roads, practically the village. This system was then destroyed without figuring out what would make the village work instead. Local governments have been created, which have received the tasks, but there has been no opportunity to create value in the countryside, to create employment from something, and to give people a permanent perspective in the Hungarian villages. As a result of this, the village is practically continuously detached, there is a continuous migration, and in agriculture there is a structure in which we can see that there are some large farmers in every village, who are now called family farms, but mostly farm on thousands or thousands of hectares, and most of the land is owned by them, where they mostly carry out industrial crops, highly mechanized industrial crops, where three or four people are enough to grow a thousand hectares. By the way, they live well, they can cultivate the land with good profit, especially after they receive great EU area support for this, while the people living in the villages have no means of living. In order to turn this around, almost a decade ago, many people began to think about what should be done. Especially after we entered the European Union in 2004, these processes accelerated in rural areas, since the European Union has a support system that is particularly harmful to the employment of the countryside, because it favours industrial crop production, because the process in which the gross crop output continued to grow has accelerated after 2004 due to the more favourable support for cereal and oil crops, while the crop production has increased by 30 percent, while livestock production has fallen by 30 percent, and the Hungarian land has given even less and less people a living to live, and the few plant producers who remained have been able to make more and more profitable. Obviously, this is not okay, we have to intervene somehow, we have to stop this process. We presented a proposal for a decision in 2010 and 2012, which was about creating a social economy in the countryside, where people in social cooperatives should be given the opportunity to cultivate land around the settlement, so that we can generate continuous income from meaningful work. At the time, József Ángyán, who was still State Secretary, said in the Commission's debate about our proposal that it is a very good proposal, he has one problem that he thinks it is actually an extract of the government's rural development strategy, and that Fidesz wants to do this. What have we seen since then? In 2014, a new support period could have been introduced. There could have been a system in which we imposed employment on those who farm heavily to employ people, because the support is not to make more money, but to employ more people. That's not what they did. So what do they do now? They want to sell out the last opportunity to intervene in this harmful process, to launch a social land programme, to launch a demographic land programme and to reverse the harmful process that this EU aid policy is doing. You, ladies and gentlemen, are about to betray the countryside and put into the hands of some buddies the last remaining state lands and give up employment in the countryside, make a living, make a perspective. Shame on you for that. We will do everything we can to stop you from doing this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-26-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Márton Bitay responds. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The betrayal of the countryside, the title itself, and what he said, was a bit post-cademic. But what I really don't understand is that you seem to have lost your period before 2010, as if that period had completely disappeared. Speaking of rural depression, migration and unemployment when the number of jobs in rural areas is increasing - but I note this now only in parentheses - when you have closed down all the manufacturing industries, dear congressman... [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Calm down, I've listened to you, too, and I would suggest that we listen to each other, because that might be a dialogue. [[11.30]] How many slaughterhouses have you closed, my dear congressman? How many sugar factories have they closed? How many grapes have they cut? [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] Well, don't joke about getting up and telling us that there's a problem with jobs in rural areas and that the ability to maintain the countryside needs to be improved. Amazing! You've been supporting big plants all the time. They were constantly thinking about large-scale farming. Typically, they were thinking of field farming. Speaking of which, some thoughts about the ground, too. The land was typically leased without a tender. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not true.]] Only in 2009, I understand, Mr. Grimlock, that you're a little nervous, because I wouldn't appreciate it if you put that up. In 2009, you extended tens of thousands of hectares without any tender. Some lucky people have been paid 15,000 hectares on a piece of paper with an extension until 2029 without a tender! [[Zoltán Pride: And how much did they pay for it?]] Dear Congressman, No jobs were required, no jobs were required. They just gave me these fields on a piece of cheese paper. And you're telling us that we don't develop jobs in rural areas when we've imposed the obligation to keep animals on every land contest? ! You've given your social friends unlimited land, you've managed thousands, tens of thousands of acres. We have delivered the eligibility of these areas; you cannot make use of area payments above 1200 hectares. Just what you said, that some large companies receive large amounts of EU funding, we have eliminated it. We have closed completely open land grabbing and land use restrictions and rules from above. We've had this in 2500 hectares before, so we've just taken it down to 1,200 hectares, in special cases to 1800 hectares. For the record, you did not vote for this in the Land Traffic Act. And the 2,500 acres from above were completely open, because the land itself did not count, and the land rented from the state did not count. This is how tens of thousands of hectares of large estates could develop in Hungary. They didn't prescribe any livestock requirements for anyone. [[Zoltán Grimlock keeps interrupting.]] There was no mention that they wanted to create any jobs. They said they gave the land to their friends on cheese paper while they shut down and destroyed the manufacturing industry. In Poland, look at the fundamental difference between our agricultural holdings is that there is a manufacturing industry that they can rely on, which at least provides their own markets. Dear Congressman, When you were in government, the fashion in Hungary in the food chains, at the counters was to advertise foreign products, to look for how customers could buy foreign products. Large multinational investments have been set up so that the medium-quality food produced abroad - I do not want to hurt anyone - has a market that is sold here. Now go in, please, in such a multinational chain of shops, and look at yourself, proclaiming by what percentage of your fresh vegetable or meat supply is what Hungarian goods are! Well, let's not make fun of each other. You have constantly crossed the line to give the land to Hungarian farmers. They didn't vote in favour of the Land Traffic Act because they didn't want to rule out legal entities and foreign speculators. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not true.]] They do not support the land sale program, which will ensure farmers in the long term that the Hungarian land is acquired and that the land is constantly being attacked by the farmer's programme, where, by the way, the 600 former tenants have now been replaced by more than 7500. We've multiplied ten times the number of people using state land. And, dear Congressman, I would just like to point out one important thing to you. We're now at almost 60,000 hectares of a whole balaton-sized area, and only young farmers got it. Only young farmers and start-up farmers were given 20 years of use, just so that they and their families could make a living in the countryside. We would like to continue this programme and ask for your support. With all due respect, I would also like to suggest that Poland should be observed as to where the left-wing populist policy you are pursuing is leading today. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Grimlock goes to Dr. Márton Bitay Örs and shows him a piece of paper, and then they argue loudly.]]
u2015-10-26-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to warn Mr Zoltán Gőgös, while Mr Secretary of State spoke, he kept commenting on it. Please refrain from doing so in the coming period. Congressman Haughty, please take a seat. We'll get back to work. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Would you please take a seat, Congressman Haughty? Please take a seat. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: Where are we? And the Secretary of State?]] I think Congressman left his seat. Have a seat. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Member Mr András Aradszki, KDNP Group also spoke before the agenda, with the title "Migration with a Christian eye." I give you the floor.
u2015-10-26-13	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This weekend, the country remembered the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom. At that time, on October 23, the sense of justice and freedom of the Hungarian people flared up, and he carried out something that brought world glory: he dared to oppose the greatest army in the world at that time, the Soviet. Even for a few days, he's earned his freedom. On 23 October, however, according to the Catholic calendar, we also celebrated a saint who became Hungarian, Giovanni da Capestrano, who arrived in the Kingdom of Hungary in 1455 from Italy, and later Saint John the Capistran. The Council of Constanese has abolished the western rift since 1378, which has made Europe, at least from a moral point of view, a mess. János Kapistrán, as a traveling preacher, brought news of the renewal of the church beyond the Alps. It was then that he began to say that the future of Europe and Christianity depended on helping Hungary because of the Turkish threat. He wrote to the prince of Burgundy, the pope, and the emperor to prepare the rulers to join forces. He himself set out to inspire the Hungarians to fight with his personal presence. At the end of January 1456 the papal envoy was commissioned by Cardinal Carvajal to declare a crusade against the Turks. In March the assembly was called, but orders moved only during April, when news came of the arrival of the Sultan's army. The lords of the country did not understand the sign of time, only Hunyadi, Carvajal and Capistran understood the gravity of the situation. The 70-year-old Kapistra left Buda only on 15 April to declare the Crusade all over the country, but on 2 July an army of 22,000 was gathered, and the number grew to 60,000 in 10 days. They all went into battle because of John's incendiary word and faith. In his opinion, he was indeed the director, leader, judge, captain and commander of all the Crusades. Dear House, Mr President, Although history doesn't repeat itself, only the blind can't see the parallel in this story. As is clear to all thinking people, Europe is not having a wave of refugees, but an occupation disguised as migration. The figure of St. John the Capistran draws attention to the political, social and cultural danger of mass migration. As with his help in 1456, Hungary is still protecting Europe from the threat of invading. Europe is still morally in ruins, and European rulers must still be called upon to join forces. As Hungary's Prime Minister said the other day in Madrid, we are in big trouble. If we look to others for a solution, we become vulnerable. If we don't want that, we have to protect our borders. This is the Christian response to migration, for our culture, traditions, nations, families and ultimately our faith are at risk. And as long as there are people in need, unemployed, starving and homeless, we need to help them in the first place. Those who save their own lives and come to official border crossings with great modesty, asking for reception, will also be helped. They may be subject to the following statements of Pope Francis' Sunday message:. I confess to you that I have compared this prophecy about the people on the road with images of refugees on the roads of Europe: this is one of today's dramatic realities. God also says to them, "They started out in tears, and I lead them back in comfort. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But good must be done with a clear mind and a warm, compassionate heart. Therefore, from those who come here to transform our society, perhaps speculators or terrorists, we must defend ourselves. We, Christian politicians, are contracted to serve the common good, to serve our fellow countrymen and the common good of Hungarian families. It's our primary duty. [[11.40]] And if there is an opportunity to improve the situation of economic migrants at home, we must also do so to enable them to return home. As Pope Benedict explained, there is not only the right to asylum and asylum, but also the right to remain in the country. That's what we need to help them with. To do this, we ask the guiding principle of St. John the Capistran, for whom we will also hear the help of the mediator today:. Whoever gave the beginning will also give the ending. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-26-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2015-10-26-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, No identity can be an identity of a nation or a continent. If we look at history, it was not like this to be the identity of a nation, and in the last decade, many European politicians have proclaimed that we must keep an equal distance from all values and values, and this is the future of Europe. In contrast, we see the future of Europe as a re-exploration and re-existence of Christian values in Europe. There are few things that bring this out as clearly as modern-day population migration, when European culture, European civilisation, encounters another civilization, not in war but in peaceful but quite aggressive circumstances. This Muslim, Islamic civilization - I mention not religion in particular, but the culture and social image of the people coming from it - is now clashing very often, very briefly, to a very large extent with European civilisation. There is a great risk that parallel societies will develop within Europe, because the values of the two civilizations are very different, and the intentions of mass immigrants are clearly not aimed at integration, adaptation, but are here in the hope of a better life. But they do so without giving up their identity, otherwise it is completely different from the European classic value system. The protection of life or equality of human dignity is completely different in European civilisation, in European culture on a Christian basis than in the case of incoming migrants and immigrants. It's enough to think about gender equality and the social image of women, because it's completely different. We have heard many times that even female doctors have been rejected by male immigrants. And human dignity is not equal for people in different social situations, according to their perception. The protection of minorities is completely different in European culture and the approach of people coming in here. With regard to anti-Semitism, it is also important to say that where the number of immigrants is increasing, especially the number of immigrants from the Muslim world, there have been far more atrocities in recent years, and unfortunately there is also a threat of violence in the future, as violence itself is much more acceptable in their society, in their culture than in our European view. Lifestyle is completely different from eating, thinking about life, working, much more. In the relationship between the state and the church, while the model of the separate functioning of the state and the church has been developed in Europe over the centuries, state law is completely divorced from church law, the last such concentration in Hungary has ceased in the 1890s with the separation of the state and church register; contrary, the church norm system and the secular norm system are completely intertwined in the coming Islamic attitude. Thus, the rules of Islamic law are considered to be much more enforceable by a public or Community system. It's enough to think that on a voluntary basis in Wuppertal, they set up their own saria police a year and a half ago. The question of freedom of expression is also important. We certainly consider this to be a protection, but it is not necessarily the case in Islamic states. But if there is freedom of speech and freedom of the press, it should also be borne in mind that while 70 percent of immigrants are men in their 20s and 30s, reports usually only show a large number of elderly people, women or children, thus completely misinformed those who only learn from the visual world of newscasts about the composition of immigrants. This kind of parallel social development is therefore a huge threat. In Europe, Christians in Europe are primarily obliged to accept those who have suffered persecution. But obviously this is also a bilateral relationship, because anyone applying for reception does not break the door down, but knocks on the door. The European door still has a doorknob, there's a doorbell, so first you can knock on the door, push down the doorknob and come in like that, not kick in, break the door down on the people here. In many cases, we have experienced this. It is much easier for those who welcome this help, receive and ask for it, since they can be given this help with Christian love of neighbor. Hungary will do the same, as we have tried to address this issue at several meetings of the Charity Council. In addition to the more than 716 million fixed grants, the government provided 200 million HUF of additional funding to charities, the Maltese Charity Service, the Catholic Charity, and the Voluntary Ecumenical Assistance Organisation, which was able to provide assistance and support to all those in need, precisely thanks to state aid. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-26-16	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Member Peter Hoppál, the Fidesz Group, also came forward before the agenda, with state support to strengthen rural culture - the Modern Cities Programme, Pécs. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-26-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! There are obvious signs to everyone that the second and third Orbán governments have supported the development of cultural infrastructure in Hungary with the greatest momentum since the change of regime. However, the progress made since 2010-2011 has in recent years been mainly related to the cultural infrastructures based in Budapest, which are operating in Budapest and which are very underdeveloped. We are very pleased that the state that we saw in Hungary in 2010 was mentioned on the same page as Greece and, according to all international measurements, was days away from the state bankruptcy, compared to this, the economic programme that has resulted in Hungary being strong enough to spend and plan a HUF 10 to 100 billion item on its cultural infrastructure in the future. The developments in Budapest have been seen to stem and be realized. The Erkel Theatre in Budapest, which is closed by the Socialist Government and renovated and reopened by the Fidesz Government, serves the public and young people's access to culture. We were delighted that the development started by the Socialist Government and strengthened by our government will also show the Budapest Academy of Music in its new glory to the audience of the world. But here we can mention the possibility that Pesti Vigadó also serves culture in a completely renewed form in Budapest. Let us not go without saying that the Buda spectacle, the Várkert Bazar, which has always been seen in ruins in our lives, functions as a wonderful cultural institution and serves Hungarian culture. These developments, which I have listed, help the cultural infrastructure in Budapest, as well as those that the government has decided over the past few weeks and months; for example, the complete renovation of the Buda Vigadó from five billion HUF state aid and the construction and establishment of the Hungarian State Opera Workshop, the Eiffel Base from 13 billion HUF state aid. This whole series, which I have just listed, is complemented by the development and investment of a private institution, Budapest Music Center, which has also been contributed by the Hungarian State, which mainly helps the cultural institution system and infrastructure in Budapest. However, the programme "Modern Cities" is the opportunity for the leaders and mayors of rural cultural centres to obtain development opportunities on the basis of an agreement with the Prime Minister. We are very pleased that five cultural centers in the countryside have also been decided on cultural developments. The mayor and the Prime Minister's agreement therefore includes a significant theater development in the city of Debrecen, as the government is preparing to renew the Csokonai Theatre. We are pleased that this HUF 6.5 billion program can be launched. The Debrecen are looking forward to the building of the renewable theatre. We are also pleased to announce that Szolnok has also agreed on the renovation of the Szolnok Workshop in the field of fine art, which will be a HUF 1 billion programme of HUF 100 million. In Székesfehérvár, the renovation of the Black Eagle Hotel has long been expected by the locals, whose calculation is not yet seen, but this can also serve cultural purposes. In the framework of the Modern Cities Programme, it is also possible to develop cultural infrastructure here. [[11.50]] In recent weeks we have seen the agreement in Kaposvár, where the complete renovation of the Csiky Gergely Theatre of 9 billion HUF will be on the agenda. And let me last say a few thoughts about the infrastructure development and institution development of my dear city, my constituency. A fantastic cultural infrastructure, the Zsolnay Cultural Quarter and the Kodály Center, as well as the most powerful symphonic orchestra in the countryside, the Pannon Philharmonic Orchestra, are being built in the program, with a presentation by the government to contribute to the operation of this rural cultural centre, Pécs, with significant public resources, by doubling the current 500 and 300 million forints. We are very confident that besides Pécs, the other rural cultural centers can also grow and expand cultural infrastructure within the framework of the Modern Cities programme. Thank you for the government's cooperation with rural county towns. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State L. Simon László wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the speech by my fellow Member Peter Hoppál, my fellow secretary of state, because it is also clear to everyone that Hungary has a government at the moment that does not want to confront the capital, does not want to confront capital investment with the importance of rural investment, but treats the two as a natural balance and complementary thing. It is precisely in this spirit that the very important investments referred to by my fellow Member Hoppal have been and will continue to be made in the future. Allow me to highlight a few more things. Last week, the government decided to further develop the City Park and schedule it. According to last week's government decision, if everything goes well, important cultural facilities will be created in the heart of the capital by 2018 and 2019. All of this will be done - including theater building, museum building, construction of the House of Hungarian Music, reconstruction of the zoo - while the complete reconstruction of the green surfaces will be completed, the City Park will be completed with a running track, and I can add more examples. Of course, the things that my fellow Member has said, both the renovation of the Eiffel Hall and the investments in the Castle, are extremely important. The reconstruction of the Royal Ridge will be completed by 2018 at the Castle. [[It's an intervention from the predecessor of Novak.]] The reconstruction of the former High Guard building. They will enrich the Buda Castle and the capital with new museum spaces. The programme "Modern Cities" highlighted very important elements, my fellow Member. Allow me to add a few things, as heritage protection programmes were also part of the agreements between the government and the cities and between the city leaders and the Prime Minister. If I can only refer to three, one is the reconstruction of the Eger castle, which is one of Hungary's most visited museums. If we look at rural sites, we're talking about his most visited rural museum. Here, the government and the city of Eger have signed a 6 billion HUF grant agreement for the Modern Cities programme. This will, of course, include the national fortress programme, as both EU and national resources will arrive in Eger. But in addition to Eger, we also need to mention Miskolc, where we are already beyond the first two stages of the development of the Castle of Diósgyőr, and within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" this work will continue. You can see the great strength of the renovation of the Diósgyőr castle and the increasing number of tourists visiting it. Although there is not a specific cultural space, I have to mention the rehabilitation of downtown Sopron, since we are talking about one of the most beautiful downtowns in Hungary, which is in a rather poor state. This inner-city rehabilitation will have a serious impact on tourism and partly on culture, but the fact that a beautiful downtown is renewed in itself is such a heritage protection programme, which has also been signed by the Mayor and Prime Minister, which serves the cause of Hungarian culture. And we are very pleased that these investments will be possible. I would like to highlight the theatre in Kaposvár, where, if I remember correctly, you signed an agreement of HUF 9 billion, Prime Minister and Mayor Sita. Indeed, Pécs is a strategic base of Hungarian culture. As a county of Fejér, I, along with my fellow State Secretary Tamás Vargha, consider it very important that the building of the Black Eagle Hotel will be renewed, which has been closed for a very long time, since the change of regime, and this will also serve the cause of Hungarian culture, the culture of Székesfehérvár. Overall, I think that I agree with my fellow Member Hoppál that the programme "Modern Cities" serves not only the economic development, infrastructure development and industrial development of the Hungarian countryside, but also the Hungarian culture. We need to think together, we need to work together. I trust that future talks by Prime Minister will also bring similar results in other cities with county rights not yet visited, which are also important for culture. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. László Varju, independent; Dúró Dóra, Jobbik; Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; György Szilágyi, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Ikotity, István, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zoltán Készés, independent; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, Member. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, I give the floor to Mr Sallai R. Benedek, who asked for an opportunity to speak on a point of order. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to draw your attention to two matters, Mr President-in-Office, without least intention of criticising the session. In the first case, I would like to draw your attention to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech before the agenda, Mr Speaker, who spoke about the rents and the freedom of housing in the capital, while Mr Cseresnyés, State Secretary, in a completely different way from the subject of migration... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2015-10-26-22	Congressman, I do not consider this a point of order... [[Sallai R. Benedek: It was. Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] I do not consider it a point of order, but it is no longer possible to do so. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedek: I would like to ask you to excuse me, let me tell the Speaker that the order of business...]] Thank you very much. Congressman, you have the opportunity to turn to the committee responsible in other forums... [[Sallai R. Benedek: Mr President, you can't take the floor in a point of order unless you have a proper... Rule 53 of the House. §1]] paragraph 1 of the... - Noise, interruptions and applause from Jobbik's ranks. - Dr. Bence Rétvári: Start the speech with a motion. First your motion, then the justification. ) Congressman, after... [[Noise.]] Congressman, I would like to say once again that the President of the Chamber does not consider this to be a point of order. so you can turn to the committee responsible... [[Sallai R. Benedek:...at this moment I have not yet said the order of business, please give me the two minutes provided by the house rules, otherwise you will be violated by the house rules... Noise, interjections on both sides.]] Mr President, once again, I would like to tell you that I do not consider it a point of order, that you would be kind enough to review the relevant parts of the house rules and turn to the committee responsible. Thank you. It's a pleasure to meet you. [[Sallai R. Benedict:...there were times when we said...]] Congressman, it's closed for me. Thank you. [[Sallai R. Benedek: But I haven't closed it yet, Mr. President. Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Fidesz: He's the president!]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] It's 11:59, and now we're going to discuss questions and immediate questions. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett is consulting András Tállai.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the resolution house rule 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr Lajos Oláh K/6551. He rejected his written question to the Minister of National Economy because the motion was not within the minister's remit. [[12.00]] Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. When can the reconstruction of Highway 83 between Győr-Pápa be completed? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary László Tasó, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-10-26-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It's a cycle-by-cycle story, obviously you'll say that we promised it in 2010. But it's been five years since then, and we want something to happen to this trip. We have heard very, very many promises in the past, the last one in August about the construction of an airfield overpass and a connecting road, but we are more interested in what is happening to this main road, as I came up on it last night, I can safely say that it is simply life-threatening. A road that is torn off at every turn, with huge trails, is terrible to go on in the rain, you can't say who has promised what, you can say what happens to him. Unfortunately, I do not see the source of this, and I would also ask the question about what is expected. There was a promise to NATO that there would be a more useful way out of this at the time, obviously even under our government. I'll add, we never promised twice a two-track trip, and now I've heard of it. Obviously, that would be the real thing, but I think the most important thing right now would be to put an end to the current state of absolute accident. At the moment, this would require, in particular, a change of hull, where possible, of course by broadening it. But what I'd like to ask is that we really should take this trip seriously, because it's got a terrible truck traffic on it, and it's practically out of control, so there's nothing to do with it. So, Mr Secretary, I would like to ask you to try to do something about this, if nothing else, by renovating the most dangerous stages, and then there will be a time when this will finally be a normal, useful way, but this question cannot be postponed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-26-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary László Tasó.
u2015-10-26-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, you are right, and I also agree clearly that everyone wants to get home and reach their goal, so eliminating the risk of accidents is the most important task in Hungary in terms of building and maintaining the road network. What is certain and must be recorded: indeed, in the period 2007-13, the transport development programme was adopted by the previous governments, which included the renovation of the road between Pápa and Győr and the renovation of two single lanes. But the revision of this has become necessary, and now it is happening anyway. The public procurement will be published in this regard in the few days. So I can safely say and be happy to announce that the plans will be completed in 2016 and that work can start in the second half of 2016 as it is a recast, but the investment itself has to be completed in 18-19. And what's important, and what might delay the time start from 2016 to the first half of 17 years, is that we really have to reconfigure the plans to two lanes twice, because there will be two lanes between Pápa and Győr. In your question, I believe that Bet settlements... [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yes, there was a detour.]] In addition to the bet, let me inform you that Győrszemere, Gyarmat and Takácsi settlements are also exempt from the problems of transit traffic, which will greatly improve road safety throughout the entire section. So we have good news for the people who live there... [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the road?]] So we're going to build a two-track road twice. This means that the renovation of the road will be completed by 18-19 at the latest. By the way, it is a serious section of the road, with a very serious cost impact; and it is included in our 1696 regulation, so the investment will take place from an IKOP source. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: the Hungarian government is submitting a bill for the EU's excommunication of the pálinka? Can we consider this a confession to a failed freedom fight? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2015-10-26-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In 2010, the Prime Minister himself announced here in the House's walls that the home brewing of brandy would regain its freedom. Viktor Orbán visited the end of the old war of freedom with victory, and the tax exemption of the pálinka potted was also claimed by the government as an act of heroism. Jobbik supported the proposal then, of course, because we also believe that the pálinka is a glorious ancient Hungaricum, which is very closely linked to the life of Hungarians - both its cooking and its consumption. Unfortunately, however, this upward career of pálinka seems to be broken, and the government is guilty of this, since it was already in 2010 that it knew that since, when we joined the European Union, neither the socialist governments nor you asked Brussels for an exemption from the pálinka, we did not have it, and Brussels will not like this step. So it turns out that you and the socialists didn't just steal this country in hand, but they didn't even stand up for it when they could. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] I have a few questions, and I expect substantive answers to that. After last year's tax raise, how many broken wages do you know about? How many have you stopped operating in the last year? Have the effects of the new tax lifting burden been examined? How many more ruined Hungarian families does the government count on? How many more families have been destroyed by having them thrown into loans, and now these plants need to be maintained for five years, right? Who's gonna compensate these families anyway? And who compensates for the thousands of other families who invested in home cooking, bought appliances, invested in courses, professional books, technical equipment? How many poisoning cases do you expect to lead citizens back to the nooks? Has anyone been held accountable for our negotiating position at the time of accession to the European Union? And at all, can we consider the tax laws that have been filed these days as the declared failure of the freedom fight? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, answers the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The pálinkaharc, which the Hungarian government is fighting in the European Union, is indeed being closed, but one or two things need to be identified, which avoids the attention of the right-wing representatives, namely that, even when we joined the European Union in 2004, we knew that there was a Council Directive of 1992 governing the framework for fruit brandy cooking, and in 2010, when the government decided to exempt the brewing of wages and to create the possibility of cooking at home, it knew that it would break this directive. Yet he did, because the interests of the Hungarian people, the interests of Hungarian fruit, the interests of Hungarian fruit brandy wanted this. Even then, we knew that we were going to fight, and we knew that we were going to fight the European Union, and that from 2015 the conditions for cooking at home might be slightly changed, because we have to buy 700 forints of distillate tickets per litre for a minimum of five liters, i.e. 3,500 forints, but the possibility of cooking at home remained, and the tax rate for the cooking at home became 50 percent of the standards required in the EU. Even if there is some correction now, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian pálinka makers, won five years because they could cook the brandy free of charge for five years. The accession of the European Union requires these conditions, and now the European Court of Justice has said it in essence. This is what the new regulation will comply with. Once again, I have told you once before that you are not arguing with the Hungarian Government, but with the European Union, and if you do not accept the European Union's directives, then you should initiate our exit, which you have already done. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedicty and István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-10-26-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, After a long time, something good finally happened in higher education. The previous years were about austerity, insecurity, the idea of extending tuition training, the introduction of clots, the drastic decline in admissions and student numbers, the crisis situation in rural higher education, the intention of abolishing vocational education and institutions, chancellors and consistors. [[12.10]] Similarly, it is a serious problem that a penny increase in higher education has not taken place since 2008; the wages of teachers, assistant professors, professors, university teachers, economic or administrative staff of the institutions have not increased in many years, their salary has lost significantly, and the career of researchers and teachers is becoming less attractive. It will be a big problem if higher education cannot keep the most talented, creative young people, because the competitive sphere will suck them away or go abroad in the first place. Recently, Secretary of State László Palkovics announced that there will be a wage increase, the salary of teachers and assistant professors may increase slightly. He also said that the cost of raising wages should be partly managed by the institutions. Dear Secretary of State, Starting a wage increase is an important step, but you're not gonna leave the other instructors out of it, are you? And they're not gonna make the mistake they made in public education, are they, that only teachers get a raise, and staff directly helping education and education don't get a penny? We don't think that economic and administrative employees can be left out without whom colleges and universities wouldn't work. Another important question is why they want to transfer part of the wage increase to higher education institutions suffering from austerity in recent years. The budget funding of higher education is 50 billion forints per year compared to 2008 status. Why don't you give me the full amount of the wage increase directly from state resources? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-10-26-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to deny about eight untruths in the first sentence, Congressman. On the one hand, about falling higher education resources. You are well aware that every year the amount available for higher education increases by HUF 7-17 billion. The special nature of Hungarian higher education is that, obviously, state aid gives one half and the other half the institutions own income. Of course, I did not expect the State to continue to replace PPP schemes, which thus consolidate enormous debt in universities and colleges, and, in addition, there are EU development resources that are also being used and which have also increased. I didn't count these, but I'd say a simple budget increase. It's an obscene bandage. Honourable Congressman, Does the LMP therefore support the fact that the person who is trained in Hungary with the money of Hungarian taxpayers does not owe anything to the Hungarian taxpayers? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not what we asked.]] Do you think anyone can use this kind of public service, and then you don't owe it to the people here to use the knowledge that you have gained from their money? This is very strange, because you have spoken - calling the institution of student contracts, which have become accepted - as if you did not think so. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Of course, if the LMP does not mean anything if Hungary, patriotism, solving problems at home, then of course you do not have to deal with this, but the political future of the LMP may also be sealed. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Worry about KDNP!]] Dramatic fall. Honourable Member, you know that for years - you have not been able to show a series of numbers. This year, higher education admission rates are about the same as last year's, and last year's rates are higher than the previous year's. Abolition of trades and institutions. You know, honourable Member, that the higher education government has generally reviewed courses that were either unclaimed or covered by other disciplines. And what is the issue of higher education wage increases, the government saw that the chancellor system worked, as the debt of universities and colleges was greatly reduced. This is a noticeable difference in billions, in tens of billions, and we trust it [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that, in the following, we will also be able to raise wages primarily for teachers, assistant professors, but to a lesser extent for other workers, professors and university teachers, but obviously we must keep the university teachers and teachers at the bottom of the ranks. That's what the government's working on. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-34	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. When is the bicycle route to Siófok connected with Ságvár expected to be delivered? It's an address. Mr Mihály Witzmann has the floor.
u2015-10-26-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is a well-known fact that the continuous development of cycling transport is an important goal in Europe and, of course, also in our country. Fortunately, today we are pleased to say that bicycle roads have been renewed and completed in Hungary over the past few years, and there are a number of projects currently under way. Some of these investments will be built with EU support and some of them will be built on their own, but the result is the same in both cases: a modern, safe, comfortable and European transport infrastructure, which is increasingly needed in Hungary. The projects currently under construction include, for example, the bicycle route, which is currently in existence in addition to road 65, which provides connections between Siófok and Ságvár. The development of the bicycle route connecting Siófok with Ságvár has been a significant residential need for many years, so it is safe to say that with the construction that we have recently started, an old dream can come true, and the desired goal is now truly within reach. The exemplary cooperation between Siófok and Ságvár, the two settlements interested in the development, without which the works would have been difficult to start. Just think of the fact that it took several years of preparation to purchase the area covered by the trail of the bicycle route from more than 30 landowners. The Transport Operational Programme of the New Széchenyi Plan allows the project to be implemented with an aid intensity of about 100 per cent, of approximately 260 million forints. As a Member of Parliament in the region, it was, of course, a great pleasure for me to announce a few weeks ago the acquisition of the application and the signing of the grant contract, but I think it will be an even greater pleasure for all of us, when I hope that people can actually take possession of this new development, this new infrastructure, as soon as possible. That is why I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when the transfer of the bicycle route connecting Siófok with Ságvár is expected. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2015-10-26-36	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2015-10-26-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Cycling is one of the most popular, economical and environmentally friendly modes of motorised transport, along with a healthy version and alternative, a very important opportunity to achieve our goals. This is why it was important to re-open the Transport Operational Programme launched in 2014 in May 2015, this year, and to use it to re-establish cycling routes outside the territory in addition to some, two and three-digit, i.e. first- and second-class routes. As a result, we received some 68 applications for support, 64 of which were successfully presented by the applicants, including two project proposals from the two municipalities mentioned by you and located in your constituency, Siófok and Ságvár; both have been considered and both have been considered to be supportive. As a result, the work area was transferred in mid-October, the work started, and I am pleased to report that by mid-December this truly important bicycle connection will be handed over, along route 65, these two stages of HUF 260 million will be completed. Apart from them, thank God, many other settlements in Hungary will be happy to be able to make similar investments at the beginning or mid-December or end of November, or just in the days, thus increasing the length of the bicycle routes, and as we have repeatedly said about it, we strive to connect as many of these bicycle routes as possible to a network. What is still very important: the maintenance and operation of cycling routes is also important, and there has not been a uniform system of handling cycling routes in Hungary. We will also focus on this next year, as it is very important to maintain their state and status, as it costs much less than to carry out a major renovation afterwards. I hope that we will be richer with a lot of bicycle routes, so that many people will be able to travel healthier and safer in Hungary. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-38	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-10-26-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a strategic service company. I have already asked the Minister, Mr Secretary of State, a written question in May 2015, but unfortunately I must say that the issues I have formulated there are still relevant. I asked the Secretary of State about the employment and wage positions of 20,000 people recently, two weeks ago, three weeks ago; simply because we have to face deteriorating positions. In the case of utility companies, the utility tax also weighs on them as a burden that can bring companies into the category of insolvency, and this obviously affects the people who work there. I would like to know practically, and if possible, I would like to have exact, clear answers as to what is the situation within the framework of the reorganisation programme, how the relationship with wages, the rise in wages, can be discussed at all. [[12.20]] I would like to ask whether the situation has stabilised with regard to the preservation of employment positions, which also carried the risk of a strike at the time. I have two very simple questions. One of them is when they intend to pay the extra wage benefits, which concern the year 2015. In the case of a physical worker, this may also represent a rate of 10-15 per cent of his salary, so this is significant for him and therefore of sufficient importance. The second is whether they want to think further in any way about the utility tax, say, in terms of proportionality, in terms of the specific burden, or whether they are thinking about it - or if they are not - it would be good to think about whether water is a basic food, a basic food, and because of that, say, a 5% VAT charge. I would like clear, exact answers to these questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-26-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-10-26-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, As has been the case, the government will continue to consider the interests of workers important and to prioritise them, especially if they work in a strategically fundamental place such as water supply in Hungary. The Ministry of National Development, in cooperation with the Hungarian National Asset Manager, prepares a reorganisation plan with five majority state-owned water utility companies subject to ownership rights, given the particular importance of the former. The practical basis of the reorganisation plan, as the Member knows, is that the integration of more than 400 water utility companies created after the change of regime has taken place, now there are 40 or a few water utility companies, and they work together with the five former state waterworks, and most of them are state-owned. The aim of the plan is to create conditions for predictable, efficient operation for workers in the long term, while at the same time ensuring the financing of the public service, given the burden-bearing capacity of the population and the economy, in the long term. During the preparation of the reorganization plan under preparation, the Ministry of Development and the MNV, in cooperation with all stakeholders, shall endeavour to determine the cornerstones of the plan, taking maximum account of and maintaining the professional standards that have been in place so far, in cooperation with the Association of Water Services Workers. All the questions that you have raised, I can say that we imagine it primarily on the basis of an agreement based on the involvement of employees' interests organisations and with them on a professional basis, and we hope that this will only affect the numbers as well as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-42	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. The Hungarian government is more embarrassing to open Jobbik's office than to close schools in the Highlands? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2015-10-26-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, I opened an office for representatives at the Danube Wednesday in the Highlands. Slovak politicians are already working on how to close this by law, even though since the introduction of dual citizenship, Hungarian politicians have been represented by a Hungarian representation, the representation of foreign Hungarians is not only their symbolic responsibility, but also their legal duty in our view. On the one hand, we want to ensure that Hungarians in the Highlands can find us with their affairs, problems, problems, and, on the other hand, we also need to know that a lot of Hungarians from there go to Győr, Budapest or other cities to study and work - of course our doors are open to them. This whole situation has prompted the frustrated Slovak policy to call this office opening a provocation, which may not surprise me, but is far more incomprehensible to me, and we stand in the presence of the Hungarian State Department and personally before the Minister of Foreign Affairs's statement, who, in recent months, has spoken out to everyone who has criticized Hungary, but instead of listening at least cowardly, he has joined the hysterical ranks, and he himself has spoken of provocation. Mr Secretary of State, please tell me what provocation you see in the opening of an office in a country that is supposed to be our strategic partner and where half a million Hungarians live, under the law of a Hungarian Member. And please don't say that the Hungarian party or their representatives who wanted to comply with Bratislava on the one hand, and the Hungarian party that you have been pulling over the wire, on the other hand, have said the same thing. Nationality law, language law, flag law, beating of DAC fans, Malina Hedvig, bilingualism by rail - you have renounced the representation of all Hungarian affairs over the past five years and sacrificed them on the altar of good neighbourly relations. Do you still care about the schnapps with Fico, Mr. Secretary? Why not declare the closure of Hungarian schools in the Highlands a provocation, and why not protest against it? Is everything possible with the Hungarians in the Highlands, Mr. Secretary of State? Why is opening offices more embarrassing than closing schools in Hungary? It's not Jobbik's presence in the Highlands, it's your presence in the Highlands. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is the compromise of self-destruction that can give encouragement to Slovak extremists. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Szabó will answer the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The opening of Jobbik's office was not accepted by the political representatives of the Hungarians in the Highlands, and the Hungarian political force, which is in the Highlands, was completely separated from it. For the Hungarian Government, of course, these are the opinion makers, and this gives the proper direction. The opening of the representative office clearly causes damage to Hungarian-Slovak bilateral relations and is also harmful to Hungarians in the Highlands. It is bad for cooperation in Visegrád, and we do feel that this is an unnecessary provocation; it is good to create tension between the two countries. Indeed, there are some problematic things that we need to solve. I suggest, Congressman, that if you already have an office there, you should check with the Hungarians there, because apparently their opinion is not what you have. In the migration crisis, Slovakia has had maximum solidarity, supported our country, and the relationship between the two countries has been so sincere and constructive for a long time. We feel that both sides have recently confirmed this at prime minister level and at foreign minister level. I trust that if you are already in your office, you will be able to coordinate with the Hungarians in the Highlands and the Hungarian political forces in the Highlands, and you will accept this position. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[István Szávay: For the record, we note that a roaring applause...]] Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Who costs the state firewood? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Ministry of the Interior, I would like to ask you in this direction if there is any way to help the smallest settlements. As is well known to you, the Ministry of the Interior, with a very good decision, has started to help local authorities purchase firewood in the most disadvantaged areas, so that the most disadvantaged residents can obtain this with the greatest possible discount. The problem is that at the moment the support of the wood Ministry of Interior is 15 thousand HUF/forest cubic metres, while the market price in most cases, in a significant part of the country, is 21 thousand HUF/forest cubic metres, for which municipalities can obtain it; this is the cost of cutting and transportation. The municipalities for which this most disadvantaged rating is found are usually in this situation because they do not have a local business tax, do not have their own income, and therefore the need for resources that should be added, which is a difference, cannot be added to it. Therefore, this aid of HUF 15,000 puts the municipalities in an even worse position, since they either do not use the possibility of this aid for the benefit of local residents, or they are indebted to themselves, as they have no other option than to supplement the deficit between the amount of aid provided for in the BM Regulation and the real market price. My question is whether the Ministry of Interior sees the possibility that - by assessing how the value of the firewood is currently changing in the Hungarian market - what realistic purchases are, how the state economies can play a role in this matter, will override this Ministry of Interior decree, because obviously there would be two solutions. One of the solutions is to oblige public forestry to sell firewood to these municipalities only at the price provided for in the regulation, or the other option is to reimburse the real market price to disadvantaged small settlements and to help those living there. That's what I'd expect with all due respect for your answer to see if they see a chance. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[12.30]]
u2015-10-26-48	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The social firewood programme was launched in 2011 at the initiative of the Ministry of Interior, first with a budget of approximately HUF 1 billion, and then in the last two years, we provide two or three billion forints for local authorities to purchase firewood from this source and for those in need, according to their decree. The programme is clearly very popular, since 2180 municipalities have already submitted their applications this year, and the experience of the past years is that the municipalities are decisively taking the obstacle without error, the accounts arrive in order and are able to account for the amount made available to them. There was no problem, a question from the municipalities that would have suggested that, as you said, the aid put them in a worse position. It is difficult to imagine a situation where when a municipality receives support, it puts it in a worse position. By the way, every year, when we draw up the call for proposals, we consult with the state forestry industry and, on the basis of the opinion agreed with the state forestry industry, the value of the one cubic meter of wood that serves the basis of the aid was determined at HUF 15 thousand net. This has a method of calculating how and to what extent we can apply and provide resources to municipalities. It is important that in the case of disadvantaged municipalities, it is not necessary to guarantee the majority, and it is also important that these disadvantaged municipalities receive gross subsidies, so the net value of the 15,000 HUF firewood will be gross, so together with VAT, they will receive 19 thousand a hundred forints to buy the firewood. Since 2011, it has been known to everyone that the costs of transport and processing have to be borne by the municipality. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Horváth, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "GMOs in Hungary and in the EU - which way further? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-10-26-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, . GMOs in Hungary and in the EU - where to go next? This was the title of the recent conference discussion on the possibilities of creating a GMO-free Hungary and the results achieved so far. The results, thank God, have a lot to talk about. We all remember spring events. Following a tough negotiation process of more than four years, an amendment to EU legislation has been adopted to enable Member States to decide whether or not they wish to grow GMOs in their territory. Our country has first transposed the possibility of a ban into its domestic legal order, and has immediately taken the necessary steps to implement it. The Ministry of Agriculture has sent to the European Commission the notifications requesting that Hungary should not be subject to cultivation authorisations for GMOs which are or have already been authorised. With all due respect, Mr. Secretary of State, how will the proceedings proceed? Does it always ensure that GMO crops already authorised in other Member States of the Union cannot be grown in our country? Which Member States have taken the necessary legal steps to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in their territory? What about the neighbouring countries? Can the GMO-free status of the Carpathian Basin be ensured in the field of crop production? What are the perspectives of the ban introduced in our country? What steps will the government take to create a complete GMO-free regime for each product course - milk, meat and eggs? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, It is indeed a great pleasure for us that, after many years of negotiations, we have reached another milestone in preserving the GMO-free nature of Hungarian agriculture. In March this year, an amendment to the Directive made it possible for Member States to decide whether or not they want to grow GMOs in their territory. We have worked for the agreement for years, and the consistent and committed work of the Hungarian government has contributed greatly to achieving it. I must say that it is a complete Hungarian success, because Hungary was the flag bearer of these negotiations. The new directive is the first of the EU Member States to be transposed into domestic law. On 21 September 2015, on the basis of the possibility provided for by the Directive, we submitted to the European Commission our claim that the geographical scope of the cultivation licence for genetically modified plants should not extend to the territory of Hungary. The Commission forwarded this to the companies concerned. The 30-day response period of the applicant companies will expire in the days, if no response is received from any of the companies during that time, it means that they have agreed not to grow such a plant here. If further applications for cultivation licences for genetically modified plants are submitted in the European Union in the future, our country will always take the initiative not to extend the territorial scope of these authorisations to our country. With regard to neighbouring countries, Croatia, Slovenia and Austria have made use of the new legislation; while Serbia is not a member of the Union, it also pursues a similar GMO policy as Hungary. Among our neighbours, GMOs are grown in Ukraine, Romania and Slovakia. Due to our common border areas, effective cooperation between the competent authorities in these countries is crucial, as this is the only way to ensure that the crops of Hungarian farmers close to the border are not contaminated with GMOs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-54	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. When will the situation be resolved in the area of chimney sweep? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2015-10-26-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, With the intention of crushing the chimney sweep, the government wanted to amend certain laws on chimney sweeping activities. Although Fidesz backed away from concrete legislative destruction in the spring, fortunately, but the increasing number of carbon monoxide leaks and the increasing chimney fires, the extremely bad condition of the chimneys indicates that already, thanks to your government, there are extremely bad conditions in this area. What they touch from the public services is ruined, what they want to einstantise, it's impossible. In 2013, the number of carbon monoxide leakages in Budapest was 98, in 2014, 129, and this year in the first five months, from January to May 54, and we are just ahead of the heating season. The situation seems to be getting worse. At a committee meeting, their own Deputy State Secretary said that the government was looking for the best solution. It's autumn, it's the beginning of the heating season, the government hasn't done anything yet. Or perhaps it would be better if you didn't do it, but to leave the firemen and chimney sweeps who have done their job so that they can continue to do their job. That's why I'm asking: what do the residents expect? Are they ruining everything that affects people's everyday lives and their lives? The water supply, the waste transfer and even the chimney sweep? What if you let the service providers, the profession and the local government companies continue to work and listen to their voices, their criticism of the law, and let them work, not just want to einstand? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-26-56	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In many respects, the suggestion of the Member is fundamentally critical of government legislation on public utility services and services provided by public utility providers. If I understand correctly, Congresswoman does not agree with the intention of the Hungarian Government to make utility services affordable to the Hungarian population. Obviously, you can't agree with this, because during your governance, you have constantly sought to keep the prices of utility services as high as possible, and the foreign companies that profit here will take this profit out of the country. The government is working on helping the public with public utility services, reducing the daily costs of households. For the moment now, I can safely say that it is a success. [[12.40]] In the area of chimney sweeping, we also intend to keep the costs of chimney sweep at a level acceptable to the general public, which is what the freezing of prices meant, and we are looking for a way to ensure that this activity is free of charge to the general public. The law is currently before Parliament, and the reform or revision of the law is obviously also an opportunity for Members of Parliament. However, all I have to add to the specific figures is that the number of chimney fires has decreased steadily in recent years, while in 2012 there were 958 chimney fires, until 2015 there have been 677 chimney fires. What the Congresswoman is talking about is the carbon monoxide leak, but this is not due to the state of the chimneys, but is essentially due to the lack of fresh air supply of combustion equipment. This can lead back to a lot of things, like very well-insulated windows. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And equipment, so it's not the law's fault. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why have they not done anything since their entry into government in order to finally be born with the title of the Youth Act of strategic importance for young people. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2015-10-26-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Since the establishment of Jobbik, he has remained in the position that there is an urgent need for a Youth Act. So far, no progress has been made on your part in this case, even though it has been governed for five years. The Youth Act is needed for several reasons. The most important thing is to declare the status of young people and their potential in legislation, but of course it is a guarantee that, for example, the interests of young people will be taken into account in each proposal discussed by Parliament. This would be a huge step forward from the current situation, with no such obligations. The issue of the creation of the Youth Act has been kept on the agenda by all governments at the level of communication. Several times it took a specific form, but the Parliament did not accept it at all. In this context, it is worth looking at how Fidesz's opinion has changed depending on whether they were in opposition or in government. During the Gyurcsány government, after the first failed legislation, the national youth strategy was completed. At the time, Fidesz considered the idea to be an additional act in opposition position, instead of creating it, it demanded the legislation that had been missing for a long time. Bence Rétvári, their representative at the time, said: "The youth law is clearly lacking. In 2010 Mr János Halász tried to explain the certificate that the law was planned, and in 2011 the Secretary of State gave me an evasive response to my question. Since then, we have been asking the question on several occasions, but on your part, there has been a continuous misconception, although the youth civil sector has been waiting for, asking and demanding the law for years, including with a view to giving greater weight to youth in public awareness and to the creation of laws, but unfortunately, so far they have been doing this in vain, and the government's youth policy is characterised by unpredictableness and lack of budgetary resources. Dear Secretary of State, I ask why they have not done anything to finally bring about a youth law of strategic importance for young people. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák will answer the question. I give you the floor.
u2015-10-26-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for this great historical overview of who said what, and then for your answer, and I would like to respond to this, which is that there are no significant events in youth policy and that resources are inadequate in youth. I consider that a very serious and unfounded accusation, Congressman. [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] And I think that washing these two things together is completely pointless. I do not believe that young people are demanding the Youth Act on us, that young people want to have a future in Hungary, that they have a livelihood, that they have a job in Hungary. That is why we have worked in the last five years, and that is why we will work in the years to come. I would like to update your memory of the steps we have taken to this end, as well as the job protection action, in which we have offered the opportunity for 150,000 young beginners. And here I would say - he says that there is a shortage of funds or a lack of budgetary resources in youth policy - the Youth Guarantee provides HUF 200 billion to give young people a job to have a future in Hungary. I think that is what concerns them most, that they can have a family, that they can start a family, and that they can have a viable future in Hungary. You must know the figures, according to which in 2012 youth unemployment in Hungary was 28.2 percent, by now, by 2015 it was reduced to 17.7 percent. I believe that these are the substantive, substantive issues that we are talking about. We have created and run conciliation forums in this very government cycle, which also provide opportunities for youth organisations to listen to their voices, to convey their suggestions to us. We only provide 12.5 billion forints of the European Union funds of our State Secretaryship this year for publications aimed only at youth, so I think that in every measure of the government - and here I have not even listed the measures in other sectors - we are also doing so that young people too [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They should feel that in their government decisions, we are looking at their perspectives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-62	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why would they want to destroy a well-functioning system? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-10-26-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, We have read the presentation on the government's website about changes to the day care system for children. They need to know what the May Other in Politics has been fighting for years to make up for the state support of family daycare and crèches, or to give every maintainer the normative. We do remember that it was Fidesz who took this in 2012, because you changed the rules so that only family daycare centers with local government and EU applications were eligible for state aid, I think it was a big mistake. On the one hand, I ask what the amount of this aid will be, whether there will be a difference between the standard of nursery and alternative institutions, and whether or not they will increase the normative of nursery schools that have been frozen for years. However, there is another amendment in this package, with which we are far from agreeing, we find it very harmful, and I have to make a very strong criticism of this, and I would like the Government to change its position. Family daycare centers currently provide care for children under the age of 14. According to the KSH data, 38 percent of children enrolled in the family daycare center are over 3 years of age, representing exactly 2685 children. You would now withdraw your support and condemn those family daycare centers who adopt preschool children or those who are in school. This is completely unreasonable because they are talking about granting freedom of choice to children under the age of 3 and parents who are raising them, but the same will be withdrawn from children aged 3 in the same draft. I might put it this way that even if everything there was completely given to kindergarten education, parents would not be allowed to choose not overcrowded kindergartens. I respectfully ask, Madam Secretary, why more children are being sent to overcrowded kindergartens and why parents need to be persuaded to still have their children in sheltered kindergartens in many places, if there is a better solution. Why do they want to withdraw this opportunity from Hungarian children and Hungarian parents? Thank you for your reply.
u2015-10-26-64	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2015-10-26-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I am pleased that you are monitoring the legislative process, and you also know that the proposal that the government has not even discussed is in the process of social consultation, so any concrete decision to make at this time would be relatively early, I believe. Today we are receiving 25 civil society organisations, which are part of the social consultation, and we are talking to them about this issue, because the proposal is being debated or discussed in society. But what is it really about? It is about giving mothers the opportunity to stay at home with their children until they are 3 years old or to work with a child under 3 years old. They naturally need intraday care and intraday supervision. From September 1st this year, we introduced a compulsory preschool from 3 years of age, so children will be present in the kindergarten care system from 3 years of age. In kindergarten care, under 3 years of age, we will introduce a multi-player, flexible system that is much richer than ever and offers much more solutions, which responds to parental needs. There is no question of reducing or even reducing the support of family daycare workers. We are setting up a multi-stage model that offers solutions everywhere in the given settlements so that children under the age of 3 can be accommodated by parents. I would also remind you that you were talking about making families impossible. As I recall, the funding increased in 2010 just as it was reduced in 2009, and then we increased it in 2010, and we put in place a number of measures that improved the funding situation of crèches by 25-30 percent, and this will also improve this year. [[12.50]] So, overall, I would ask you to vote alongside sobriety in this case too, not to intimidate anyone with decisions that have not been made, and to believe and accept that we are also looking at the aspects of young children and parents who are raising young children in this case. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-66	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister: "Will there be a memorial for 56 in the national square? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr.Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, acting on behalf of the Minister of the Cabinet Office of Prime Minister Antal Rogán, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will answer the question. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-26-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In 1996 a public monument was built in Kossuth Square, the flame of the Revolution, which, even in accordance with Annex 2, point 2 of the National Property Act, is one of the assets held in national assets of national importance. However, since the Fidesz government renovated Kossuth Square, the statue has disappeared. We know that the monument in Városliget, which the common language calls only iron brush, does not represent a worthy memory of the revolution and the struggle for freedom of 1956, and some even say it is a mockery of it. At the same time, it is out of the question that the obligation to comply with and enforce the laws applies to everyone, to Hungarian citizens as well as to members of the government or to the Office of Parliament, to the trustee of the space. That's why the removal of the statue is inexplicable and inexplicable. Next year, we celebrate the 60-year anniversary of our revolution, and one of the important and essential elements of the preparations from this year's commemorations could be the restoration of the flame of the Revolution monument, or, if it were not possible for some incomprehensible reason, the preparation and placement of another impressive memento. It is shameful that there is no worthy guardian of the glorious memory of our revolution in the square of the nation. There is only a temporary exhibition in a former utility tunnel, which forced the revolution to the ground as well as during the period of communist retribution. I ask you: when will the flame of the revolution in Kossuth Square rekindle, will there be a worthy memorial of 56 in the national square? I'd like to hear a worthy answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-68	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-69	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let me begin by saying that the matter you're dealing with does not fall under government authority. The reason for this is that the Office of Parliament is the trustee of the Flame of Revolution. That is why the House Committee is in fact responsible. However, since it is 1956, allow me to inform you of the following. As far as we know, the fate of the flame of the Revolution memorial is in progress. The Parliamentary Office will inform the public about this. In addition, it is an important fact that as part of the renovation of Kossuth tér, last year the memorial site of the victims of the volley fire on 25 October was handed over. 90,000 people have seen this before. In addition, the water mirror in Kossuth Square is also a memorial site of 56. This is also demonstrated by the quote there, which also commemorates the victims of a series of fires. So I would definitely like to reject the claim that.56 would not have a worthy memorial place in the national square. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Next year we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the war of freedom. I would like to inform you that the government has set up a memorial committee, which brings together the preparations. This Memorial Committee will propose major commemorations, events and, among other things, educational programmes and publishing educational material. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and After Béla Kovács' espionage scandal, many people may have wondered what Jobbik really thinks about national independence and freedom. We would like to believe that, despite so many disturbing circumstances, at least we think the same thing about 1956, which is why we are counting on their support in order to remember the boys of Pest and the heroes of 1956 in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Can the collapse of wasted public services be prevented? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The fact that many public service providers have been in a very difficult financial situation in recent years is certainly also known to the Ministry of Agriculture. The information that gets to us was also partially published in the press, and from these you can see, for example, that the Green Bridge Region Nonprofit Kft., which provides 300 thousand people and provides work for 265 people, has become completely impossible for the father and mother of more than 200 underage children. But it's not about a single thing. Bihari Waste Management Nonprofit Kft. last year ended with a loss of nearly HUF 100 million, and this year you can expect a deficit of between 150 million and 160 million. Hajdúsági Waste Management Nonprofit Kft. After a huge loss of 300 million in 2013, it accumulated a loss of 117 million, and this year's result will be similar, while the government had them pay HUF 160 million for the supervisory fee. But the same is true of Debrecen Waste Nonprofit Ltd. the company's losses of 42 million in 2014 and the company will remain loss-making with a very serious municipal aid this year. Everywhere we look in the country, we see a lot of them. At the company managing the landfill of the Russian girl and her region, the loss is HUF 200 million, and all of this is the result of the reduction in the cost of these service providers in this financial situation, and it can be seen that they have to finance it with public money, the taxpayers pay the cost of everything. My respectful question, Mr Secretary of State, is whether there is any strategy, either for the wallet or for the government, to finance the losses of these public services. And I am obviously wondering, after your ministry likes to emphasise in the case of the European Union's environmental programme the polluter pays the principle that, if these fees are not paid, how will this be achieved, since all Hungarian taxpayers must reimburse the losses of these companies. What's the strategic plan for the wallet? - I'd like to ask you with respect. Thank you.
u2015-10-26-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, In accordance with the Government's vision, public service providers must serve the public interest. The government has set itself the aim of enforcing the interests of the population, thereby reducing the costs, accompanied by increased official control by the background institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture. You know, it's very interesting that you're concerned about the operation of companies, and we're more concerned about keeping more money in people's pockets. It is much less interesting whether a company is operating successfully, which has to carry out a public service or to keep as much money in people's pockets as possible. I think that's the second argument, second reason is much stronger. The reduction of rent is a key component of the Hungarian economic model, which significantly reduced the burden on families. It is certainly well known to you that the Waste Act provides for the setting of charges according to national uniform rules for public service charges for the general public. The basic conditions for charging will be laid down by a ministerial decree in order to eliminate the abuse of the population. Our aim is to have a stronger public control over the tariff. Uniform tariffs and stronger public engagement are needed to ensure that the Hungarian population is not exposed to the interests of the competition sector. In my opinion, the polluter pays principle is fully applied in the domestic waste management public service. Producers of waste shall pay in the public service charge for the treatment of the waste they produce. This is done by meeting the objectives of the reduction of the costs. Public service companies are indeed facing a number of challenges today, but contrary to decades of practice, it is in the interest of the public to maximise the profits of public service providers. At present, a transitional period is taking place in the public service, a long-term construction is under way, one of the significant results of which is that this activity is now carried out exclusively by non-profit companies with domestic majority ownership and that investments are made for sustainable development with a high technical content. I think that's the real answer to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-74	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:.. How much rotten meat can we eat? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed. [[13.00]]
u2015-10-26-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In expired foods, including meat-based foods, there is a constant struggle between authorities and traders. Unfortunately, in many cases traders label or wash over expired meats for profit, such as vinegar. There's a lot of news about the different practices on the part of the people working in the multinationals. Due to the low level of punishment, the large store producing billions of dollars in revenue is not intimidated, and according to some information, they are also informed of the date of the checks in time. Dear Secretary of State, What safeguards are included in the control system, and what evidence is available to refute these claims? As we have heard from a number of news reports, not only the meat products produced in Hungary are skilled by traders, but also those from abroad, among which there are many unidentifiable goods. The National Food Chain Safety Agency and other authorities have hit such shipments several times. What method is used to detect these and to check their effectiveness? Does the Secretary of State have information on how much illegal meat can be placed on the market every year, and what is the proportion of the total annual sales of meat? And it is also very important to know, Mr Secretary of State, how much bad food these mostly multinational companies feed to Hungarians without their knowledge. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2015-10-26-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The primary task of the food chain monitoring authority is to detect and eliminate intentional abuse that harms consumers and endangers their health. For meat products which have expired or become unfit for consumption, consumer notifications to Nebih's green and customer service will always be investigated, and notifications will be directly investigated by the regionally competent food chain monitoring authority or, where appropriate, by the Nébih's Directorate for Priority Affairs. A total of 66 525 facility inspections were carried out in 2014, of which 20 857 were specifically targeted at food distribution, of which 1911 were found to be non-compliant. The level of penalties applied to irregularities detected, the amount of the fine which may be imposed, is in the precise regulation of the relevant government regulation, as is the case with the organisation of official controls. No more than the fact that the detection efficiency of the audits of the Nébih High Affairs Directorate is close to 90 per cent, the claim to leak the date of the checks does not contradict it more than the fact that the audit effectiveness of the Nébih High Affairs Directorate is close to 90 per cent. The total amount of the fine imposed by the KÜI exceeded HUF 392 million in 2014, and in addition to the fine, it is also a very important sanction, such as the suspension of activities, the seizure or destruction of goods. Indeed, cooperation with the co-governments in the control of food from abroad, as well as the pre-notification obligation on imports of food risky food in 2010, as well as the functioning EKAER system, are of great help in controlling food from abroad. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-78	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue our work with the next question. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, "Why doesn't the state compensate all HCV patients who are ill because of unfiltered blood products?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-79	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Before 1992, blood products were not filtered into hepatitis C virus, so many who had received the disease before that date or were infected with the virus by surgery because of the blood transfusion, as there are many cases of long incubation with this disease, in many cases in the late 1990s, in the 2000s, because it caused a specific disease and specific symptoms of the virus. The claims for compensation against the State were tried by the current government. In many cases, a lawsuit had to be brought in order for the state to pay. In the meantime, there was a government decision that made compensation mandatory for people with congenital bleeding disorders, but only a part of the patients were obviously affected. In their reply to our written question, they acknowledged the existence of this problem and the practice that distinguishes between infected patients. The Minister also acknowledged that a significant number of cases of HCV infection were previously rejected by the courts because they were submitted late. To the knowledge of the Ministry, there are many people who are ill without their own fault who have lost their compensation because of the strict judicial practice of their time and due to a distinctive legal background. Their answer to our question also showed that patients were not compensated for out of court, even out of fairness. The LMP is fighting for equality of rights in all areas, so we would also like to ensure that all beneficiaries receive the compensation they deserve. My question is whether you intend to put an end to this unfair situation. Are they also an opportunity to resolve the situation of patients who have been unfairly left unindemnified? Are they planning to be confirmed infected by unfiltered blood products, whether they are haemophiliacs or not, under the same conditions and without legal proceedings? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-10-26-80	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2015-10-26-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we are faced with a problem that occurred before 1992, so it is quite old, but from a humane point of view, we obviously have to deal with people suffering from such an infection. By the way, there are a lot of people in the world who have been infected with hepatitis C. Three to four million infections occur each year. Hungary is one of the luckier countries here, although it is obviously the lowest in Scandinavia and the highest in Egypt, it is 15-20 percent; Hungary is less than 1 percent. And since it's spread by blood, people aren't usually exposed to it. Obviously, those who use intravenous drugs or put in piercings or tattoos are at a much higher risk. It was a big advance this year that a new vaccine could be used, the interferon-free antiviral agent and the preparation were included in the funding of OEP, so the treatments became much more accessible to everyone. As you said, the procedure usually takes place in court, like all damages proceedings. Obviously, the damage, the damage and the causal link between the two must be demonstrated by those who wish to resolve this situation individually. At the same time, on 24 November 2000, a government decision was taken on the uniform compensation of congenital bleeding citizens infected with HCV virus from stable blood products, and this is precisely what the judicial procedure is intended to shorten. More precisely, certain elements of evidence are taken away from the shoulders of those seeking compensation, thereby making it much easier for them to obtain compensation under a fair procedure. The actions can be said to oblige the Hungarian State to pay in the vast majority, but in general to a lesser extent than what is demanded by the claimants, and the limitation period is interpreted very broadly by the court, so in most cases the proceedings are conducted. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-82	Thank you very much. Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development a question:. Stealth Volan Privatization? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2015-10-26-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A very important question of tens of billions of HUF is whether the tender for the purchase of vehicles will finally be issued to Volán companies, and if this happens, these buses will be Hungarian buses. The other question, which is at least this size, is whether the privatisation of the Community transport service is planned, which, of course, will have a related consequence that private operators are likely to buy from abroad. According to Jobbik, it is very important to uncover in good time the potential privatisations in the background, as this area is perfectly suitable for the gigantic draining of public funds, and Jobbik is determined to build a barrier to these public money streams. What's this about? On 5 October 2015, the following news was published on the news portal Hungarianidek.hu, close to the government: in the absence of official declarations, we can now only report it on the basis of industrial sources, the big bus exchange programme is cancelled. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.10]] We understand that the competent managers of MNV, with the help of a large fleet manager, are imagining the liberalisation of long-distance road transport. However, this is perfectly contrary to the previous position of MNV Zrt. regarding the preparation of Volán companies for the opening of the market. I ask Minister, Mr Secretary of State, what is the truth: will the promised vehicle purchase programme in 2016 be carried out to the minimum necessary to ensure the competitiveness of Volan companies? If so, when and from what source do you intend to do this? Or can we say that the Hungarian government, like the privatisation of the capital city, called a euphemistically new bus operation programme, will give up community-owned bus services in rural bus transport and squander another element of Hungarian national wealth, the community-owned bus and coach assets? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-84	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is true, as you said in your question, that before domestic bus transport there are several major milestones, one is the opening up of the market of 17 and the other is the opening of the tender of 16 and the third is the public service, the means by which the Hungarian road transport companies, which account for 70% of the public passenger transport service, carry this out. It is well known that, as a result of the omissions of previous decades, the Hungarian bus park is outdated, and although the change in recent years has taken place in both the Volán and the capital company, you are absolutely right that we have very current tasks here. However, these decisions can only be implemented with due care, partly because they are very significant amounts, partly because they determine the transport of the next 6-8-10 years. The preparation of the decision is ongoing, so the answer to your question is clear yes; the necessary decisions will be taken by both the wallet and the MNV. At the same time, it is also clear that service companies must act in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, free of any discrimination when applying for tenders. It is important that all the important aspects are taken into account in this, including what has been said both in your question and in what I said before, but we also need to apply a value-for-money ratio. It should also be ensured that the means to be acquired can satisfy the travelling public at a significantly higher level than at present. We will make the decisions in due course. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: When will the government resolve the problems of water utility providers? It's an address. You have the floor. Here.
u2015-10-26-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the relevant trade unions have envisaged a strike in the event that the Ministry's draft of 10 per cent wage cuts and redundancies are implemented in state-owned water utility companies. According to one statement, this was just a misunderstanding, but we must not devalue the problem. It is a fact that the service providers are in a lot of trouble, and this is partly caused by the government. One trade union leader said that these companies were profitable until they were burdened with the reduction of the rent and other taxes. On the other hand, Jobbik's position is that we supported and will continue to support the reduction of the rent, but clearly it was not covered by the government's promise, it was an extra profit for companies, as we continue to hear about company-level waste, expensive external workers, subcontractors, private car use and executive bonuses from workers listening to their names in the case of the Transdanubian Regional Waterworks. At the beginning of October, the portfolio promised that within a month state-owned regional water utility providers, including the DRV based in Siófok, would be screened. However, the investigation cannot stop here, it is also necessary to identify the disadvantages that the government's measures have caused to the sector, as this could otherwise be a potential source of further reductions in overhead costs. Dear Secretary of State, Has the promised screening begun, and what concrete steps is the government planning to take to solve the sector's problems, so that the working Hungarian people can keep their jobs and the public can continue to get cheap or even cheaper access to drinking water and sanitation? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-88	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here.
u2015-10-26-89	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The large-scale reduction of the burden on families for all affected some 3.8 million families, and this 3.8 million households could save some HUF 650 billion by the end of this year compared to 2012 prices. The Hungarian State is committed to the long-term operation of the majority state-owned regional water utility companies for public service purposes, as these companies play an essential role not only in the performance of sectoral tasks, but also in the achievement of the policy objectives set by the government, in order to ensure security of supply. Indeed, as you say, a full overview of the sector from a wealth policy point of view and an examination of the operation of the companies concerned were deemed necessary and, in any case, taken together. This study gives us the opportunity to work together on a long-term strategy. They form part of a plan of measures, which the Hungarian National Asset Manager coordinates with the involvement of the Association of Water Services Workers and MaVíz, the Hungarian Water Facility Association. Anyway, we're working together right now, so we're doing the due diligence. The cornerstones have already been established by broad professional consensus, and the partial development of the measures is currently under way. I believe that the document could be born this year. Our aim is to create the conditions for predictable and effective future operations for all concerned. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the agenda. Mr Sallai R. Benedek has already wished to speak in order of business. You can do it now. You have one minute. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, before I start speaking on a point of order, I would like to ask you to be informed whether I understand the Parliament Act correctly, of which 49. In the case of Article 4 (1) (1) of the EC Treaty, it is only on a case-by-case basis to be criticised. Is it okay to criticize it in relation to the order of business, or should it not be?
u2015-10-26-92	No. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-93	It's okay. Thank you, I'll make an excuse in writing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-94	Dear Parliament, We will continue the work of the Parliament with immediate questions. Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Where is the money of the Újpest people? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, the citizens of Újpest are concerned with two negative events. One is the closure of the Károlyi Hospital, which we have already discussed here with the Secretary of State, and the other is the Quaestor Bond of the municipality. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State about the second, because it is a matter of public money and public wealth, and he is right to be interested in the whereabouts of the citizens of Újpest. As far as I know, the money of the citizens of Újpest came to Quaestor Zrt. in the form of a government bond worth two billion HUF. The deposit is not the property of the organization that manages it, it's due back to the Újpest people, but so far they haven't received it. I would like to say that it is interesting to think about the fact that until Százhalombatta and Fót's municipality asked for publicity of the press, they also filed a complaint, while the management of the Újpest municipality did not take advantage of this possibility. I ask Mr. Secretary of State: does the municipality legitimately expect you to get your money back from the deposit, and when was this supposed to happen or when was it supposed to happen? Will the Hungarian National Bank be responsible for this case, or is it responsible for the local government management of Újpest? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[13.20]]
u2015-10-26-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here, you have two minutes.
u2015-10-26-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, due to financial irregularities committed by brokerage companies, or violations of laws or crimes, some municipalities' budgets are also affected. It is necessary to treat separately which brokerage company the municipalities have invested in and what types of investments the municipalities have placed. Quaestor was able to properly distribute government bonds during its operation and municipalities also purchased government bonds. The Municipality of Újpest purchased a government bond worth HUF 2 billion, which was traceable after Quaestor's bankruptcy that the government bond of HUF 2 billion was KELER Zrt. is present on your security account. The elimination of Quaestor is a process, it is in progress. The Metropolitan Court has appointed the Financial Stability and Settlement Nonprofit Ltd. as the insolvency administrator of the company. Obviously, with regard to the current situation of liquidation and the timing of liquidation, the liquidator can set a certain date. Just as you have received the answer to your previous interpellation or question that Károlyi Hospital will not be closed, and that Újpest people can use healthcare services in the same number of places of service, so I can tell you about the Újpest municipality's money that the Újpest municipality has purchased sovereign debt and that this is in the securities account at KELER. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-98	The congressman has one minute to reply.
u2015-10-26-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I know that this is a complicated question, and Mr Secretary of State has not been able to answer my question in substance. He didn't answer me whether this thing was legal, he didn't answer, he only answered in perspective when the municipality would receive this HUF 2 billion back. The question also arises as to whether Quaestor is a transparent company in the context of the Public Finance Act. Could the Municipality of Újpest have placed his money here, or should it have been placed in sovereign debt with a more secure company? Based on your answer, such answers have been given to the municipality to examine it, I am not going to do much good to tell the electorate that they are investigating this issue. So we stayed in a stalemate. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-100	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to respond, you have a minute.
u2015-10-26-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Local authorities have the possibility to manage and place their savings and investments in the safest possible way in accordance with the legislation. The placement of their investments is the right of the municipalities to do so for their own benefit and on their own responsibility. This was the case before. As I said, Quaestor also traded sovereign debt. He also traded corporate stock. In this case, the municipality purchased sovereign debt, so the municipality rightly expected that its money invested in sovereign debt would appear in sovereign debt, and could access it at any time, and, as I said, KELER had this sovereign debt worth HUF 2 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-102	Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the Parliament, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question: "Are you not afraid of anything? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Defence István Simicskó to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the honourable Member whether he accepts the person who is responding. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-103	I don't accept the identity of the responder. I respect the Minister, but I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2015-10-26-104	Honourable Congressman, In that case, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. In this case, the next better speaker shall have the floor. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "This is how you steal - in the entertainment industry of fidesz corruption. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó, Minister of Defence, as a result of his urgent public service. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity.
u2015-10-26-105	I'll take it. Although I would have expected an answer from the Prime Minister, I will, of course, accept it from Minister Simicskó.
u2015-10-26-106	In that case, you have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-26-107	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In fact, Béla Kovács supported Jobbik. It's a public record available to everyone. Well, I just wanted to make that clear to you, in order to save you a mandatory communication circle, and to be able to speak with you in substance. At the same time, it is also a fact of how the government favours Andy Vajna, how much tax relief is granted. In fact, only his cash registers are not connected to the IRS. It is also a fact that he is fleeing his casino profits of unknown size to tax havens at the last penny; and, yes, the fact is that Andy Vajna is not a tax ethic, by the way. Is that why it was smaller? $6.5 million -- inconvenience at the U.S. tax authority. This is also a public record available to everyone. After that, only the early riser, hardworking little man whose tax forints are played by Fidesz: why is it worth maintaining this shameful, honorable situation for the government? And how much can this on-call pet pay back to Fidesz's party pot? You and the Hungarian Government together [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they are responsible for the good reputation of our country and through it for the dignity of 10 million people. I ask: what does the government intend to do to remove this serious corruption charge from Hungary; or how does it feel to pay the mercenary cosmos with public money? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-108	Thank you very much. Minister István Simicskó responds. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Andy Vajna, I believe, is well-known and important in the domestic film industry. In 2011, he took the position as a government commissioner to contribute, among other things, to the cultural uplift of Hungary, to the survival of Hungarian film culture and to strengthen the Hungarian culture. Andy Vajna is an esteemed member of the Hungarian and international film industry, who, since his arrival in the Hungarian film industry, has, I must say, created order in the chaos of that time. He did this not only professionally but also economically. You're doing an excellent job. There is no greater proof of this, such as the Hungarian-directed Saul's son, which has brought outstanding international success, as he received the Grand Prize of the Jury at the 68th Cannes Film Festival this May. Through his work as a government commissioner, several famous foreign filmmakers and actors were lured into our country, including Christopher Lambert and Antonio Banderas. After Andy Vajna was appointed as a government commissioner in the film industry, he resigned from his film interests. Companies that have some kind of working relationship with Vajna pay public taxes in the respective countries in a traceable way. The Film Fund, set up in 2011, supported the production of 54 films in Hungarian and Hungarian co-productions intended for cinema distribution until August 2015, of which 24 were already visible at cinemas and international film festivals. I must say, honourable Member, on the basis of the considerations you have mentioned to Andy Vajna, that casinos pay toy taxes and are obliged to do so, so it is a fair, taxing activity and indeed a support for the Hungarian film industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-110	The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder in one minute.
u2015-10-26-111	Dear Minister, I think we have a different view of why Andy Vajna took the post as a government commissioner at the time. I think that because he was honoured in the US, he had to go back to Hungary because of his tax debts. That's one of them. [[13.30]] But I know that you are important to Hungary's reputation, and I very much hope that you will be the engine of the Hungarian government now that you have become a minister so that Andy Vajna, this offshore knight, will no longer be able to steal the money of Hungarian taxpayers under the law. Please do everything you can to ensure that the dignity of Hungary, the dignity of the Hungarian people, can be restored to the fact that such an offshore knight will no longer be granted tax incentives and various government donations. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-112	Mr. Secretary, one minute.
u2015-10-26-113	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think we are all interested in the development and strengthening of the Hungarian film industry. I would like to refer to the historical times when, following Trianon, the Hungarian audio film industry and the production of audio films, related to the name of Kunó Klebelsberg, former Minister of Religion and Culture, began and was formed, and Hungarians across the border were shown a lot of Hungarian films in cinemas in order to preserve and save the Hungarian language. I think, in a sense, that film production, the film industry, is very important in this regard, Andy Vajna. I trust that you will continue to do this fairly, and we will obviously see the support and reinforcement of the Hungarian film industry in the coming period. It is important to get out of Hungary films that show Hungary, make Hungary known, show Hungarian culture and Hungarian talent. Thank you very much for accepting my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Delivery, world, stage? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the honourable Member whether he accepts the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-115	It'll be great, Mr. President. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-10-26-116	We understand and understand each other.
u2015-10-26-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that we will be able to talk a lot more about land privatisation today and how wise it is or not wise, and whether it goes to fidesz oligarchs or not; for this reason it would be completely abstract now, and I just wanted to ask this question last week to the questions of the credit facility. Because from the beginning of your communication, you are discussing that strengthening family and small farms is the goal of this sale, and therefore the purpose of the credit facility. At the same time, it can be seen that if approximately 370-380 thousand hectares of land are lost, then the size of the land is 350-400 billion in funding against Hungarian farmers. On the other hand, there is a 150 billion credit line in the bank structure, as far as I can see. First of all, my respectful question is: do you think that it is about 200 billion that is sewn into the pillows of Hungarian farmers, these small and family farmers who keep this difference at home, of which shopping must be guaranteed? So this relatively large difference is definitely an eye spot. It also makes an eye for what farmers they may be, and for what small family farmers, for whom a 300 million credit line is provided for each person, so that they can go up to 300 million on the loan. Obviously, it is here again that the small and the families who can make use of this $300 million framework arise. And obviously, as a last question about the credit facility, you said that it wasn't about putting tenants in position, compared to that, 10 percent will be self-reliance on the loan, who are currently tenants, and 20 percent, so double the self-power for those who do not currently have the right to rent. This serves the broad interest of society, because if you are right and indeed 7500 are currently entitled to rent, it is still a relatively small number compared to over 100,000 farmers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-26-118	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs, do your best because the congressman is strict.
u2015-10-26-119	Thank you very much for your encouragement, Mr. President. I will try to answer this question to the Member's pleasure. First of all, what you have put up, the HUF 150 billion, is whether it will be suitable to satisfy everyone's purchase of land with credit. I think it's obvious from the material, but it's good that we're talking about it, so it's a start-up framework that the bank has, and then, of course, if it means that it's still necessary to provide a credit line, then I don't think it's going to be a problem, you can still borrow it. Moreover, this is only the public resource, if I may say so, which is available, but we very much hope that market and banking players will activate themselves and provide credit for this purchase of land. But I think it's an open-and-shut thing. The 300 million per person: why 300 million per person is very simple, if I may say so, there is a professional response to this. If we take into account the rule of fist rule that it is about one million forints/hectare, which stands out as a national average price, and a natural person can buy 300 hectares under the Land Traffic Act, then the question arises that 300 million, but not a little more, because the aim is not to buy more or more, but precisely that those who want to participate in this program and do not have adequate collateral can obtain credit for it. Tenants, not tenants: first of all, I would like to lay out, the land for farmers in the programme for all the people who use state land - now I say on the hectares - about half of it is what has been found by the farmer or by the user. The other half was leased before 2010. So I would like to nuance from this point of view, but, of course, it is not a problem if the tenant wants to buy it. I think it's a logical answer from the bank that if it's a tenant who's had several years [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Or you have a chance to repay that loan for a decade, and he's using it, he's taking up the area payment, so the bank says that I see less risk, so a smaller part of you is enough. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2015-10-26-120	There's a rejoinder, Congressman. Here.
u2015-10-26-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, let me ask you for sure: will the funding bank have the capital to make up to 150 billion more available? Will this credit line be granted to any customer who is involved in this? My next question is obviously related to the fact that you were saying that it was approx. half of the current tenants are those who... [[Bitay Márton Örs intervenes.]] So, projected on a hectare, it's about half the person who's entitled here. Let me ask you, then, if I've taken it right from your words, that it's not a goal not to buy tenants, so that the explicit goal here is that this 3,500 people or I don't know, then... yeah, sorry, I wanted to split the 7500, but then it's half of the territory. So this 6 to 7,000 people is actually the target group for this construction? Obviously, the last question that arises here is whether a farmer who does not have a single hectare of land is a life - style farmer. Because when it comes to a $300 million budget, in your opinion, who has zero land, is the same farmer who will create jobs? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-26-122	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-123	Thank you very much. In a minute, very briefly, but we're going to talk about this. The bank, I think, should we put it aside, on debate day we will be able to talk a lot more about how much credit lines are available, but I think that this will not be a problem, whether in terms of public or market bank financing. Whether we want to favour the tenants or not, allow me to put this in a different context. The aspect is not that of the tenant, but that of the resident family farmer. If he's the tenant now, there's nothing wrong with him, pick up the loan, buy the land, win the bid, he can have it. If he's not the tenant at the moment, this option is still open to him. The important thing is to be a local family farmer, a farmer. And to whom this programme is so beneficial, I would like to emphasise once again that who is the farmer is a law on who counts as a farmer. He can shop, we don't narrow it down. The Hungarian citizen, if you like, is a narrowing down. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] But on the law, we don't narrow down, anyone who meets the legal conditions, and on public bidding, gives the most money, can buy this land. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-26-124	Dear Parliament, Member Attila Gelencsér, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] He says he'll take it. You have the floor, please.
u2015-10-26-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On average, the decrease in consumer prices by 0.2 per cent resulted in the increase in real wages in the first eight months of the year once again exceeding net wage increases. Thus, at national level, real earnings have increased by 3.9 percent, without taking into account the impact of public employment. With this, real wages in Hungary have been steadily rising for 32 months. At the national economic level, gross earnings amounted to HUF 243 100, net income excluding family tax relief, between January and August 159 300, which represents an increase of 3.7 percent on an annual basis, both as a result of the unchanged tax system. Excellent GDP data, continuously improving employment and falling prices are projected to increase further numbers and increase real earnings. [[13.40]] Positive processes have a positive impact on the income situation of the population and also contribute to an increase in internal consumption. The government stopped the price increases, and in essence and in all of them prices have not increased, which has not been seen since the 1960s. Everyone knows that inflation is a tax on the poor, a hidden tax, and therefore the poorer are the main winners of low inflation. Dear Secretary of State, Our common goal is to keep as much money as possible with Hungarian families, to increase household savings and to make up for earlier delays. Thanks to low inflation, wages are worth more than a year ago. I ask Mr Secretary of State whether due to our exemplary economic performance there is a prospect of further real wage growth. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-126	Secretary of State, please.
u2015-10-26-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would like to report to you positive developments in two areas. One area is the development of employment numbers and the other is wage growth, real wage growth, for which you have already provided figures and figures. But first, let us look at the employment figures, because they are at least as important in the area that you mentioned in your speech and question. According to KSH's report, in the summer of 2015, the number of employees was already 4 million,251,000, and since the change of regime, no such high employment rate has been measured in Hungary. This year alone, the number of employees increased by 134 thousand, i.e. by 3.2 percent compared to the previous year, compared to the same period of the previous year. Let's look at the last five years. The employment rate improved from 54,6 percent to 64.5 percent, corresponding to an increase of almost 10 percentage points. I would like to add a few additions to the data you have already provided in connection with the increase in wages and real wages. It is also possible to report positive developments in terms of wages, and for several years, over two years, wages have been steadily increasing, real wages in the national economy. In the last eight months, it has increased by 4 percent at national level. August data is even more impressive because in the last summer month the purchasing value of wages increased by 5.4 percent at the national economy level, the acceleration is clearly due to increasing wage payments in the public sector, but also in the competitive sector throughout the year. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Between 3.5 and 4 percent of real wages were rising. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-128	Thank you very much. Congressman, I'll be with you in a minute.
u2015-10-26-129	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. I asked him about the future, and he didn't have time for that; I suppose in the next one-minute round he will be able to do that. In any case, the fact that employment is so high today, I would like to tell Mr Secretary of State that the situation in my constituency, Kaposvár, has improved significantly by 1,600 in recent years, the number of unemployed people has fallen by this amount, which, in contrast to opposition charges, seems to be half of which, about 800 public workers, and the other half, in the economy, in the real sector. So we feel the trend of acceleration, improvement on our own skin or on our skin, it is really good in Kaposvár and its surroundings, but what it will be like in the future, I look forward to very much in the next minute. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-130	There you go. You're welcome to hear it.
u2015-10-26-131	There was no time to talk about the future in the two minutes. Of course, I can also provide a positive forecast of employment data, especially because there are programmes that will help people to find their jobs on the competition market with various grants. But he asked his question about the rise in real wages and the rise in wages, and I would like to say a few thoughts. In addition to still low inflation, we expect that the current trends in the business sector will continue until the end of the year, so the 3.5-4 percent wage increases will continue, so that real wage growth between 3 and 4 percent will be achieved. In the public sector, we can predict an increase higher than in the first half of the year, as the impact of wage increases put into effect in July will take place in the coming months, so hopefully [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Everybody's gonna feel that in their wallets growing. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-132	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Lőrinc Mészáros will be the landlord of Fidesz? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs as a response to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept [[For signal:]] . He's nodding to accept it. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz, on the side of the hardworking little man, said for a while. Such a hardworking little man Lőrinc Mészáros, mayor of Felsút, entrepreneur. But let us not forget Lajos Simicska, György Gattyán, Andy Vajna, Rachel Orbán and her husband, András Giro-Szász, Árpád Habony and, among other things, Antal Rogán. Just a few of those names who owe their wealth to them because they work hard. We don't give anything to anyone on a discount. Sándor Fazekas told Népszabadság. According to the Minister of Agriculture, the gasman Lőrinc Mészáros, who can get more land, is a farmer because he is on the list of farmers - he replied. Lőrinc Mészáros and his businesses can be the biggest winners of the government's land sale program. In the previous cycle, it was only rented out, and now it would adopt the state lands of Fejér County, which Lőrinc Mészáros pulled out from under the feet of local farmers by the Fidesz government. According to press reports today, Fidesz mayor of Fidesz Felcsút's company would have access to land assets worth nearly HUF 1 billion. Would it be a coincidence that Viktor Orbán became one of the richest people in the country in a few years after the Orbán government took power in 2010? In total, the State would sell around 640 hectares of land currently used by Lőrinc Mészáros in Fejér County. This will give you a pre-emptive right to buy more than 240 hectares, which means no one will bid on them. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: how much longer will the peasant blinding go? Do you really believe that family farms include land worth next to HUF 1 billion, which could be owned by Lőrinc Mészáros? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Will there be new landlords with serfs? Who are they going to be, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-10-26-134	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, two minutes, please.
u2015-10-26-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would only like to respond to his sharp voice that he is a hardworking little man in your philosophy. We don't talk about little people, we're talking about hardworking people. We don't want to label anyone who's small, who's big. We're talking about hardworking people. And if you'd like to give us a list of hardworking people, I really don't want to embarrass you, but I would also like to think of names, such as Gordon Bajnai, Ferenc Gyurcsány or Mr Leisztinger, and it would be possible to list for a long time those who, with the support of the state, have managed to put in their pockets billions, perhaps even billions, which are difficult to express in euro for many decades. That's why we're saying that there shouldn't be a contest, there shouldn't be a debate, there shouldn't be any points, there should be a simple legal condition and a public bid. Those who meet the legal requirements are typically not one person, Lőrinc Felcsút is not Mészáros, but there are hundreds of people in the farmer's register, or those who make the most money at the bid, and that there is no debate, so the state gives a loan of less than 2 percent, and those who buy the land can buy it. So I'd like to reject your claim that we'd be able to get anyone to land. The government won't give anyone any land assets. If you want to buy land, whether you want to buy a hectare, ten hectares or a hundred hectares, you have to meet the legal requirements and bid better than the other owners, and you have to deal with the order of pre-emption, whether there is a local livestock farm, if there is a bio-farmer, if there is a neighbor, a partner in ownership, which will all be ahead of them at the public auction. [[13.50]] So I'm suggesting to you, too, that the people working hard, and please accept that this is not a tender. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] public auction on legal terms. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-26-136	Thank you very much. The congresswoman's next in a minute.
u2015-10-26-137	You know, Secretary of State, Lőrinc Mészáros said that the good Lord, luck, and Viktor Orbán made him rich. Well, neither luck nor good God has anything to do with this, except Viktor Orbán and your government. The other thing you're right about is that you don't represent the hardworking little man. You're well aware of that, and when you say you don't need a tender here, you know that very well, you've already run the traffic dog. You were one of the people who sat on the jury when the Trafiks were divided. If anyone knows how to screw with hardworking little people in Hungary today [[It's grumpy. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Then you know there's no one else to ask. You've been honoured as Secretary of State for your involvement in the traff. I can't accept your answer. [[Dr. János Fónagy: You don't have to!]] We are going to debate today and we are going to tell you what's wrong and what you've done to the hardworking little people in this country for five years.
u2015-10-26-138	Thank you. Before the Secretary of State answers, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the synonym of the dignity of this House. The synonymary is wide, it is worth studying for everyone. [[Defiance.]] Now, that's how the Secretary of State got the opportunity to collect in his mind the ammunition needed to respond. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to live up to your intelligence in the style of expressing my answer. What I would like to say to you, my dear Congresswoman, is returning to the little man, not the little man, so that you don't qualify. I think it's best not to judge it, but to say that we're talking about hardworking people. It is not necessary to add that they are small or large, fat or thin people. And in relation to what you have said, I am very pleased that in a short two-minute speech we have reached the stage behind me, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I do not want to buy, and I am not even a farmer at the moment. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: More!]] What we want, however, is for farmers to buy, and family farms to acquire property. In this way we will protect the Hungarian agricultural land, and we will not make it appropriate for what you want the large plants to acquire property. Thank you so much for listening. [[Anita Bering: Only the friends have land! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-26-140	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Why does the Minister of the Interior embarrass himself? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I ask the honourable Member if he will accept it. [[György Szilágyi: Yes.]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The migrant situation has shown a significant difference in thinking in the context of the 20th century. and Article 21 (2) (a) Between the parties of the century. Jobbik has asked that the crisis caused by migrants should not become a scene of political conflict and political interests. Therefore, Jobbik constructively supported the government in dealing with the crisis, we did not see it taking or bringing to Jobbik politically, it was only in the interests of the country. As we know, the MSZP was not looking out for the country on this issue, and it has now come to light that Fidesz is no better than MSZP, Fidesz cannot break up with XX. With the thinking of centuries of parties. As you know, they have given medals to settlements that have actually endured this crisis. Here the mayors received the medal, but it is clear that through the leaders, the communities that have endured in this difficult situation have received it. I also congratulate these communities of interest from here. But it's weird that the mayor of Asotthalom and the community of Asotthalom didn't get credit from you. Why, when there was an incredible pressure on the settlement and the people who lived there stood above power? Why? Could it be because in the municipal elections, they chose a better mayor with 100% support? Or is it because they told us in 2014 that migration would be a problem? At the time when you said to the Jobbik's proposals, which the MSZP said there was nothing wrong with us, we shouldn't scare people. Or was it because the Home Secretary was ashamed that he wasn't helping when he was asked to help with an SUV in the field guard's more efficient work? That's not what happened. There's something to think about, you know, how you guys act in such a soulless, pompous way after all. You are not honoring László Toroczkai, but teaching all our countrymen who are represented by your mayor. Trust me, this isn't gonna work. Many times they tried to humiliate these people, but they won't be able to humiliate them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm asking when this seemingly pointless and petty behavior of yours is going to change. [[Dr. István Józsa: The XXII. It's a century! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-26-142	Thank you very much. I'd like everyone to respect the time limits imposed by the house rules. Secretary of State, please.
u2015-10-26-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The migrant situation, the immigration pressure or the wave of refugees that has reached Europe has indeed put Hungary to a very serious test. Otherwise, the Hungarian government acted decisively and in time, acting on time. [[Tamás Sneider: Only a year later!]] As I think we all know, you know, in the days, for example yesterday, virtually a substantial number of migrants have not arrived on the territory of Hungary. The government recognised the necessity that, if the European Union is not able to defend its own borders, it will not give support or follow the timetable to protect the external parts and external borders of the European Union, for example in Greece, Hungary must take action. According to this thought, a temporary technical lock was first built at the Hungarian-Serbian border and then at the Hungarian-Croatian border. As a result, the migrant wave is now avoiding Hungary. Local authorities, which were particularly affected by migration, have constantly indicated their needs and raised the support they need, the state aid they need. At the moment, there are 22 municipal needs that provide an opportunity and a basis for the support of municipalities. Local authorities that have had to cope with additional tasks and additional costs as a result of migratory pressures may receive the necessary support in the coming days. Indeed, after the celebrations, the leaders of the municipalities received awards, a number of municipalities that were subject to significant migratory pressure. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Only the most significant left out! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-26-144	Rejoice, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-145	Thank you very much for the floor. The Secretary of State told me a lot of things, but he didn't say the name of Asotthalom, even though it was about him at the moment. He didn't say anything about asking you for help, but you didn't give them any help. Then people joined forces and bought the SUV out of public relations so they could do their job normally. [[István Szávay: Shame!]] I told you that even though you've tried many times, you won't be able to humiliate these people. They are the ones who have set you an example of patriotism, cooperation, community thinking. You've humiliated yourself right now. In the name of the Jobbik, I thank the people of Digesthal for their support from here. We gave them this medal metaphorically. If you're saying you're helping these settlements, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that there are two applications in there for Asotthalom right now. Here, support them in this, and we'll see if the Secretary of State is telling the truth in the Parliament, or if he's just fooling around, as usual. [[Novak's Performance: That's right! This isn't the Red Star Medal! Shame on you. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-26-146	Thank you very much. Rejoice, Secretary of State, please.
u2015-10-26-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I said earlier, all the municipalities that have applied for support as a result of the migratory pressure, and this support is necessary for the performance of the tasks of the municipality... [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches, isn't the Field Guard?]] The field guard in this case is obviously not [[István Szávay: Then what is it?]] It was not the task of the field guard to collect migrants. [[There's a lot of noise from Jobbik's benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The municipality's task was and is now to ensure public services in the territory of the municipality, such as the transport of municipal waste, such as healthy drinking water and the rest. For all this and for all the costs incurred here, the government provides the additional resources. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[István Szávay: Shame! The Foreman of Novak: Watch out, count! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-26-148	Dear Parliament, Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Is there already a quantifiable result in supporting 16 priority sports? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, When the Parliament decided in 2011 on a comprehensive review of the sport law, the amendment created the introduction of state aid on the basis of programme financing funds in the system of sports grants. Based on this, 16 so-called flagship sports have been financed in 2013 to ensure long-term development. [[14.00]] Based on the professional proposal of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the selection of priority sports has been made in view of the efficiency of the sports and the traditional Hungarian success. We have managed to change the socialist governance practice of long and long years by not receiving, on an ad hoc basis, significant State aid for certain sports on a curative basis or through political relations, but only after the preparation of a high-quality long-term sport development concept can sports associations have access to state resources, and the use of the funds is under strict control by the Ministry's Secretary of State for Sport. The KDNP faction considers sport to be a matter of heart, because we believe and believe that using sport as a tool we can build a healthier society. We believe and believe that every forint we invest in sport is the building of the nation's future, the health of our children, the physical and mental balance. Dear Secretary of State, Two years slowly pass in the lives of 16 major sports. I respectfully ask what experience the government has in implementing development concepts. Can the results be quantified? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-150	Thank you very much. In the absence of Minister Sávolt-Szabó Tünde State Secretary, she responds. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-151	Thank you. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Sport and health-conscious lifestyles are of paramount importance to the government, which is why it is committed to developing and supporting Hungarian sports. To this end, in 2013 the government decided to support 16 priority sports. The funding started on the basis of programmes developed by the sports associations and associations, approved by the MOB and the Sports State Secretariat, with the provision of almost HUF 8 billion per year, divided on the basis of performance indicators and professional needs. The main objectives of the grants are to improve international effectiveness and prepare for the Olympics. The programmes focus on competition sport, the development of associations, workshops, academies and training, but the preparation of selected frameworks, the provision of a sports health background, participation in domestic and international competitions and the organisation of competitions are also important objectives. In addition, the support scheme includes the development of facilities, including the expansion and renovation of the Olympic and Training Centres. It is important to mention the direct support of athletes and coaches, as besides the scholarship of Gerevich and sports stars, I can say that the priority coaching status, in which professionals can be honored, is very important not only in terms of material but also in terms of morals. As a result of the program, the number of certified athletes in the sports concerned increased by one third, the number of coaches increased by more than 30% and the number of member organisations increased by more than five percent. Honourable Congressman, Based on the experience of the past two years, it can be said that the aid takes place under strict accounting arrangements, that the programme works effectively, that the financial and professional background of the associations is ensured [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thus, a predictable vision can be given by 2020 in order to improve Hungarian sport and re-education. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-152	Thank you very much. Reply to Congressman in a minute.
u2015-10-26-153	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I am convinced that the last two years have given many Hungarian settlements, Hungarian self-governments, Hungarian cities, including Cegléd, a significant development potential for various sports. Cegléd, as a city of wrestling, has very serious results not only in wrestling, but also in judo, but also in handball, male NB I, women's NB I basketball team, and we need additional similar support. I am convinced that if we manage to clean up the sports hall next year, we will make a lot of progress in helping team sports, and we will also look forward to supporting the government and the State Secretariat. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-154	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, one minute.
u2015-10-26-155	Mr President, when national sport development was launched in 2013, priority sports programmes focused mainly on financial problems resulting from a long-standing lack of resources. In 2014 and 15 all professional associations continued their development programmes, so besides the development of human resources, the development of the facility, organizational operations and international sports diplomacy have also been strengthened. The results therefore show that we are on the right track, that the support for the development of sport for the priority sports sectors is in place, and that it provides the support and support for work on the basis of an undisturbed programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-156	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, the representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. The government is fighting with billions more against Hungary's dependence on the automotive industry? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll take it.
u2015-10-26-157	Yeah.
u2015-10-26-158	Great. In that case, it's up to you. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, When the government last provided support to SMEs for job creation, it provided a total of HUF 3 billion to create 1610 new jobs, i.e. HUF 1.8 million per workplace. Compared to this, the Orbán government now contributed HUF 6 billion to the creation of 380 jobs for the Volkswagen group Audi, i.e. the next time the support to SMEs was given to the Orbán government. In the meantime, the government insists on the principleless position that it has nothing to do with the Volkswagen fraud, does not investigate, does not seek compensation, does not impose penalties. Inaction is particularly incomprehensible in the light of the fact that the government car park of more than a thousand vehicles is almost exclusively composed of diesel-powered cars of that manufacturer. Meanwhile, cars emit significantly more pollution in the air than promised, contributing to a multitude of deaths and diseases. Moreover, the government supports the Audit and other multinationals not only with investment grants but also with huge tax incentives. For example, Audi paid a tax of HUF 1.2 billion on its profit of HUF 98.6 billion in 2012, i.e. the tax rate was barely higher than 1.2 percent. At the same time, the tax rate for a Hungarian SME is at least 10%. Therefore, I ask: is this support in line with the real interests of protecting the Hungarian economy and the health of Hungarian people, by reducing dependence on the automotive industry? When will Hungarian SMEs finally receive the same support from the Orbán government as individual multinationals? Thank you.
u2015-10-26-160	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Tallai, please.
u2015-10-26-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Looking at the questions I've been answering over the past few weeks, it's very difficult to unravel the economic policy of the LMP, now allow me to try in a few seconds. According to the LMP, there should be no Hungarian-owned banks in Hungary, the Hungarian State should not participate in the transformation of the financial system by state aid. In Hungary, do not have public employees, because either of them or whatever problems you have with public employment, it is not a good system, let us not operate it. Then in Hungary, don't be contacted by company managers who have more knowledge, more education, more education, more experience, don't earn more in the public sector than the average income, because they don't deserve it, because otherwise, what about the poor in Hungary. And here it comes essentially with the question that there should be no foreign-owned vehicle manufacturing industry in Hungary, no company, because right now it is said that this money should be given to SMEs. I think it is fortunate that the Hungarian government does not think so. This is not the way he thinks about Audi Hungária Motor Kft., he does not think about the whole automotive industry, as the automotive industry in 2014 gave 26 percent of our industrial production, 6.8 percent of our GDP. In particular, Audi Hungária Kft. stands out. its performance, which accounts for 9.3 percent of the total Hungarian exports. [[14.10]] Nearly 12,000 people work for this company, and has achieved 2321 billion revenues so far in Hungary. Its performance is also outstanding for the Hungarian economy. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-162	Congresswoman, please.
u2015-10-26-163	Secretary of State, LMP's economic policy is consistent, unlike yours, and you have said quite differently in opposition than you say in government. We remember very well that when they were in opposition, they said that the salary of state corporate leaders was too high, now that they are on the government, they raise it to 5 million - I don't want to classify it. The problem with LMP's economic policy is that you're saying something other than what you're doing. They said that they support small and medium-sized enterprises against multinationals, but that is not what is happening in practice. Let's see, the figures show that multinational companies are supported ten times, twenty times, thirty times, multiple times, as small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, even though the vast number of jobs, 80 percent, are provided by small and medium-sized enterprises and not multinational companies. It would be good for you to say the same in government as you have in opposition.
u2015-10-26-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative István Szilárd Németh... [[András Tállai stands up. Interview from Fidesz: Rejoice!]] ... ifitwasn'tforrejoicebythetime. [[Defiance.]] So it's Secretary of State Tallai's turn. I apologize.
u2015-10-26-165	Thank you, Mr. President. It is fortunate that the opinion of the LMP is only known in opposition, and this economic policy is not the majority in the country that you represent, because it is quite certain that Hungary's economic performance would not then be one of those above the European average, and our GDP growth would certainly not have been among the first three countries in Europe in the last year, but we will still have a good year. The accusation is that the Hungarian government does not support small and medium-sized enterprises. In a completely different way and by other means, as a significant proportion of EU funds for 2014-20 will be allocated to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. We are also aware that two thirds of employees are covered by this sector. And the government's position is contrary to what you say: the Hungarian government also supports large suppliers and producers and supports small and medium-sized enterprises. By the way, suppliers of small and medium-sized enterprises also deliver to such companies as Audi Motor Hungaria. So the government is also on the right track on this issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-166	Thank you very much. Member István Németh Szilárd, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is the reason why the left is so pro-immigration? It's an address. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. Here you go, if you'll take it. [[Fidesz elegance!]]
u2015-10-26-167	Thank you very much, of course I accept it, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Europe is in great trouble, and the migration crisis is capable of destabilizing governments, countries and the entire European continent. We need a strong and clear response, a clear agenda and action plan for the whole European Union, Mr.Orbán said at the Congress of the People's Party in Spain. Well, Hungary has given this strong, pre-planned, scheduled response, and this was the closure of the southern part of the country, the southern border. This has its own positive consequences, by the way. The figures that lie here today, the most recent reports before us, make it clear to everyone that, while more than 45 thousand migrants arrived on the green border in Hungary in a week before the full border closure, this number is more than the total number of illegal immigrants in 2014, a total of 227 people were detained and expelled from the country in the last week, i.e. a maximum of 30 people per day. Moreover, in terms of the latest border closure, virtually no one has been crossing the Croatian-Hungarian border section for days now. Well, success is obvious. Perhaps we could have expected the left side of Hungary to acknowledge that we have succeeded in stopping what no one in Europe has. Nevertheless, they continue to pursue policies for migrants with all kinds of fantasies, Gyurcsányi delusions and housing assignments. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how he sees the essence of this and whether the success resulting from the implementation of the border closure can really be recognised, a unique success at European level. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-168	Secretary of State Scratch in two minutes, please.
u2015-10-26-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have all seen, in recent months, that Europe is experiencing an unprecedented wave of migrations, and I think we can safely say that the consequences of a new migration are coming. Europe wakes up late, wakes up late, the European Union has not yet been able to provide uniform and good answers to the migration crisis. The Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament, has decided that the country must be protected. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure that the legislation is respected by everyone, so that cross-borders also comply with the legislation. The fundamental condition of this is that those who have the necessary documents may cross the borders, or, if they wish to apply for asylum, they are subject to the legal asylum procedure. Today, we can see that this is not what is going on in Europe, Hungary has led all those who wish to enter the country and the EU through the construction of a temporary technical border closure on the border sections of Serbia and Croatia. The effect of this is that 17 people really tried to enter the Serbian border last day and 2 to enter the Croatian border. Obviously, the migration crisis cannot be resolved by a country, not only by the European Union, but also by means of a number of countries outside Europe. Why Europe is delaying and why left-wing parties are delaying, it is difficult to say this, but it is clear that in Europe, momentary interests are being considered, momentary voting and voting options. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-170	Thank you very much. Rejoice from Congressman.
u2015-10-26-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's another data, but this is from the Slovenian Ministry of Interior. Yesterday, the number of illegal arrivals at the green border in Slovenia broke down all other numbers, 11 318 people arrived in Slovenia, and since the southern border closure, since they could not come to Hungary, the Croatians have led 73 553 illegal immigrants to Slovenia. So, with the decision of the Hungarian government to listen to the people who had a clear expectation of the government that the country should be protected; with its decision to build the technical and legal border barrier; with its decision to put this border closure in place, it saved the country from 73 553 illegal immigrants. Obviously, we have managed to address the problem, but we have made it clear at every forum in the European Union, at the United Nations Forum, that the solution can be found by addressing the problem at its root. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-172	Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-26-173	Thank you very much. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We have always stressed that those who need help must be given help. However, this cannot be based on a series of infringements. This is why the Hungarian Government is of the opinion that the right registration must be made at the external borders of the European Union, that there should be points at the external borders of Europe, the options where it is possible to decide whether someone needs protection or is an economic immigrant. Our position was clear all the time: to Hungary, anyone could only come through safe countries. So the accusation that Hungary has withdrawn the possibility of aid from those who really needed it does not hold up. Today, the leaders of several European countries say that only by preventing illegal movements at the green borders can Europe's value be protected. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-10-26-174	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Do people on farms no longer matter? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-10-26-175	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2015-10-26-176	You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-177	I am now bringing a problem here from the farmland of Inner Nyír to Parliament, and I ask the Secretary of State and the Ministry to try to solve the problem of the people who live there. I'm sure your department knows that ever since the Kecskemét bypass was built, it's almost impossible to get to town from the farmland next to it. National authorities cannot manage to turn from the road to the left, and it is not only impossible to do so by car, but also by bicycle, by foot and by public transport. By bus it is impossible because there is simply no bus stop nearby and on a bicycle because there is simply no bike path. If someone wants to order a newspaper here, the postman can't get the paper out here, and it's hard even to get wood here, because it's hard to explain to the supplier how to get here properly. The other day, it happened that the ambulance had to be navigated for tens of minutes by the locals after they could explain where they could turn so as not to cause an accident. In view of all this, I ask you: do you not abandon the locals, and with a 13 billion-dollar development, the lives of the people who live there will not be lost? What are you going to do and when to solve the problem of the Inner Breeders as soon as possible? When will the bicycle route between Kecskemét and Lajosmizsé finally be completed? Why is NIF Zrt. claiming untruths. about the bicycle route, and why does this company claim that the demand for a bicycle route has not been raised in the locals? Everyone knows they've been fighting for him for a long time. The Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. Why did you stop the construction of the service station, and when will it start again, because it is necessary for the people who live here not to be locked away from the city? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-10-26-178	Thank you very much. Secretary Major, please.
u2015-10-26-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, on 23 August of the current year, we handed over the north side of Kecskemét between highways 5 and 44, which cost about 13.5 billion for more than ten kilometres, which reduced the distance between Budapest and Békéscsaba by ten kilometres. The passage through Kecskemét also became about 10-15 minutes shorter. I think that this road is basically good for both locals, residents of the area and for hundreds of thousands of vehicles and sometimes millions of vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This path was designed in 2007 by the socialist and free Democratic Government, and I have to say that it is well, because it was said that the four-track road cannot make a one-level intersection, but that the right turn turns into traffic, while the left turns are provided with a two-story crossing with a distance of about 800-900 metres. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Not arguing for a moment that each person's access and access is important, so I don't want to say number, and I don't want to compare hundreds of thousands of people with a few dozen or a few hundred people, because they also have a natural need for transport, but let me tell you that before, before road construction, there were two lines of closure, so they couldn't make a left turn before, that is to say, the transport options of the residents, that is, the four-track road hadn't deteriorated. In the case of a better direction, they have improved, because the transport option is better. If you'll allow me, I'll finish it for the next minute.
u2015-10-26-180	Thank you very much. Congresswoman, please.
u2015-10-26-181	Thank you very much, but it is difficult to accept your answer, because I really think that every person matters. As an easy solution, the local government has given the people who want to turn left to turn right onto the dirt road and then drive across the four lanes. They say, however, that the other side should only be born, because there will be no man who can drive through the four lanes in order and without accident, that's for sure. The problem is, now these people can walk on the side of the four-track road in the winter, in the snow, so that they can throw away their garbage, because garbage transport is also a problem in this place. You know, Mr. Secretary, the problem is that these people have been promised the bike route, promised the pedestrian sidewalk, promised the service road, and now they've been locked away from the possibility. Everyone could only make promises, but the promises were not made. Based on the first plans, it can be concluded that these people would have had a normal service route, and they would have been able to fly properly, so that they could travel a mile and a half unnecessarily. Thank you.
u2015-10-26-182	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State will be rejoined.
u2015-10-26-183	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and They may have promised, but they didn't plan it in 2007. At the same time, we will continue to build the existing service road, thereby improving the transport possibilities of the left turners, and connecting to the right-hand traffic with the existing service route is still an option. And for those turning left, I continue to say that cutting through a four-track intersection on a single level is dangerous, and we do not consider this right here or anywhere else in the country, so I suggest that the local government help - including the bus stop and everything that belongs to it - to build the connecting service road to the two-tier passageway. It's a municipal task. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-184	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the agenda for immediate questions. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Parliament, The political debate on the private ownership of state-owned agricultural land, initiated by Mr Tobias József and his fellow Members, follows. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/6541 was given to them. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office submitted a background document for today's political debate, which was received by the group leaders in the Chamber, and the interested parties can find out about it on the website. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Attila Móring to explain the course of the political debate. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-185	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. Further speeches are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government can respond to the discussions in 20 minutes.
u2015-10-26-186	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Ádám Mirkóczki to explain the time frame. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-187	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP groups have initiated a doubling of their timeframe, so that the time frame is divided into 164 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 92 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2015-10-26-188	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place within a maximum time frame of 40 minutes. I give the floor to Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2015-10-26-189	Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have reached the historic turning point of Hungarian agriculture. We're at the beginning of a new era. The government of national affairs, with the sale of state land, has come true a nearly century-old small farmer's idea. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The last remnant of the Soviet Colhoz system disappears. During the communist occupation, the areas abducted from peasantry will once again increase small farms. As Ignác Dányi Minister of Agriculture once said, in the fight against the expansion of foreign nations, it cannot be indifferent to the nation whose hands the Hungarian land is in. Let the land be for those who cultivate it, let the land be for the Hungarian farmers! [[György Balla: That's right!]] [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, The government, Magos, and the National Chamber of Agriculture have accepted this proposal, leaving about 20 percent of the state-owned land permanently in the hands of farmers. Land ownership and ownership of farmers strengthen the economic positions and competitiveness of family farms, farmers. We have the interests of farmers in mind, since as owners, they will not have to pay rent for land use. Our aim is also to strengthen the small estate against the major estates, and to protect the Hungarian agricultural land from the threat of foreign expansion. The majority of fragmented public land is privately owned by contracts for one year that are not financed, leased or difficult to use by the companies of the State. Sales are made transparently and under the same conditions for all Hungarian farmers while ensuring full publicity. Therefore, anyone can be present at the auctions, but only a local Hungarian farmer can buy land. The housing or plant within 20 kilometres must be certified and only natural persons are allowed. It is regrettable that the opposition does not support this effort and wants to put obstacles in the way of the prosperity of Hungarian farmers. It's unfortunate, but not particularly surprising. The estate policy of the Left is now common to us. [[György Balla: That's right.]] However, it is sad that Jobbik also turned to the Constitutional Court for reasons why only Hungarian citizens can participate in the auctions, and so to speak, European citizens of the Member States. This petition was also signed by the Jobbik faction, although it seems that some are now surprised by what they signed. This objection is quite far from the policy of the radical party, which has so far been represented as alleged national. The state may impose any conditions, any circle of beneficiaries in the sale of state land, so such a reduction in the number of auction participants should not be problematic or even a requirement on the part of Hungarian farmers. In any event, it can be said that the anti-ownership united the opposition. This common denominator is anti-hostism for Jobbik, MSZP and LMP when it comes to actions and attacks. [[Ancient Novak: This is not believable.]] We reject this initiative from the Fidesz-KDNP. As I said, the other opposition parties are not to be surprised. The philosophy of the MSZP is that anyone can get land in this country except Hungarian farmers. [[Gábor István Bellozó: What are you doing, talk about it, not about us!]] And the LMP is not surprised at all that you're against it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] LMP doesn't have any rural roots, nor does it hide that there's a shabby fake farmer in the LMP's ranks, who, by the way, was the only farmer, a fake farmer who wanted to buy a protected area in the whole country last year. So he wanted to buy a protected area. [[President Novak: This was the opposition to the opposition, now we hear the government!]] Dear Parliament, The government is determined that the Hungarian land will belong to Hungarian farmers, not foreign companies, not speculators, not stromones. Stromans are excluded by the system anyway, as there will be a 20-year ban on disposal and loading in the fields sold, so taking land from other people's money without the real buyer having access to it for 20 years and not being able to charge it for its own benefit would be risky enough. In a way, it's not realistic. In addition, the stromans should also be local residents, farmers, and they should also submit any credit claims to the banks. All along with sanctions from the Criminal Code. So this line of defense cannot be eluded. This programme is not about them, it is about Hungarian farmers, farmers, agricultural workers. Therefore, all farmers can receive credit for purchases on favourable terms, so everyone starts on the same terms, they only have to provide their own share of the money. Dear Parliament, In the case of land size below 3 hectares, the National Land Fund shall publicly advertise the land to be sold and the minimum price for the land to be sold. This notice may be offered in writing for 45 days and the National Land Fund contract with the highest bidder. In the case of land size above 3 hectares, the method of sale is a public auction. Auction notices have already been published. Auctions from 16 November will be conducted by government offices on behalf of the NFA. Thus, as I have already mentioned, it is not possible to emphasize this enough, any farmer who lives within 20 kilometres of the location of the land on the site or of the land on display, who, together with the land to be acquired, does not obtain more than 300 hectares of land, who is a Hungarian citizen, and who pays 10 percent of the starting price of the land to be applied for as a deposit. It's a clear set of criteria. The auction may take place in person, through legal representation or through a legal representative. For each auction, a notary-certified record shall be drawn up. Auctions will be public, open to the press. It is important that all land sizes must comply with the provisions of the Land Traffic Act. For example, the rules on the order of pre-emptions and the 60-day mandatory suspension. This programme is a small-owner action plan. Land sales do not allow large estates to be built from scattered small parcels. In addition, 80 percent of the land offered for sale is below 10 hectares. Of the 41,000 properties, only 300 of them exceed 100 hectares of land. The majority of the land is thus scattered, small, often costing more for the state due to administrative costs than the rent received from it. This is also a problem for farmers, as the Hungarian state often has an undivided common ownership of the area, small parcels, often the size of closed gardens, tens of thousands of such parcels. After the sale program, there are still 1.5 million hectares of state land left in the National Land Fund, and the NFA spends at least 1-2 billion forints each year on land purchases, making it thousands of hectares per year that cost the state's land assets. This will continue to be the case in the future. So the National Earth Fund is a constantly changing mass of land, some 20 percent of which are now being sold. The 10 national park directorates also own hundreds of hectares of protected natural land per year, which also increases the assets of the National Land Fund. So the state doesn't sell strategic land assets. Forest farms remain state-owned, in addition to protected areas, the lands of state studs, agricultural schools, university, academia and ministry research institutes. Therefore, unlike any false rumor and political propaganda, the land sale programme does not affect protected natural areas. Some of the Natura 2000 network areas are affected, but they have been marketable real estate, and can be sold with the prior agreement of the Minister for Nature Protection. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] In such a case, it is not the area, but the protected natural value on it that is the special treasure; it is certainly well known by the Member who has already wanted to buy such an area. At present, there are a large number of Natura 2000 sites in private hands, so that the level of protection required by nature conservation rules cannot be reduced. According to Hungarian nature conservation law, it doesn't matter whose territory the protected natural value is, it can be ecclesiastical, private or public territory, it is subject to the same rules. It is part of the fact that national park areas, protected areas, unlike Natura 2000, are subject to stricter standards, so their sale is not possible, so the government has no intention, no intention, so it is wrong for the opposition to try to crush them. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The National Land Fund continues to provide land for municipalities, for social and public employment purposes as part of a 15-year free trust. In addition, for certain purposes of public interest, as an example of local development, municipalities have been able to purchase NFA land. They will be able to do so again in the future, but the Ministry of Agriculture has always held that it is advisable to use areas already in the interior, brownfield or abandoned, not agricultural land, for urban development and industrial development. Hungarian agriculture needs agricultural land. It is necessary to continue the agricultural production and, as far as possible, to include as few of them as possible. [[14.40]] Dear Parliament, This day is the overture of the new Hungarian estate policy, which brings to the past the era of socialist large enterprises. We believe that the government of Hungary protects national interests by giving these lands to farmers. We believe that it is a pledge of our common future to strengthen family economies and the middle class of agriculture. It is a historic moment that the people of the countryside will be free to have their foundation in the future, the Hungarian land. If the local farmers take possession of these areas, it is no longer in the common interest of the large farms, or of the foreign agricultural companies or speculators, that the Hungarian farmers will not get their fair share of the land. I am convinced that the Hungarian land is owned by Hungarian farmers in the best place. The best thing for Hungarian farmers and the whole country is that farmers will not be tenants, landlords, but owners. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-190	Thank you, Minister. I salute my fellow Members. [[It was thin!]] The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the keynote speakers will be held in the first round. [[Gábor István Bellozó: That was very weak!]] as a group in a 15-15-minute time frame. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That wasn't very thick, Minister.]] First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-26-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Hungarian land should be for those who cultivate it, i.e. for the Hungarian farmers. I would like to open my speech with a conclusion: today's debate would not be necessary if the opposition representatives also confessed and admitted that the sale of state land is in the interests of Hungarian farmers and the protection of Hungarian agricultural land. On the other hand, they want to play land fortunes for speculators and foreigners. The Magos and the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy initiated, taking into account several factors, a few months ago, the government considered the possibility of selling state-owned land, in such a way as to comply with existing legislation, with favourable financing, while ensuring full transparency. One of the most important of these is that farmers want land, they want the land in their own hands, because it is their safety and the only way to plan their economy in a stable way. Here it is important to mention the issue of generational change, which is one of the biggest challenges facing domestic and European agriculture. According to the 2010 general agricultural survey, two thirds of the managers are over 55 years of age, each of them over 65 years of age. In 2000, three farmers under the age of 35 were over 65 and in 2010 they were over four. In our country, much fewer young people start farming than older people are about to abandon their activities. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that between 2000 and 2010 much more young people have stopped farming than older people. In these unfavourable processes, it is important that young farmers are currently having difficulty or are not able to plan for the long term, because the rental system is not a guarantee for them. The second factor is that it is in our country's primary interest to strengthen small and medium-sized family farms, as farmers are expected to receive less support in the period after 2020 and under more difficult conditions. This is why it is crucial to improve the competitiveness of Hungarian producers in the current EU cycle, because only the successful management of Hungarian producers can guarantee that Hungarian soil remains Hungarian-owned in the long term, and it is essential that long-term investments in agriculture be made, which are safe only on own-owned land. The third is the infringement procedure initiated by the European Union on grounds of land law. On the EU's side, it is clear that the ambition, supported by individual opposition parties, is to soften the land law so that legal persons and foreign citizens can get land as easily as possible. We do not need to go too far to examine what this process would entail: in Romania, it is estimated that there are already between 700 and 800 000 hectares of land on the hands of foreigners, and among the first ten largest Romanian landowners are Lebanese, Dutch, Austrian and Portuguese individuals. Large plants in foreign hands are typically not active in labour intensive sectors, so they do not give jobs to people living in villages, as a result the rural population migrates, the villages are depopulated, but let's see loopholes, which have been exploited by foreigners in Poland and Slovakia. State land must therefore be sold to Hungarian farmers under the current land law. The fourth is that the state, let's face it, does not use these areas, but leases its land, so it appears to be a speculator on the land market with a little exaggeration, and also with rents it draws resources from the economy and agriculture every year. Furthermore, it is not negligible that the sale of public land helps to eliminate undivided joint ownership. Let us look at the facts, fellow Members. 350-380,000 hectares, previously owned by farmers, with nationalisation or other programs, we sell land owned by the state to Hungarian farmers. This is about 20 percent of all state land, and about 6 percent of the total agricultural land in Hungary. The land to be sold is listed in the land register with 50,000 landmarks, of which 40,000 parcels are less than 10 hectares, and 30 thousand parcels less than 3 hectares. These are worth buying for existing agricultural land. Typically, they are ploughers, pastures, nature conservation areas and forests are not affected by this programme. Certain land will, of course, remain state-owned in the long term, and the government will designate by the end of October the areas in which sample farms can operate. In the case of areas below 3 hectares, as usual, sales are made through public advertising. In the case of about 5 thousand properties of less than 3 hectares, the National Land Fund has already concluded the contracts. There have been areas where more than ten people have applied; this shows the need for the programme by the farming community. Public auctions will take place over 3 hectares. At the auctions, the local market price plus 10 percent is the minimum starting price, and at the bid there is no possibility to reduce the price. This is because it is necessary to manage the state's wealth responsibly even if sales are made in order to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized family farms. There are a number of guarantee elements in the legislation to prevent speculation, buying land for investment, stockpiling land, and indeed to favour those who farm the land and want to make a living from it. For this reason, it is incomprehensible that the opposition benches are constantly screaming "doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo-doo. It is true that opposition statements on the subject clearly show that not only do they not know or do not want to understand the objectives of the programme, but the interpretation of the legislation is also a serious problem. Depending on political affiliation, they are alarmed by the fact that a narrow and politically well-defined clientele receives state land, or that large owners are placed in position, or that farmers with ties registered at a fictitious address are buying state land. The government has also incorporated legal and property policy guarantees into the system: only Hungarian farmers who have lived locally for three years can participate in the auction, they are currently around 100 thousand; legal persons, foreigners and non-local residents cannot bid. And let us not forget that according to the land traffic law in force, up to 300 hectares of land can be owned by a natural person, so those who have 250 hectares can expand their land by up to 50 hectares. It is also often charged that we now place the land in the possession of the winners of the previous land contest as the final step of a well-built concept. However, most of the current tenants will not be able to buy, because public land is rented in two-thirds to three quarters by social enterprises, but they cannot acquire land. In the case of individuals, the right of pre-emption for land use under the Land Traffic Act only exists if the farmer has been a legitimate user of the land for at least three years at the time of the sale, and most of the farmers took possession of the land in the programme for farmers in 2013 and 2014. Of the farmers who bought the land, 762 will now have the opportunity to apply for the land, which is just over 4 percent of the total area, and the price offered at the bid will also have to be paid to the current tenant. [[14.50]] The State shall be entitled to a right of repurchase for 20 years from the date of conclusion of the contract and shall be subject to a 20-year disposal and debit ban. The right of repurchase and the prohibition on disposal and debiting must also be recorded in the sales contract and entered in the ownership form for the benefit of the State. These safeguards rule out the possibility of buying land for investment purposes, or for large enterprises to obtain land through stooges. To do so, large owners in hundreds of settlements in the country would have to recruit farmers who are even inclined to do so and who have been living in the country for at least three years. In addition, they must be so confident that they will give them millions, tens of millions to bid, and for 20 years, the property would be owned by a total stranger, and there is absolutely no way of knowing how it will end up in the name of the actual customer. Is this really realistic, ladies and gentlemen? Dear House, We are convinced that the best interests of the nation are for the land to be owned by farmers and thus fortified small and medium-sized family farms that form the backbone of the countryside. However, opposition parties seem to have a different interest. The socialists, as they did during their governance, still represent the interests of speculators and large-scale owners and persist in their failed agricultural policy. Dear Socialist Members, Between 2002-2010, you had the opportunity to justify the correctness of your agricultural policy, but during your eight-year governance, you did nothing but destroy Hungarian agriculture with unfounded, unprofessional decisions and destroy the Hungarian countryside. The livestock has fallen dramatically, the proportion of small farms has decreased, agriculture has given fewer and fewer people a living. On the other hand, since Fidesz came to government, agricultural output and agricultural exports have been constantly rising and making records. The volume of gross added value increased by more than one-and-a-half times between 2010 and 2014 and the number of people employed in agriculture increased by nearly 10 percent. Investments have increased, livestock losses have stopped, and the number of animals has increased significantly. Through the new Land Traffic Act, the objective of land policy is to ensure that the share of small and medium-sized family farms is 80% and that the large estate is up to 20 percent. In 2010, farmers worked on 50 percent of the country's farmable area of about 5 million hectares. 45 per cent of the area was owned by large companies and the remaining 5 per cent was owned by other companies such as municipalities, state or cooperative. By 2014, this ratio changed for the benefit of farmers. The company's share decreased and thus a 12 per cent difference in the proportion of land use was created in favour of the small ones, compared to the previous 5 per cent. Dear Socialist Members, If anyone can be accused of distributing the state land to the clientship, it's you. And you have served the generation change by giving an annuity for the land so that no one could possibly carry on the economy. From your statements, it seems that even renationalization would not be far from you, at least you have considerable experience. You fellow Members, if I could, without any remorse, would play the Hungarian land fortune into the hands of social enterprises and foreigners. In this you can count on the Democratic Coalition, for which, by the way, European Hungary! Its programme "The Need for New Regulation to Allow the Land grabbing of Companies and Large Works." This shows very well how close the ideology of the two parties is to each other. The fact that Jobbik and LMP, who claim to be pro-small farmers, are also attacking the land grabbing of Hungarian farmers, the strengthening of small and family farms is simply inexplicable. Let them be honest, ladies and gentlemen, about the interests in which they make their views known. How could Jobbik, a nationalist, challenge the amendments to the legislation on land sale procedures before the Constitutional Court with the main reason that only Hungarian citizens can participate in them? You are supposed to be preparing for government, and I would consider the Saint Crown doctrine, which I have historically esteemed, but in many respects is outdated, to be the basis of the Hungarian Constitution. Stand up in front of farmers and say to their faces that they want to nationalise all domestic land on this principle. This is what this is all about, just as it is their main political opponent, the extreme one, XX. He did it in the middle of the century. As far as the LMP is concerned, Sallai R. Benedek, the party's agricultural politician, said that as a politician, he does not agree with the sale of land as a farmer. I think this is a very good description of LMP's policy. Dear House, It's not the state's job to farm. The task of the state is to create the conditions for people who want to work to thrive and succeed. The Hungarian land is in the best place with the local Hungarian farmers - there is no doubt about it. Anyone who says otherwise will go against the interests of the nation. We continue to fight for Hungarian farmers. The only goal we have in mind is to protect the interests of Hungarian farmers and the Hungarian agricultural land. Thank you for giving me the honor of your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-192	Thank you, Congressman Győrffy. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-10-26-193	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! You have to be calm after the solo in front of me. You like to argue with professionals, but not with minute people. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including György Balla: Then come down!]] I think what the Fidesz government is about to do is the biggest villain in the last 25 years. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And if they were honest, they wouldn't try to get Hungary to accept the same kind of communication as stealing a private pension fund, that they would protect private pension funds, but they would admit that they needed 400 billion forints of income next year, because that's what this is all about. That's what it's about, and it's not about who loves speculators and who protects big plants, it's about how there will be an election period, when the dictatorship will have to convince people that they are the best and don't choose anyone else. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) I think that people in the countryside will very soon find out how untrue this is; it will come out very soon because three years is still a long time, and in three years much can change. Among other things, while there is now a government resolution that is being discussed here, which states that it is a 20-year ban on disposal, this majority can amend the Fundamental Law in two weeks. So when a government decision is being amended, it is about when Mr Orbán wakes up - as I said in a conversation with my fellow Member - so that he is good, we will let him go now [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Like a private pension fund!]] This moratorium. And it's not true, because, for example, it doesn't apply to heirs, so they can sell the land the next day, even to foreigners. But now let's see how these allegations can be refuted and why. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Specialist!]] the state lands will continue to be under state control. The Minister and the Chamber President say that it affects 20 percent of state land, but does not add one thing: that this is about 95 percent of state ploughing property, because all others are unfit, protected by the Fundamental Law. Because the forest is protected - fortunately, because it would be the next one - and the nature reserves are protected, and there's nothing else, and that's what's really sold, but I also add that it's trashed. Once upon a time, 500,000 hectares of state land were granted for compensation in the '90s; then you have to see what happened in the village and what happened to that 500,000 hectares. A significant proportion of 500 000 hectares [[György Balla intervenes.]] not to farmers, but to intermediary speculators [[György Balla: You shouldn't have made him into a dope!]] By buying compensation tickets for various things, TVs, say, 5 percent, 10 percent, and obviously they were the first to participate in the bids. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And they acquired the ownership of this half a million acres. If anyone does not know, there are two million landowners in Hungary, and if we think very, very wide-ranging, there are about 200,000 registered producers who are professionally engaged in agricultural activities. All the others do not carry out this activity as landowners. [[15.00]] They say he can only be a farmer. Yes, only in the farming category, they excluded the part of the profession that knows this profession, but they allowed all those who could get it at any time with a goldfishing course and not only at their place of residence but at the premises of his company, Minister. Now I'm going to wonder what they're going to mean by this site, because it doesn't say; so let's say, a site on the shore of Lake Balaton is enough to buy the Lands of Enying. That's probably gonna come out at the auctions. Secondly, they are not telling the truth about the debit ban, because the debit ban can be lifted immediately if someone pays back the credit on it. [[Németh Szilárd István: Not true. Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Otherwise, it wouldn't even be a problem in itself. You have to read the decree. It says that if someone pays the loan... [[Németh Szilárd István: Banki volt...]] Congressman, you have so much to do, believe me that this regulation has been read not only by you, but also by you, so I suggest you read it, it says that the ban on loading can be lifted. Otherwise, if that is not the case, then say my fellow Members, who are here for some people who know about this profession; I will be curious what they will say. Yeah, a lot of people who know how to do it aren't here because they obviously don't give their names to this mess. The Minister also says here - and this is an open declaration of war, obviously there will be a reaction to this - that a new era is beginning, and he has practically declared the execution of social economies, small and medium-sized enterprises, not for the first time. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I didn't say that.]] You have said this once in a subcommittee meeting: if it were up to me, there would be no great estate in Hungary, Member, so I would like to say this on this point in the field-hegyes. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas intervenes.]] Then, of course, John Lazarus said otherwise that they would try to maintain a viable economy with the remaining areas in Mezőhegyes. It would be nice to discuss it with each other, because the two things are very uncoordinated. But this is a message to the people of Mezőhegyes, and I would like to say it from here, because there is a business that is being destroyed - and not just one, but a lot, which is the only one that has the biggest echo, because the settlement itself can also be destroyed - where it has 500 permanent employees of a public limited company and gives seasonal work to about a thousand more people. Technically, this whole town, this small town, it's doing it for a living. This was now kicked without further ado, with only one third of the winners living in the immediate surroundings of Mezőhegyes, all the others registered there and not in the profession. There are two hundred and sixty-six miles of legal lady who used to work at the Prime Minister's Office, members of the Parliament who have checked in to church, and I might add. So there is everything but a farmer, my fellow Members, because there, even farming is not required for public land leases. They also say that a person who has been a tenant for three years only has the right to pre-empt. All disputed land lease applications are three years, rather than three years. After that, they weren't as eager to get involved as the first ones, especially in Fejér County. The first county of Borsod, but it obviously doesn't concern it, because there are nature reserves there, for now they are not yet designated, although the Prime Minister said that he thinks that there is little of this 20 percent, so it follows that they will come up with something. It is likely that the forests will be easier to sell, the forestry companies will be very easy, because now the Kehi study will prove that they are unfit to carry out their activities, even though they would have a lot of work to do. The accusations that have been made here about who is on whose side, I would like to say that Mr. Minister should go to the places where such economies still operate, which he has now given the order to launch, or I do not know what he has given, probably on behalf of the Prime Minister. Of course, we won't all be in this one, obviously some of the sample farms that may even have 20,000 acres, and then fit into this one, but obviously their dog's kid doesn't have to do with the launch. And you're supposed to say that to people's eyes, because I don't think that in places where, say, two or three hundred people work for a business, and over 200,000 a month's wage level, they live by being maids. I'm thinking more like a maid who lives in a trailer and works for a liter of wine and food a day, say, for businesses that you're looking at as a model. I could show you hundreds, thousands of them, just go around the country, and you can see how the emerging new rich who now use the land on the border of the settlements as a single ruler, the poor, needy people, let alone not be announced, do anything. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas is leaving the Chamber.]] This is also typical of the Minister's interest in the opinion of the opposition, even though he said that this matter had already been decided, what do we do about it? I would add that your professionalism does not affect your activities, so from now on, I think it is understandable that you are going away from this debate. Who are we protecting? Here it has been said many times that they are large plants. It's not a big factory. We are only protecting those employees who are 100,000 more, or at least more than 100,000, to whom this government has just declared war, four hundred thousand people, I hope you will understand this message, and I also hope that you will try to deal with this impossible situation in some way. I would add that so far this sector, but not only this sector, the peasantry in general, could endure everyone when they had to distribute the estates, because in Torgyán he found out that he was providing only 300 hectares of support, and then he endured a lot of things, and now he has also endured the withdrawal of subsidies from the dairy sector, for example, on a land-based basis, which would need this support most. Because when people say how much land they farm, because of the percentage they use these areas, they do not say one thing: it is true that 45 percent of the larger farms do produce the land, but it is also important to know that dairy cows, which is clearly the peak of employment in agriculture, account for 90 percent of the population, are clearly more than 50 percent of the pig - it has never been so, but it is still so - even more than 50 percent of the poultry. They may be considered war enemies, of course, but I wouldn't. I would rather help the kind of integration that they had between them and the smaller producers until the Fidesz government came into power, because this squabble started when they started chasing illusions, they started making promises to the producers that they would solve their problems, and instead of sitting down with, say, the Hortobágy farmers or the Borsod farmers - more precisely, they sat down in Angyány, they kicked them out - and to agree with the companies how many areas they could use or use, because it is in everyone's interest to have normal rural cooperation, instead they did that they always gave the pasture to the other people they wanted with 40 percent points of face. This turned into the Kehi test that 50 ducks could get 60 acres of pasture. These should be dealt with, Congressman, these should be carefully studied, how it is possible, for example, that he is now traveling on Hortobágy, for example, about 50 grey cattle - I got pictures of him exactly yesterday - and they are not grazing, but dogs are chasing him around in the pasture to see how the pasture is exploited by the inspectors. This is not a profession, dear friends, dear fellow Members, this is the lowest profession. I can't tell you anything but the bottom of the line. The tenant of this area is, by the way, a man from Budapest, but there he is fictitiously logged in. I hope the authorities catch up with you, because the complaints have been made. But I don't see that there are checks like this. I don't see the big checks around Zirc. There's a picture of me standing in such weeds on a 40-acre pasture that Congressman knew who they had given it to, and it hasn't been taken from him since, and he wants to breed mangalicas instead of sheep. Congratulations on that. That's about how good the goldfish course is - I'd like to say - for someone to say things like that, because no more. That's about right. Besides, I would also like to know, honestly, how many Fidesz representatives or family members have obtained a farmer's license with such a course, let's say, in the last year, when the number of farmers increased from 36,000 to 106 thousand. Don't you think there's no such thing? Hungarian higher education and secondary education do not issue more than 10,000 people a year, even then I said a lot. How much has it grown? Almost 40 to 50 grand. This 50,000 is the speculator. They're gonna buy the land. We heard here from the beginning that they were protecting the land from the foreigner. This is what I like best, or else, this is crazy. Someone's gonna believe that. Let's think about this. The state has 400,000 acres of land. The state says it's gonna stay state, because I'm gonna help you expand your employment in the country, because I'm in charge, I'm in charge of the land, I'm telling you, whoever I rent it to, what to do with it. They tried it now, but they couldn't, because the buddies were stronger, so from now on, it wasn't about the tender, it was about what it became. What do they say now? That it doesn't belong to a foreigner. In 20 years' time, who's gonna tie their hands to the one who's buying the land so he won't sell them to a foreigner? But if the state says that I won't sell it, as Britain says, as Denmark says, the Netherlands says, they won't sell it because there's no way out of the national circle like this. There would be one more opportunity, on which we have tabled an amendment - I hope that you will support it - so that the municipalities can enter as buyers. Because what happens to the areas on the ground and how to make the most of it for rural development is what the municipalities know best, because they know what their own environment can be used for, and I would not be afraid of local authorities entering the land market and buying land in private land traffic, for example, for the purpose of operating intelligent public works and social cooperatives. [[15.10]] I'll be very curious, on Wednesday, the committee meeting will decide how you stand on this case. Because if this is also voted down, it is obvious that the intention is further strengthened here, the intention to become friends, and that, preferably within a year, there should be a minimum of 400 billion or a minimum of 300 billion revenue to the state. I'd be very protective of everyone. I think our responsibility here is to do everything in our power not to do that. Yeah, we've said what's in the government's resolution that the state can take these lands back any time in 20 years. Speculators are gonna take the land back, and we're gonna find out who the speculator is. A speculator who has no longer complied with the conditions of the land lease will be satisfied when no one will check it. And that doesn't mean nationalization, it's a simple business transaction. The state does need a market regulation instrument in the countryside, and if there's no other way to fix this thing that you've come up with now, the only way to do that is to buy back the land. We're gonna be ruthless in this, and I'm gonna tell you this, and I recommend it to everyone who wants to buy land as a speculator. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-26-194	Thank you very much, Congressman Haughty. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2015-10-26-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Fidesz Christian Democratic Party Alliance is clear and clear, the land belongs to those Hungarian farmers who cultivate it, be their property, because it gives them the dignity and responsibility of the producer's profession and gives them a predictable perspective, which is of particular importance in agriculture affected by many unplanned circumstances. The left, following the logic of the earth robbers and attic sweepers, would dream back into the world of the themes and state farms, while interesting and paradoxically putting the Hungarian soil into the hands of the foreign capitalists. However, the majority of Hungarian people, together with us, believe that the state does not need to carry out centrally managed agricultural activities, this has been tried by the country and did not work, but should be entrusted to those who know how to do so. The priority of our policy remains the relentless service of Hungarian interests and, in this spirit, the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are preferred to large owners. Accordingly, we have established the parcel sizes to be sold, and we have put them into law so that 80% of the land is acquired by Hungarian small farmers. Of course, one of the most important goals is to prevent foreign land grabbing, so by creating a legal environment we prevent the Hungarian land from falling into the hands of foreigners. It's a historical duty, so it's a matter of honor to us. Ladies and gentlemen, That we're on the right track is supported by statistics. According to KSH data, agricultural output has been increasing steadily since 2011 and reached another record in 2014. The volume of the indicator measuring the production of new value in agriculture has increased by more than one and a half times over four years. In addition to the increase in emissions from agriculture, it is also important to emphasise that the sector is making a living for more and more people. The number of people employed in agriculture increased to almost 190,000 in 2014, which was almost 17,000 higher than in 2010. At the same time, there is also a positive change in structure within agriculture. There is an increase in the number of viable small and medium-sized farms that provide livelihoods for farming families and their employees. According to KSH, their numbers are already over 165,000. In addition to these positive processes, it is particularly welcome that the animal husbandry situation has also been stabilised. The decade-long decline in livestock has stopped, and for most animal species there has also been an increase in livestock and production. Overall, agricultural exports and trade surplus have increased significantly in recent years, resulting in the role of the agricultural economy in the external trade processes of the national economy. Although a number of negative international political and market factors had a negative impact on external agricultural products in 2014, such as the Russian import ban, exports and surplus still reached a high level. It is also important to highlight the continued positive change in the structure of exports. The share of added value products in total agricultural exports continued to increase. In light of these considerations, there is a debate between us and the left in principle, and the essence of this is briefly and succinctly that the land owned by the state during nationalisations is held by the state or returned to the owners. Thus, the main question is whether land owned and managed by the State should remain state-owned or be sold. I believe that is what the substance of the debate is about. Ladies and gentlemen, In our opinion, it is more useful for the Hungarian economy or for the Hungarian society to put people who want to farm, who have the desire and expertise to cultivate the land than to collect the 10-12 billion rent. I am convinced as a country, as a cegledi, to meet many farmers who supported the ideas of Magos and the Chamber of Agriculture that small and medium-sized family farms are the 21st. They're still competitive in the first century. In the last hundred years, the main question was who owns or owns the means of production. I am convinced that if we think that left-wing parties, which today consider themselves heirs of the former Hungarian left, cannot stand on the side of the great estate, because they have fought for decades to bring the great estates to an end. The Christian Democrats continue the tradition of the Independent Small Farmers' Party, saying that in Hungary the land is the best place for Hungarian farmers. The land belongs to the man who does it again. Ladies and gentlemen, For more than a hundred years in Hungary, the most important questions in agriculture are how many people the land can support, how many families it can provide for a living, and whether the land can contribute to Hungary's growth and economic growth. According to the calculations, 22 percent of GDP is currently linked to agriculture in some form, including producers, processors, sellers, even large estates and ancient producers. Farmers want to buy more land, not tenants, but owners. This is well illustrated by the large number of land purchase requests and submissions received by the State in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be guarantee rules for the best hands of the earth. Only locally resident - everyone has said this, all pro-government, but must be repeated - only local Hungarian citizens and farmers can buy land in Hungary [[Zoltán Grimlock: The local goldfish lawyers!]] Now they're 103,000. So he's a legal person, a public limited liability company, a private limited liability company. You can't buy land. I am convinced that the leases will not be broken by the change of ownership, so that the lease can only be cancelled at this address. And pocket contracts are completely excluded, since only special documents can conclude a land-related agreement, so all other forms will be punished by the law, i.e. illegal. With the entry into force of the Land Traffic Act, the number of people who can buy land has been severely reduced. In the past, there were millions of people in Hungary who had the ability to acquire land, which now means 100,000 people in scale, so we can make sure that farmers will be able to buy land in a much healthier competitive environment, because those who do not want to cultivate it but only want to acquire it for speculation purposes cannot really compete in this competition. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we will not squander the state's land assets, unlike the statement made by our fellow Members in opposition benches. We advertised only arable land for sale, not forests and protected natural areas, and not all of the fields, but only about 20%. [[15.20]] I am convinced that the setting of conditions guarantees that the land will go to those who are Hungarians, farmers and will grow on it. No one can get more than 300 acres of land. If someone buys an area, they have to produce it, according to the law, they can't sell it and they can't burden it for 20 years. The most important thing about this transaction is that the State has the right to repurchase in any case. Ladies and gentlemen, For the Christian Democratic People's Party, this land programme is also a historical justice. To bring to fruition the noblest bourgeois farmers who turn with confidence and respect to the Hungarian farmers who cultivate the land and entrust them with the most precious treasure of the nation, the land. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-196	Thank you, Earth Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! For 1100 years, the soil has been the most basic national resource. It is incomprehensible and quite simply inexplicable why a government claiming to be a national betrayal of the domestic land for the many times in a row. The earth has important social and economic organizational public functions, which are the basic conditions of life in all civilizations. Compared to this, the government is happy to assist in identifying the Hungarian agricultural land with the capital goods produced by the EU. In addition, this absurd approach only applies to the lands of the later accession states, it was pronounced with them only, while the Western European countries carefully guard their land assets and the sovereignty over it. I have to say, unfortunately, this is not a coincidence, it seems that only the historical knowledge of the governing parties is incomplete, because political power within and outside our borders is aware that the earth is a power, domination, political factor. As you often quote, the one who owns the land is the one who owns the country. Although the countries of the EU centre have a land market, it is almost immeasurable, it is less than 1 percent, in which case foreign land ownership is minimal. This is because the family economy, as a dominant model, requires the preservation of the existing operating land, which in good times the farmer seeks to increase, but at most to the maximum extent permitted by the plant law. Land traffic is therefore typically leading to a generational shift within the family. The farmer's farm and land will be inherited by his child or possibly by another individual who will continue farming. And the requirement to keep the earth is an order of survival. Without land, there is no economy that sells the land, and it has to give up its entire lifestyle. The consequence is that it is no longer possible to buy land at gold prices to the west and north of us. It cannot be ignored that the issue of land is also a matter of national security. Guaranteeing food security is a constitutional obligation for all responsible states. What is happening here? Regardless of the amount and quality of land required, the greenfield investments are multiplied by mushrooms, and even the land will usually become a foreign investor in the form of rented real estate: industrial parks, various factories and examples. The voluntary devotion of our Earth to foreigners is an unparalleled colonial submission in international practice. In today's world political context, we can say that this is treason. However, today's unparalleled migration makes the earth's cause even more fundamental. It has to be said that the earth has become a decisive public function. It is directly subject to sovereignty. Due to the surges of migration into Europe, all EU Member States face the fact that their own survival requires the protection of the borders of the state and the territory of the state because of the immeasurable number of immigrants outside Europe. In the case of the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, we can see that the country's land belongs only to the State, and there are other examples where it is mostly private property. From the summer of 2010, Fidesz's government land programme promised a break with land policy serving global capital and expressed a radical turnaround in the national self-defense of the earth. Unfortunately, the facts do not point in this direction. Hundreds of practical examples now show that the Land Traffic Act continues to enforce capital requirements and to serve the large estate system. Where is the so-called People's Party land programme, represented by the name of József Ángyán, former Secretary of State? - which later became the government's land program. However, Jobbik was deeply in agreement with the principles set out at that time, and we have said this several times here, within the walls of the House. How did these principles sound then? We are doing everything we can to keep the land under national jurisdiction and in the hands of the farming families. Or: keeping management of natural resources in national competence, keeping the self-determination of natural goods as a key element of our national sovereignty. Or: property policy focuses on family individual farms and their associations. I ask, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister or Secretary of State, where we are today compared to this. Apparently, it was just a cheap trick, and apparently, we don't have to look at what they're saying in the matter of our motherland, but what they're doing. Even in the matter of the motherland, words are in direct conflict with actions. As early as 2010, the first step of the government in the field of land decided that the land ownership of the State could not be an unfit national property. As public property, we must preserve the need for land in the public interest, satisfying future generations, that would have been the task, but instead, the business wealth introduced by the Gyurcsány government has been the delivery of capital needs; this has become the basis for your land policy. The land programme included a commitment that the government would preserve the 2 million 178 thousand hectares of public land, which was violated, in fact, is currently being debated. The promises were, by the way, that this land should be increased in order for the state to be able to comment on what is happening in the Hungarian countryside. It is now clear to me that this was a deception. The young people of the country migrate to a mass of countries, our villages are empty, and their destruction is under way. Although we know from the Prime Minister that this is not really the result of a misguided policy, these young people are going abroad because of an adventure. Instead of an attitude such as this and this, fleeing from reality with ordinary cynicism, all the responsible political forces, even you, should think about exactly what it means that the state has a land or is selling it out. Unlike you, Jobbik is indeed the political force that counts with the nation, responsible for social needs, assessed the risks, and since I fear that you have not done the same, I am obliged to present the serious anomalies that Hungarian society will face in the short term; which not only give rise to the current kidnapping, but also create it by law. The waste of state land will eliminate strategic land assets, as the state could at any time, especially in crisis situations, maintain the security of population conservation. It also weakens the regulation of public authority in the land market. The possibility of public intervention will virtually cease, as the State as owner cannot be present on the land market, nor can it compensate for the capital dictatorship. The loss of state property eliminates continents of public interest. It provides farmers with farming and false promises, but when there is no more state land, there is no question of the demographic and social land programme, of helping young people and other farmers to self-sufficiency, and so much has been promised before. Without a public land base, rural strategy and the requirement to keep villages will be broken down. The population, the reduction of migration and the eradication of unemployment are all impossible in the Hungarian countryside. If land policy were not to serve the capital company, it would not help the rule of the large system by selling out state assets, but, let's say, make it a non-trafficking treasury property, as Jobbik initiated, the state land could finally be used for public use. It is not exaggeration, the dying Hungarian countryside would be resurrected. It is also an important social loss, but it is not an asset advantage, because the land is expected to increase by 10-15 times, both because of a drastic rise in food prices and a change in the current low land prices compared to Western Europe. [[15.30]] This also reflects the increase in speculative capital through public assets. Finally, we cannot go without saying that the government's decision to privatise the state land is, in our opinion, accompanied by abandonment of the rule of law and serious violations. Among other things, this dictatorship disregards the provisions of Articles P and 38 of the Fundamental Law, which make it the duty of the State to preserve state land ownership for future generations. However, for my part, I think that neither the Minister nor the Regent Government, nor you, Members, have been so irresponsible that the disadvantages that have been identified so far, which have also seriously affected society, have not been identified. Unfortunately, the situation is even worse. In your case, the sale of the motherland is not gross negligence, but explicit willfulness. We must say that, in your eyes, certain private interests are more important than the interests of society as a whole, of the entire community. We must therefore also ask the question of who will benefit from the state's wealth of land that has been deprived of society. [[György Balla: They are called farmers.]] The scandals around public land leases have already proved in practice that farmers will not be the government, that the government will not serve the enrichment of local settlements, but will increase the properties of its own clients, including large business owners of the most powerful capital companies. [[Márius Révész intervenes. Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties.]] The planned privatisation rules serve the exclusive acquisition of land by today's tenants, and these include mainly large-scale agricultural companies. Typically, capital companies, today's tenants, will participate in these bids, since their land use title is still over 90% land use lease. The entire privatisation rules favour tenants over outside buyers, which would otherwise be appropriate if we were living in a normal country, if it were not from the residents of the premises that the outsiders had mostly taken away the land surrounding their own settlement. Minister Fazekas told the public a few days ago that these lands must now be sold quickly so as not to belong to foreigners. On the other hand, when the state land is sold, it is privately owned, it is only a matter of time before it can be taken over by foreigners, while I stress that as long as it is owned by the Hungarian state, no one can persuade the Hungarian state to get rid of this land. And if you are afraid that a government worse than you will arrive at some point and sell the Hungarian land on even worse terms, then I offer you the help of Jobbik: let us create a two-thirds law that Jobbik can support and make inalienable national wealth. From now on, there is no need to fear that a government worse than you will arrive in Hungary. The distribution of 380,000 hectares of ploughing, pasture, orchards and ponds for privatization also project quite a lot. We estimate about 103 thousand farmers who can buy these lands, but it would be worth examining their distribution. 52,000 parts of the land are distributed in such a way that 41,000 of them are only a few hectares, which have been scattered, the land for life and other programs into the management of the National Land Fund Manager. The remaining 11 thousand parts of the land are two thirds of the land that can be purchased, so they make up the greasy bites. Most of these are high - quality and extensive lands. This is the land where the acquisition of property is the whole point of the operation. Because this will result in the transfer of current large-scale tenants to land. So what I can imagine is that the aforementioned piece of diribe land will also be available to local family farmers, but it can be enveloped that this two-thirds fat wall will certainly end up with those who also hit the land lease applications: your good acquaintances. The fraudulent deception of public opinion is also the government's argument that denies the large-scale effects of land sales by allowing a person to buy up to 300 hectares. I'm asking you, why would that even prevent the size of the major plant from growing? However, acquisition is personal. In the Land Traffic Act, no requirement was introduced for a combination between the family, the company and the municipality. We demanded this at the time, as your former Secretary of State, József Ángyán, did at the time. In fact, giant companies move as many people as they want from their circles. For the purchase of 300 hectares, as is possible for a private individual, the bid will show up with sufficient capital, or, in the case of a family of four, that is almost 1,200 hectares. [[Dr. István Nagy: Then you park it for 20 years.]] Therefore, the rapidly increasing concentration of large plants' holdings cannot be refuted. If you only look at the fact that the seven largest capital companies received a Community grant of HUF 16 billion in 2011, this figure has already increased to HUF 24 billion in 2014. The amount of aid thus increased considerably over three years, from 64 thousand hectares to 112 thousand hectares. During the same period, the average holding of the cooperations increased from 9 thousand hectares to 16 thousand hectares, which, by the way, exceeds the size of the noble estates prior to 1945. Dear Parliament, For all these reasons, Jobbik demands that the government stop [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the decision to sell state land. This situation may result in the total destruction of national wealth, and Jobbik demands that state land be declared unfit for traffic. To do this, everything (The President, by jogging the bell, indicates the expiry of the time frame. ) a change of legislation has been tabled. I ask you to support these, and to withdraw this outrage. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-198	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the mayor of the political group.
u2015-10-26-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What we need to talk about is obviously the many lies that Minister Sándor Fazekas has told, and the completely ridiculous, easily collapsing argument that he stands for this land robbery. But I don't like the word "dog." I don't want to be a butcher. I don't want to talk about who gets the land. Let's talk about what the point of selling it is to sell it. Let's talk about what the history of Hungary has been for the past 25 years! Let's talk about the fact that 10 percent of the state's assets at the time of the change of regime were left in the hands of the state. And it's just that for the last 25 years, whoever was in power was stealing what he understood, bringing what he knew home. If he couldn't get her home, he'd sell it and use the money. You know this, and the entire Hungarian public knows that the process of privatisation, which has been experienced by Hungarian society over the past 25 years, has been a drain of public wealth from those in power. And there were some that were on some level holy, protected, and the soil was one of them, which no one dared touch, because no one had thick enough skin on their face to do. That's why the problem is we're out of the chamber. The treasury's empty, there's nothing to bring home, there's nothing to sell, to plug it in, and to cosmetics the budget. Now you have to touch what the same government hasn't touched in two entire government cycles. It is also necessary to touch what seemed sacred and inviolable during the first Orbán Cabinet between.98 and 2002. You have to touch what was said between 2010-14 that the best system is the rental system and give it to you on rent, because the rental system is very good. You have to touch everything that's left, and the problem is that this is a matter of state property, and we have to talk about this theft for the last 25 years, about what privatisation means. I do not doubt that good Hungarian people will be among those who fall into the agricultural land, because I do not care whether Fidesz-sympathizer, LMP-sympathizer or MSZP-sympathizer, if you build a local community, if you create a local job, whatever. I don't want to talk about who gets the land. I want to know if it's allowed to be sold. Is it free to release the natural resources from my hands that I could influence at any time in the future rural population conservation, which would enable me to set conditions. After 20 years of bad farming, you started on a good road. They said the application system could be good. I do not agree with your application system, and I do not think it is correct, but the tool itself is to prefer those who create rural jobs and create a value-creating economy by means of a tender, which is a good system. [[15.40]] It is a good system to expect, as owner, to give the land to the person who undertakes to create a job per 30 ha or 50 ha. Who undertakes to provide healthy food to the capital and will provide a better quality food from health conservation throughout the countryside. The system itself is good and must be supported. The practice wasn't good, obviously that's why we criticized it and criticized it to make it better. Because the goal is not to make political capital out of it, but as an opposition, I feel it is my job to make governance better, because I can help you make better decisions and manage state wealth more responsibly. When I speak against this, I don't want to talk about just agricultural land. I don't want to talk about what's going on with this land, and I don't even want to talk about what's going on with these farmers, because it's not just a matter of land and farmers, it's a matter of the countryside. And it is not just a matter of the countryside, but since it is the property of more than ten million people, it is the case of all Hungarians. This is our common fortune, our common heritage. There are many of you sitting here in the pro-government benches, who will not benefit from this business, will not benefit from land to you, or from the fact that what comes in money and money received, will be able to take part in the beating of it. And yet they stand up for it, yet they support it, and they say words you don't understand. Minister Sándor Fazekas also said that Fidesz's lead speaker was the small farmer's principles, the small farmer's traditions. Well, please, why is it that the person who is anointed to represent the Hungarian small farmers in the Hungarian Kisgazda Civic Association in an alliance with you has claimed in this whole case as the opposition? Isn't it possible that the farmer represents these values? What makes you think he's not here? You don't want to go against your own government? [[Dr. István Nagy:...will speak!]] So, obviously, the question arises of who represents small farmers' values. He says Mr Balázs Győrffy - that's a good sound, I've heard from the government several times - that it's about the lands that the Communists nationalized and took away from the people. Please, it's not like that. You have recorded in the Fundamental Law that the compensation has been completed. I did not agree with this, but you put it in the Fundamental Law and claimed that all Hungarian compensation had been completed and that everyone had been compensated. This land is not what was taken and nationalized. [[Balázs Győrffy: This is not compensation!]] This land, which belonged to the king, belonged to the church, and somehow the state gained it, because bravely I ask, a multitude of people who studied here sit in history, tell me, in Hungarian history, a time when the crown or the state did not have any real property when they got rid of the land. Say one of those in Hungarian history [[Dr. Csaba Gyure: Nineteen thousand nineteen, Béla Kun!]] When the Crown didn't want to interfere with its lands in rural employment! And obviously, if you'll say that, I'll think about it, but as long as I see that the state has always wanted to interfere in preserving jobs in rural areas, I can't help but object to the process that you have started with this field privatisation. Obviously, the idea of sending these lands to farmers is often said, for obviously the question of who is the farmer is also raised. Do you think it's the farmer who's been doing a goldfish farm course in two weeks? My proud fellow Member has spoken about this for a long time. There's been a five-fold increase in demand. Between 2012-13-14, it continued to grow, it appears from simple statistics that there are those who are preparing for this, and they think that they will be farmers with a goldfish farmer. Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs replied to an immediate question today that I need a $300 million budget from the credit line because anyone who doesn't have any can buy the 300 hectares, which is the maximum possession under the Land Traffic Act. You think it's a farmer who doesn't own a hectare of land? [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: And how did you begin?]] The guy who took a goldfish course and earned a license to get it? So obviously, these questions arise as to who you think you are a farmer. And obviously, there is no way around not remembering the Magos in two words, which, in my opinion, betrayed all the principles that have been set up so far, I think that he has deceived and robbed the Hungarian countryside, and is going into this charade because of virtually a few narrow economic interests, in which I will say, without a doubt, once again, that there will be good Hungarian farmers who will get to the ground. However, it is not in the interest of the state and society as a whole to circumvent this land. And while I'm at it, let me respond in a few ways to the pro-government speeches, because obviously, what I'm talking about is that the whole argument system is collapsing as a house of cards, that's clear. Minister Sándor Fazekas says you won't have to pay rent. Please, why is it that Agria, the Young Masters Association, says that the rental system is better because it's more predictable and safer? And why is it that if you say you don't have to pay rent, that's good, but if you have to pay repayments, that's even better? So what makes it different? You are now in debt to Hungarian farmers, and we know that at least 150 billion, but perhaps more, because Bitay Márton Örs also said that the market banks will also participate in the financing. So, what's safe is that they're gonna put up a 150 billion credit line with farmers? It's not like that. They say - I don't even want to respond to that anymore, it's so ridiculous - that they protect the Hungarian land from foreigners. Please, in Hungary - you are aware, I think, that people who know this are sitting here - approximately 20 times the number of people who own land, like those who actually produce. Right now, someone's trying to sell a land, and they're gonna hit it there, because there's a candidate for it, because there's a demand for the land, that's what you're saying. But if the state shows up at 380,000 acres to sell this, then the primary land market that is created may not be able to buy it by the same farmers. You are now opening the room for this land market to open up to citizens in the Member States. And based on the land traffic, I'm not talking about foreigners in the Member State, because that's how it's gonna open up. This will open up the possibility that, in 20 years' time - or no 20 years, because obviously, if there is an estate, the ban on disposal will be lifted - it will be possible to sell this land sooner. So Sándor Fazekas claims to be untrue. The same is true when he says that he will strengthen Hungarian farmers, while he is reprimanding them and indebting them. He says he's giving farmers the same conditions. Please, that's another lie. What are the same conditions? In the beginning of the credit scheme, ten percent self-reliance is needed for those who have been tenants, who have been placed in the position of you in the last three years, and 20 percent self-strengthened - twice as much - for those who are not tenants. Here, please, it's worth buying land for two people: the tenant - so you've put him in a position for the last three years - or you don't want to work, who really is a speculator, because it doesn't matter to him that he doesn't own the land for 20 years. These two are worth it to. And when they say the same conditions: that would be the same condition for a bid? For the bid, you say it's fair. Of course, you can say that it's fair to be capitalized. But the bidding is always taken by the person who has the most money. Bidding's about that. And who's even gonna be able to take part in the bidding? After 10 percent of the land has to be paid, how many small farmers, medium-sized farmers, now farming on 30 hectares, 40 people, will be able to place it on a ten-hat land or two or three? Those of you who are strong in capital, who you are not supposed to put in a position, it is not a problem for those of you to sign in with a bid on every place in an administrative area. It's not a problem, because I have the capital for it. But this ten percent participation to participate in the bid, a lot of people won't be able to pay it! And let's look at the proportions. You say that there are 103,000 farmers, let's see how many farmers can participate in the bids. 'Cause the problem is, there's no such thing as the same conditions. It's just that whoever has all the money will have access to all of this. The Minister is talking about the possibility of public auction and price advantage. A public auction can obviously be held, but if it always allows for the stronger, then obviously it cannot help the small and medium-sized holders you think want to put in position. The Minister says that these areas, estates, are three hectarists and ten hectarists, but at the same time he does not say that the credit line, after 300 million per person, is so invented because it is possible to buy 30 ten hectars. And whoever has the money and can pay off 10 percent of all the bids can do that. It's not like that. Whether it is a 300-acre estate or 30-acre property, the property is the same, and in the Hungarian mosaicd property structure, it is not a problem that one is in the border and the other is in the border. Obviously, Hungarian society is less interested in this, but I am obviously particularly concerned by the fact that the minister responsible for nature conservation does not have a faint violet sense of what constitutes a protected area and what does not, and whether Natura 2000 is a protected area or not. That's what he said, he literally said, that Natura 2000 sites in national park property management have a higher level of protection than those at NFA. It's not like that. The government decree, which deals with Natura 2000 sites, does not distinguish them from the LIII of the year LIII. Law No. 4 § (g) specifies what the protected area is in Hungary, and these are protected areas. But I don't want to talk about it either, because I don't want to argue with you about whether Natura 2000 stays or not, but about whether we give or not, and I'm obviously voting for the latter. My fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, begins with the usual government demagoguery, so that the land belongs to the man who is doing it. Please, 25,000 acres of Csányi, 25,000 acres of Simicska. The one who works for him? Now they're farming this land. Whoever buys it from them won't be able to do it because they're gonna be here for 36 years. It's like this demagogic talk about having the man who's going to do it, but it's really about these lands being tied down for 20 years, and after they're going to buy it by people who can't start farming it at that moment, they won't know what to do with it. So don't always have someone who does it, be in cases where it's job-creating and good, and not in cases where it's speculative. "The villages are depopulated," said my colleague Balázs Győrffy, and I am absolutely right about this, and that is why it is a problem that you think that the path you are on is right. [[15.50]] I have been trying to tell Prime Minister recently, in an immediate question, that between 2000 and 2010, economies with employment below five people, i.e., small family farms, have fallen by 40%. This happened between 2000 and 2010. Then what happened for the next three years? Another 15 percent are missing. This means that in three years you have accelerated the disappearance of farms under five. You can bring other statistics, but it's simply a fact. The beneficiary medium you're talking about, which you want to put in place, is running out. That's what everything shows. Obviously, it is possible to deny it and to stop it, and to play with the numbers, how many employees have appeared, but those who can stay in small villages and want to live as farmers, not employees, who are supposed to be important to you, have been in the worst situation in the past. Obviously, we could talk a long time longer, and I would like to respond to a lot of things that have been said, but I wanted to make it clear and clear that I do not want to discuss whether the land is going to be, or not, or whether this is going to be, what kind of process - what they call it in public life - or not, I would like to talk about how you think about the state. Does the state have a job in employment, or can it let it out of its hands? Is it important that what we have inherited is preserved and increased, or can we live up to it? The governments of the last 25 years have, with many, many privatisations, played away the Hungarian wealth that is left for us, while public debt has increased in proportion to GDP. It is obvious that the question arises that a right-wing government calling itself national, which has conservative values, what it thinks of the state and the property of the state. I would like at least part of the debate to be about this, because, in my opinion, most of the value that you say very, very often is contrary to this step, and it violates the values that you have taken up and placed on your flag. As an opposition politician, I obviously don't need to be easily identified with your values, but I do respect a number of the values you represent. But with the values that I respect and you represent, this effort is contrary. That is why I would like today to rethink their fate and make their government understand better. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As the first independent congressman to apply is not in the courtroom, so we move on. I do not see a two-minute speech, so the individual Members will take part in the speeches, in accordance with the preliminary notification of the political groups in writing. First, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, representative of Fidesz, President of the Commission.
u2015-10-26-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For some reason, Sallai R. Benedek believes that Fidesz's values, civil values, are contrary to our view that we are putting the land currently owned by the state in the best place, in the hands of farmers. Since 1995-96, there has been an ongoing debate on what is the right method of farming in this area. Some of us are just here in Parliament, who have already started this debate, and let us be honest when between 1998 and 2002, when the civil right was on the government, the opposition at the time, the left in the opposition, did not like the decision of the government at the time to use state land, and when between 2002 and 2010 the left was on the government, together with the SZDSZ, we expressed a very serious criticism that in our view the way in which state land is treated is wrong. And why is that? Because, as many have explained here, the state has never managed it, or, more specifically, when it tried to farm through public companies and appointed government officials, it usually ended badly. This is shown by the various checks. Therefore, to a decisive extent, especially in the case of agricultural land, the lease was the only way the State used these areas. When the government re-elected the lease after 2010, the three opposition parties, the enlarged left, the right-wing national radical party, and the LMP - which I find difficult to define with style marks, whether they are a green couple or not a green couple - are their business; a new formation, rather a liberal formation - took the government's leasing policy under fire in their own way. We could say that since 1994-95, since it was even clear that the state had land in its possession after the redemptions had expired, there has not been a situation where someone from the opposition side has not criticized what the current government is doing to that soil. After that, the government decided to put an end to the blissful debate that has been going on in Parliament for 14-15 years because it thinks it claims - and I agree with that, and as much as you think this text is demagogic, as we have heard from one of the speakers - that the soil is in the best place, after all, with the Hungarian farmer. I would like to emphasise the Hungarian farmer here, because although this has not been discussed in the debate, and I would not like to open a very wide door to this debate, but we know here, in the House, that the European Union has made excuses for certain sections of the earth traffic law. Two stages of this are very painful for us, and we will therefore defend ourselves from this criticism indefinitely. One is why farmers are the only ones who can buy land after the law comes into effect. Why only farmers? Yes, the EU believes that it is possible to open the purchase of land for all classic operators. The other excuse sounds like why only private individuals can buy land in Hungary. Why not social enterprises? [[Who said that, Sanyi?]] As DK has already demanded in its 2014 programme, we open the purchase of land to social enterprises, with whom MSZP, led by Zoltán Gőgös, who is now loud, started on a platform in 2014. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is our defense, but it cannot last indefinitely, so it is a very big question of how this debate will end. In our opinion, the best situation is that in the event of an unexpected turn of events, it is better to prevent trouble, and the soil is in the best place, after all, with the Hungarian farmer. Just now, there were loud words, like the Holy Crown, and then every century it was social and social and public property, but we think that more than the private owner, no one can fight for their own property. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is what we saw in the 1800s and 1900s, and unfortunately also during communism, when it was extremely...
u2015-10-26-202	Congressman, if you'll excuse me. Anyone who wants to argue can continue in the hallway, but let's not disturb the speaker, and let's not disturb anyone who wants to listen. Thank you very much. Go on.
u2015-10-26-203	So what we saw was that in the 1950s, the communists took away the land from individuals, which they returned a few years before, in the spirit of finally having a Hungarian peasant society. We claim that no one can fight for land more than the Hungarian farmer to keep it in Hungarian hands, whatever the EU's decision may be. It was very interesting for me to listen to the idea of Zoltán Gőgös, who, by the way, spoke the least about today's topic, about their opinion on the private handing of state fields into the hands of Hungarian farmers, but he opened up all other topics. This is exciting, because the problem was not only that he was full of slips and sometimes physical errors, but, in my opinion, his performance was unfortunately patronizing and pompous. To classify the Fidesz MEPs as minute people, 70-80 percent of whom came from individual districts, and to classify Fidesz MEPs without understanding what kind of legislation they have written, and it would be better to read it again - quote Zoltán Gőgös from an insulting remark to me - I think it is not elegant. It's not elegant! [[16.00]] My fellow Member, who was also a State Secretary, so he held a position where he had a serious social responsibility, yet, in addition to his condescending and pompous statements, he did such a thing that in 2009, with the word he used, he was a buddy, only in this case was the MSZP group, they broke down the remaining lease contracts and quickly retiring them for 10-15 and 20 years. That's because they saw from the polls that the MSZP was failing. Anyone who does this as Secretary of State and then comes here for us and starts criticizing on a moral basis what right we have to believe that the best place for agricultural land is the Hungarian farmers, in my opinion it is immoral, morally wrong. But let's get to it, in my opinion, a physical error, a slip, perhaps a lie. This is even more painful, I think, because the outsiders who don't understand this question believe that Zoltán Grimlock is right. You're wrong. He claims that the government needs 400 billion forints to fill some holes. But let me get this straight. We have an economic achievement that your government can only dream of because, not with a negative 8 percent decline in GDP, we will hand the government over to someone once, but with a steady increase in GDP. The budget deficit is 2.5 percent, not 9 and 10 percent, as you had it! If we're gonna open this up. Unemployment is not 13 per cent, but only 7 per cent, to mention only a few figures from the false accusations made by my fellow Member, Mr Secretary of State. He says that this government sells 95 percent of the state land to private owners. Let me get this straight. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The plow.]] These state fields are confined to fields. It's okay. It is still possible to lead students up and down to the sale of 95 percent of the fields. What's the area? 350-380,000 acres. Congressman, are you yelling at me right now, how much is the total amount of the Hungarian field? 4.5 to 5 million acres. I would say 5-7 percent of all Hungarian land, including arable land. Can you hear them? We're arguing about five to seven percent of what the government says is the best place for private owners. We're arguing about five to seven percent. My fellow Member claims that the vast majority of the land leased by Fidesz is already over three years, so the tenants have a pre-emptive right. Unfortunately, to me, the very painful statements from tenants are the same: the three years have not passed, and they are still ordinary customers. They're right. The date before December 2012 has to be set for the three years, because now it will be November and December 2015, when the auctions start. What was the area, do you know that, my fellow Member? He knows, of course, the fraction. Only 10 percent were then managed to sell the then published land to the farmers under the program based on the first leases and data. Thus, the vast majority of the land leased by Fidesz after 12 does not reach the three-year lease period. So the owners there, if it hurts someone or not, are within three years, so they don't have any pre-emptive rights. And what was the most absurd statement from my fellow Member, Haughty, says that from one moment to the next, the number of registered farmers has increased from 36,000 to 100,000. But my fellow Member. If you at least knew this process, otherwise he knows exactly how it works: why did this happen? That's because when farmers had to get the farmer's qualification, how did that happen? The district land office had to go in, and there was a data sheet to fill out what the title was for him to now initiate the acquisition of the farm qualification. There was such dumping towards the land offices that they could not do so at first, and then the order was constantly cleared. Farmers understood that in order to buy land later on, they must obtain a farm qualification. Therefore, they continued to apply for them. What happened? The land office finally caught up with you and began to issue an application that was correct and evaluated. And thank God we're at 102,000. But not because fidesz speculators have applied with a gold-cage hosting certificate, but because that 160,000 farmers who also claimed support have started constantly asking for certification that he is now a farmer and verify this, please, the state for him. This process continues today. I am going to say a terrible thing to my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös, let alone 100, but we are waiting for another 100 farmers, perhaps 200,000, who we know are farmers, but have not yet requested a certificate from the state administration, in this case the Land Administration. So we're still waiting for more candidates. And believe that that number of qualified farmers has increased from 36,000 to 100,000, not Fidesz oligarchs, not speculators, as he said in his speech, but I claim that they are Hungarian farmers. The same way we perceive it when we visit the NFA website. What happened? On 15 October, the first substantial information about the sale of land below 3 hectares and then over 3 hectares was published. On 16-17-18 the website had 70,000 visitors per hour. Do you understand, Congressman Haughty? 70,000 an hour. On October 16, there were 140,000 visitors to the NFA website in connection with land sales over an hour. Now, this is where the Chamber of Agriculture and Magos' request is confirmed that farmers are, after all, trying to get to the ground. Don't tell me that 140,000 visitors per hour are all speculators. They couldn't make that much of a stinking life, no matter how much they glued these markers to us. Thank God, trusting all of you, these farmers, who have understood that this is going to happen now, and may have to think for 5-10-15-20 years in advance in order to establish, ensure for themselves and perhaps for their children, I refer here to the idea of Sallai R. Benedict, the idea of being a farmer for their children and offspring. Everything can be set in an extremely evil way. I feel like a lot of people have tried to do that. I was trying to show that behind the evil numbers that were reflected in this way, there's an ordinary life, a real content that doesn't justify your idea. We are aware of that, of course, because the three governments of the MSZP have demonstrated how they think about state land, we have heard this here; Italian, Austrian, Dutch-owned interests are still using a significant part of the Hungarian state land, which we ended in 2010. These were issued to these foreign owners by the Horn and then by the Gyurcsány government. We said this was over, and we stopped it. Of course, you don't like that. We can clearly see that, unfortunately, our motto is that, whenever possible, foreign interests were served hard. We do not do this, however much they feel that it is evil that we want to give it to Hungarian farmers. We claim that this is the right thing to do. Unfortunately, or thank God, I don't know, society will have to analyze this one day, Jobbik and LMP don't have that kind of evidence yet, because they weren't on the government. We were both opposed by the MSZ and Fidesz. Don't get me wrong, we know exactly what freedom of thought is if I express myself gently, which can be seen from the opposition side. There's nothing to say, there's no responsibility behind it. That was the idea that I believe was the idea of both keynote speakers. Sentences that may at first sound seem to the listener not to speak such foolishness can be said to the ears. But if we could ever ask him back here in the keynote speech system, but we can't, that's what the keynote speech is about, then we could immediately prove the content behind the ideas that sound good, because sometimes it's silly, sometimes impossible, sometimes it's not our intention to achieve it. [[16.10]] We're in an EU environment, we've had this debate a long time ago, the commitment path with which we entered the European Union's system with agricultural land, a market economy, and Jobbik wants to ignore it, and he feels that he can ride through Europe like a Kurt, nothing matters. Unfortunately, that's not true. You will only be able to prove that once you are able to do so after the 20-year-old expiry of these auctions, and you will find out what you are doing as governor. That's probably the case with LMP, too. Of course, we understand the theoretical concern you're doing, but it has nothing to do with real content. The system of marginal conditions, as described here by the Minister and the lead speaker of both Fidesz and KDNP, perfectly ensures that agricultural land is delivered to Hungarian farmers in an open and controlled manner. But I would venture to suggest that whoever has doubts... I see that there is doubt, because a proposal has been submitted to the Committee on Agriculture, or Parliament, that a monitoring committee should be set up to supervise the auctions that are now under way. I do not agree with this myself, but we will, of course, discuss in the committee what the point of this would be, but who has such concerns that something will not be right here, despite these very open and clear conditions, I would very much ask that you go to the first auction on 16 November and go to the second auction on 23 November. If you really do notice irregularities, then you should be the first to speak to us, the Minister, the Secretary of State, or, if you feel that you are speaking to public authorities, and then we should discuss whether it is really a problem for farmers to land, as you have tried to explain in your speeches, we do not agree with that. At the moment, we are convinced that our programme is right, and I feel that farmers are also in favour of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-204	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind my fellow Members that, according to the house rules, the representative of the government has the opportunity to make an extraordinary speech, obviously at the expense of the group and in the meantime, not just for two minutes. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Now you're gonna fix it!]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-10-26-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just want to briefly put two things in order quickly so that the debate does not go sideways. One of the things that Congressman Sallai would like to share with us from the Act on the Protection of Nature is very important, Congressman, is that we should at least quote precisely from laws. You say that the law does not distinguish between protected natural areas and Natura 2000, if at least I have been paying close attention to your claim. Yes, you do, Mr. Congressman. Article 4 You have elegantly combined the section, but there are several points to it. I would like to point (g) and (h) to your attention. Point (g) is the protected natural area and point (h) is Natura 2000. He's making a difference. I would also like to recall our debate when you are from the National Fund of Earth Act 18. He mentioned in his speech to Parliament that it was not a sale, and he went through pass a) elegantly and started with b). (b) Indeed, it is said to be a public tender, but (a) it is said to be a public tender or auction sale. This is a law in force since 2010. I am also obliged to put it right with regard to Mr Haughty's speech, and to be more precise, he himself acknowledged that it is no longer certain how it is now in the legislation. I'll help you see how you're doing in the law. Rule 29 of the Government Decree. §2 of the Act states that the 20-year prohibition on disposal and debit applies not only to those areas that are purchased from a financial loan or loan. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I didn't say that!]] but it applies to all areas. So what you said to your lead speaker is that you're going to beg the credit quickly, and then you're going to get rid of the disposal and debit ban. [[Zoltán Pride: That's not what I said!]] I would like to make it clear that I may have misunderstood, but this is a debate that gives us an opportunity not to happen in anyone. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the heirs?]] dispute or misunderstanding, so no, all land is subject to a disposal and debit ban for 20 years. [[What about the heir?]] Not with the heir who's a legitimate heir, of course. [[Proud Zoltán: Then take back the state!]] The owner of the land - he says, Congressman, that this is the problem, I really think that God should keep you safe for anyone to die - in a legal succession case, I think it is a fair situation to say that if this case comes up, then, of course, you can keep the legal heir, more precisely: declare the legal heir that you want to retain this property or give it back to the State. It's not a will's inheritance, it's just, and it's only the order of legal succession. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker is Gábor István Harangozó, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Public Opinion, This debate has so far been very, very devastating to me, even compared to the performance and insolence you have allowed in recent years. Do you know what kind of debate we're having today? You slylyly, bypassing Parliament, have made a government decision to sell the Hungarian land, especially to your friends. [[Intercoms from Fidesz, among them: Come on!]] It is more important to pay for the clientship than what will happen to the Hungarian countryside, and they were not so much vertebrate as to bring it to Parliament. This debate is here today because the opposition initiated this debate day. After that, I would have expected you to be the minister or you. [[György Balla: We're in Parliament.]] then they will bring some serious arguments to Parliament as to why they had to decide overnight that the Hungarian land would be sold, the state lands would be sold, and why it had to be so suddenly and why the whole process had to be played in a month or a half. If I don't hear any arguments about this, then I can't conclude that these lands were promised to someone else, and I need to make a quick break for it before anyone else wakes up, and maybe they'll check in that they're willing to bid, too. Because all the arguments that have been made, as my fellow Member, Mr Benedek, have said about it, fall down as a house of cards as we begin to examine what you are talking about here. What are you talking about? To keep the Hungarian land out of the hands of foreigners. As my fellow Members have already said, indeed, if the land remains state-owned, it will not be in the hands of foreigners, because the state cannot be obliged to sell this land. But what can the state do with it? Let's talk a little bit about why we should keep these lands in public hands. Because what is really important is that before such a decision is made, not in hindsight, when it is already decided, as we have heard here, what this debate is for, because it has all been decided, and we are discussing it even unnecessarily; but before such a decision is made, we should discuss why it should remain in the hands of the state or why it should be sold. In my opinion, the reason why these lands need to remain in government control is because if we want to change what is in the countryside today, that lack of prospects, then the best way to do this is to have the land in public hands. I'm about to take this down. In Hungary, there was a structure, a faulty compensation, which took place by destroying a functioning structure without figuring out what to do for it. The task was simply given to the municipalities to operate the Hungarian countryside, to run the villages, but they do not have any revenue. And the land has been transferred to the property of some large farmers or to the use of some large farmers, who are basically producing highly mechanized, industrial-like crops in these lands, most of them, and are making a very large profit, and they thank them very much, live well, and even receive the EU area support, while the people in the villages have no livelihoods, no jobs. I guess that's what we should be working on to find a way to change that. Come on. Does it make any difference that you will now give this area to a few hundred farmers forever, so that they can continue this activity without any restrictions? [[16.20]] No, honourable Members, it does not help that, but rather, on the contrary, they give up the opportunity to intervene in this in substance. Because if these lands remain state-owned, then the state can define the tenants with a normal rental system, who must be decent Hungarian family farmers, and I agree with what they should do in the area, how many people should be employed there, what activity should be carried out. [[In the notary seat Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced by István Ikotity.]] There was nothing wrong with this part of the rental system. The problem, my fellow Members, was that with the rental system, you had already written out this rental system to put the clientship in a favourable position, as not I, but the prosecution has described, their rental system not only gives rise to abuse, but has been proven to be abused. They gave land leases to tenants with forged records, and they created a rental system in which 40 percent of the points were subjective and gave the land to the one who had been targeted in advance, to whom they had been promised, and they gave it to them nicely. There's plenty of evidence for that. What happened then? The same as Congressman Font just said, "Oh, well, if you don't like it, then press charges." They're saying if you don't like it, let's go to the bids and see what happens there. We've made the charges. And what does the D.A.'s office do, the prosecutor's office that acts as your puppet? What did the prosecutor's office run by Peter Polt do? He made simple excuses not to press charges in these cases when his own prosecutors described the insolence of giving the land to his friends. In this system, of course, you can sit back and tell him to bark, dear opposition, and we'll take the land with our friends. It just doesn't make the country any better. That doesn't make people a living! Another aspect: we have already talked about, President Font said, that we are in an EU environment. Indeed, honourable Members, there is only one sector that is almost entirely the common policy governed by the EU, and this is the common agricultural policy. By selling the state lands now, we will give up any impact or impact on Hungarian agriculture, on the Hungarian countryside, on the Hungarian village. Because if he's in government control, the state requires the farmer to do what he does on that. If he's in private hands, he'll only be affected by a common policy. And the common agricultural policy basically supports industrial crop production through GOF subsidies, aid for grain and oil seeds. It does not support the growth of sectors with high employment needs, but actually supports high production, which is profit-oriented. If we're going to get involved in this, then what we're going to do is we're going to do what's left of state land, and I'm not going to waste it, and I'm going to give it to someone at a tenth price, and then they're going to give it away with a much bigger profit. [[Noise from the pro-government benches. Sándor Font: Not at a tithe price! Balázs Győrffy: Don't lie, we're not giving it at a tenth price! Zoltán Grimlock: Go out to Austria!]] Isn't it a tenth price, dear fellow Members? Okay, let's take a look at this. Today, the Hungarian land is worth one tenth of the Austrian or Dutch land, right? You said that the land law will fail before the European Union, which means that foreign buyers will come. We're not gonna be able to help you if the foreign buyers can come and buy it in 20 years, because your order gives you that assurance. The problem is, I don't even trust that. Because two years ago, they promised that they were farmers? -, those crooks who got the right to rent by lying about the conditions that you laid down in the tender, and you knew in advance that they wouldn't do it, they could now become buyers, they would buy these lands. [[Sándor Font: Talk about the tithe.]] And from then on, these conditions will not have to be met. Two years ago, when we said you were going to do this, you said, "Oh, come on, why are we talking like this, so for 20 years there's the lease, if there's 20 years' rent, then how can you sell these lands?" It's been two years and now they're selling these lands. In a government resolution, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, it depends on when these lands can be sold as speculators to foreigners and with great profit, or when the land law fails, when Viktor Orbán wakes up to simply changing this government decision and these lands can be sold. These aren't fuses! It does give room for speculation, and we very, very strongly reject it, in such a sneaky way, bypassing Parliament, you try to shove it down everyone's throats. [[Sándor Font: Are we avoiding Parliament now?]] While I did not hear a valid argument as to why this land should actually be sold and why it should be played in a month or a month and a half. My fellow Members will, of course, make further arguments. In the absence of time, because this is all the time we have left to talk about, I would just like to stress once again that the biggest sin is not that you are, in fact, embedded in speculation with this government decision that you are going to implement, but that you are taking away the opportunity to intervene in the life of the countryside in substance, to create jobs, to develop a social economy, to give land to social cooperatives, to create a demographic land programme, to create a cooperative network in which really family farmers can thrive and give jobs to many. [[Gábor Varga: We did all this eight years ago!]] . As is the case, for example, in the Netherlands, which is not a communist state, my fellow Members. In the Netherlands, family farmers keep ten million dairy cattle in a rental system, while in Hungary we hold 200 000 twice as large. Because the Dutch require what to do in these lands, and because they have made cooperatives, the right integration to make this worthwhile. This is what we should be doing for the Hungarian countryside, that is what we should be arguing about, and not how you will squander this national wealth! And one more sentence! I will do everything I can to prevent you from doing this. I'll be at these auctions. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-26-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next scheduled speaker was Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of Jobbik.
u2015-10-26-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before I turn to the substance of my speech, I am obliged to respond briefly to the words of Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. With tears in his eyes, he lamented the fate of Romania as to how many territories foreigners owned there. I would like to remind this House that, according to surveys, one million hectares are already owned by foreigners or held by foreigners in Hungary as well. [[Sándor Font: That's not true!]] I would also like to remind the House that József Ángyán is your former Secretary of State, on the one hand, and I would also like to draw your attention to who it was that said in 2001 that the Austrian sausage should be put to an end. Oh, yes, it was Viktor Orbán! Then I would like to ask why, after many years, it is still possible, for example, to be a Hungarian farmer in Albertirsa, to be a landowner, Joav Blum. Answer that. And how did 36,000 become registered farmers of 100,000 Hungarian farmers? Well, with lawyers in Pest buying a certificate for 240,000 forints, just like the nation's gas mechanic. It cost him, too, Lőrinc Mészáros, 240 thousand forints. Now, Honourable Parliament, this House, the issue of land, the question of land ownership, was a strategic issue even at the dawn of our history, and this will be even more so in the coming years and decades. We know that future wars will be fought for land and water. Therefore, the current land sale action cannot be seen as a simple policy issue, as it would be a mistake to treat it as a purely economic problem and revenue-enhancing measure. It would be much more accurate if we defined it as a division of land, an order of magnitude that has not been the case in our millennia history. Land distribution, because it is clear that there is a narrow circle of support that they wish to give a spectacular preference to the bids. The objective is clear: to strengthen a fideszes layer of provincelord, as opposed to the truly agricultural Hungarian peasantry. By the way, this is also demonstrated by the MFB loan scheme, which essentially gives to prospective customers 150 billion, as it places the money of Hungarian taxpayers to the oligarchs in a surprisingly favourable design as a state-owned bank. [[16.30]] And the magnitude of self-strength makes it clear to all doubt that the currently supported Fidesz favorites will use it. This is, therefore, the ambition that we most strongly reject, and we can regard it as a betrayal of our country's strategic goals and well-conceived interests, in short, to be understood as treason. Our goal is to fight this by all legal means. This is also the way in which we intend to launch a national movement to initiate: the national wealth, the part of the national land assets that the government cannot play, so that the external agricultural properties owned by the municipalities should be classified by the representative bodies into inalienable stock in their property regulations. In other words, the bodies will use this part of the national property to clarify that the Hungarian land is not for sale, the Hungarian land is the basis for our self-determination, our future and our survival. This proposal is being submitted by more and more Members, and more and more municipal representative bodies have discussed it on merit, and, yes, a number of bodies have accepted this proposal. Unfortunately, it is precisely in the settlements, which claim to be Christian and national, which are actually lying under Fidesz control, that the governing majority rejects our proposal for reasons such as to prove that there is no such thing as the teary-eyed romance that you claim in this House: you want to protect the Hungarian land. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I don't really know where the government is, because... [[Dr. Márton Örs Bitay consults György Balla in the benches.]] I see you've drawn further backs, not by chance, perhaps you're running from our arguments. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] If you really wanted to use the land for the benefit of the country as a whole, for the benefit of the nation as a whole, you would have had to hand over the land, or at least some of it, which is part of the current state-owned national wealth, to the municipalities, by making it the task of local authorities to cultivate and cultivate these lands. Just now, when we see what a major problem it is to ensure quality catering; when we know that local governments are the largest employers in rural Hungary through public works programmes, we should also strengthen local authorities with this and give them the possibility of self-sufficiency and self-determination. However, this thought did not arise in the government, so that the real purpose of Fidesz, the downfall of the nation's wealth, would be exposed. Shame on you! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-10-26-210	Thank you, notary. The next pre-notification speaker is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, who may be Other in Politics.
u2015-10-26-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to rise for a moment above the debate on whether the land is owned by the state or by farmers in a better place. Land, wherever it is in the world, is a common treasure of mankind, because the consequences of its treatment extend beyond the borders of a country. Conventional agriculture uses a larger proportion of the world's 1.6 billion hectares of arable land. As a result of the cultivation technology used, soils in agricultural land are responsible for emissions of about one and a half billion tonnes of carbon per year instead of swallowing coal. This method of cultivation is also responsible for the rapid loss of soil. A third of the world's plowers are deserted, 75 billion tons of soil perish each year due to erosion, becoming dust and desert. The rate of destruction of the soil is many times higher than the rate of natural formation throughout the world, here in Europe, considered to be developed and at home, in the highly praised agriculture. I am sure we will find it among the reasons for migration. Thus, the consequences of soil treatment are borne by everyone in this world, even if they have never touched the soil. Mistreatment of land involves climate change, desertion, exhaustion of soil fertility, loss of biodiversity and ultimately weakening our food, and deterioration of our health. Thus, profit-making from land does not work differently than any other gain, the owner or user of the land privatizes the benefits of use and socializes the damage, transfers it to others and future generations. While we are discussing who owns the land, the soil is slowly becoming unfit to fulfil its basic function in order to provide us with healthy and sufficient food. From this perspective, we can see that today's practices, as we deal with agricultural land, are currently not in the right place in the hands of the state or private individuals. The first thing we should do is replace our passwords: not the land for the farmers, but the owner for the land. Because it is not a real farmer who does not treat his livestock responsibly, with the love and respect that he sees not only himself but also the livelihoods of others. The state is now not a good owner of the land, as it does not require the users of the land to behave as a good farmer, the long-term use of the land. The state could also be a good owner if it were to lease land under strict conditions, requiring the land user to keep his lease in good ecological condition. It does not do this, however, because the performance expectations of so-called competitive agriculture do not allow ecological aspects to be enforced. And this is one of the points that the state should not be able to privy to agricultural land. Although the state could ensure the protection of soil in soil by legal rules, as we know, its enforcement is very low, as the soil is dying despite the legislation on its protection. The State would be in a better position as owner if it did take seriously the aspects of our environmental and long-term survival, on the one hand, because it could impose the environmental conditions of the lease within the lease agreement, and, on the other hand, by ensuring the user's competitiveness by setting a moderate rental fee in exchange for stricter requirements. The lease agreement also provides for the possibility of denying further use if the user fails to fulfil the conditions. Although the planned legislation would allow the land to be bought back for a certain period of time if the terms of the sale contract were not met, but after a while such a condition, such as land sales, inheritance, could no longer be enforced against the new owner. Dear Parliament, It is not a new finding that money can be obtained from interest and land benefits without work. When the State transfers our common property to private property, it transfers the possibility of collecting benefits to the new owner. The situation is similar here, as in the previous case, it is only temporary to prevent the land purchased from being rented. By doing so, the private owner renting his land takes the land benefit away from the tenant, which serves the private benefit. On the other hand, the State could use the land benefit to protect the common good. Thus, one of the important differences between public and private ownership is that the first is the common good and the second is the private benefit. Another issue that is socially serious is the fairness of access to resources. The conditions for earning income, decent work and living come from the possibility of using resources. Private ownership, however, excludes a number of potential users from the use of land and thus preserves social inequalities. The state will assist you with this when you're privateizing your property. The sale of land also harms the use of future generations, the state renounces the distribution of its property to those interested in land use. [[16.40]] While private property can be purchased or leased to other land users, it can be used for the lease or sale of public property. In general, people under modest financial conditions fall from the possibility of buying. Thus, precisely those social groups who need the most to ensure the conditions for earning income are excluded from land use. The future, on the other hand, favors those who are able to pay the market value of agricultural land because of their enrichment by means of annuities. As opposed to the state's current intention to waive land benefits and the possibility of land benefits regulation, the aim should be to socialise land benefits. The basis for socializing the land is that all humans, all generations of mankind, received the land as a free gift, and accordingly for thousands of years there was no private property. The socialisation of annuities does not require the expropriation of land, but only the right to pre-empt the purchase by the State of land for sale. In such a procedure, the State can regain the right to use all of our common property, which it can exploit in the interests of the common good. Dear Parliament, In the face of global problems and challenges that the world is facing today, it is not simply possible to say that the land belongs to the man who cultivates it. It can only be for those who keep it for the future. The state cannot avoid this responsibility, the land, which is the common property of all of us, cannot be the object of profit. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-26-212	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have a two-minute turn; first, Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2015-10-26-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's just one thing I'd like to make up for if Mr. Secretary has a second. Mr Secretary of State regularly says the NFA Act, which I have quoted, that four points are defined by the legislation as to what to use it for. I left point (a) out of the list at the time because I drew attention to the fact that, if point (a) is implemented and sold, points (b), (c) and (d) are excluded from the list, which provide for several other tasks, such as the possibility of replacement, the lease. That is why it was important to understand this, that the legislation does not give you the power to implement only one of four types of benefits - sales, nothing else. Similarly, in the case of Natura 2000 sites, let me say that I know I'm talking to a downtown lawyer, but let's think that the eagle from Parlag is flying [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Which lawyer in downtown?]] And from above, you can't see which is national protected, which is Natura 2000 protected and which is not protected. And when the protected bird flies above, the habitats are just as important to him, whether Natura 2000 or highly protected, national protected or local protected. So from a professional point of view, in order to maintain the level of protection, the difference between the two is of no major importance, both of which should be maintained in the same way for these protected communities. I wanted to say another personal reaction to my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy. He told me that I said that as a farmer, I say that this is in the interests of farmers, but as a politician, I disagree. [[On the signal of Balázs Győrffy:]] That's right. The explanation is very simple: we are now betraying the interests of 10 million Hungarians for the benefit of a few thousand farmers. Here, the best interests of the country and the nation would be first. Of course 70,000 people are watching it, it's a party to get the state money! Try to sell the shore of Lake Balaton, there'll be plenty of candidates for that. [[Complaining from the ranks of Fidesz: Pathetic!]] Or the Danube bank. Obviously, there would be a candidate for Parliament. That's what shouldn't be put on the grouse, and shouldn't be offered an opportunity. So here are some of the interests of farmers... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And I'm going to distance you completely from statements like the DK statement today, which label all buyers as frauds. [[The president's ringing again.]] So I would like to distance myself completely from this. Thank you.
u2015-10-26-214	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay.
u2015-10-26-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Not that it's offensive, but I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that I've spent most of my life in the country. I live in the countryside every day, from a small village. I really like living in the country. So, if you don't mind my saying so, I'd reject the fact that I'm a midtown lawyer because I've never lived in downtown. There was a time when I lived in Budapest, typically during my university years, but I was socialized in the countryside. It's very kind of you to try to do another attempt to clean up Natura and protected areas, but then allow me not to let myself. So protected natural areas - as strange as they may be to you - make rules against them, they say what you can't do. Natura areas, on the other hand, allow everything, just say you have to ask permission. There's a light-years difference between the two, Mr. Congressman. And on that basis, what you've told me is where the eagle flies, or I don't know if it's a meadow eagle... [[Sallai R. Benedict: Parlagi, but whatever.]] - he said parlagit, a gift, obviously for local knowledge, so what do you suggest? Should everything be protected in Hungary? Do you want everything naturized? I mean, there's a poor eagle flying all over the place... or a parlagi eagle, pardon! So let's talk, please, a little more objective with each other. We respect the protected, we buy, we buy thousands of acres. You're right, it has to be increased. Everything's protected, I think it's in the best place within the state's systems, I'll risk it, maybe it's in the national park operating model. But don't tell the naturist that it's protected, because it's not protected. Moreover, for the ploughers, which is a naturist plougher, a significant part of them is now not state-owned, much of them are privately owned, and everyone can give them comfortably, as they please. Of course, you're right that if he wants to do anything - that's the point - he's licensed to do it, then he needs to be signed by the authority responsible for nature conservation that I want to spray with X, Y. And if it contributes, you can use the wildest sprayer on the given naturist. Well, not that it's a goal, but let's not confuse the two, one is a strict protection that is aimed at banning, and whatever you ask, it won't allow, and it won't even be allowed by law. The other one's okay with everything. He's just telling you to go to the authorities and ask for permission. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For two minutes, Congressman György Balla will take the floor.
u2015-10-26-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Bellman's comment made me say something. Congressman, you started by saying today's debate was devastating for you. I agree with you, after your input, this debate is truly devastating. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] At least we've learned so much from it, because it's said at least ten times that a good agricultural policy is that if the land is state-owned and we tell farmers what to produce. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Not that...]] And how many people to take care of. I'm reporting, Congressman, that's been done before, and it really didn't work out. First they told farmers what to produce, then they swept the attic, and then they took the land away from them. In this experiment that you, I think, are nostalgic, I wouldn't go for it again. I would like to respond to Mr Sallai. It could be a lot of things, but only what you said the last time, because maybe it's worth thinking about. He made it clear that this proposal could otherwise be supported as a farmer and not as a politician. The fact is that Hungarian farmers, in whom we trust, produce all the agricultural crops of Hungary. They are the ones who produce us everything we need. I think we should trust us. I think we should think that what is good for Hungarian farmers is otherwise good and useful for all of us. Let's give the Hungarian farmers a chance. I think as a politician, a very serious mistake is made by someone who says to the entire economy that what is good for them is not good for the country. This kind of reminds me of what Congressman Bellozó said, the state tells the farmer what he should do. I've done this before, but I wouldn't start this experiment again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. For the next two minutes, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP.
u2015-10-26-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In short, I would like to read to Sándor Font a quote from 14 of them. [[For signal:]] I'll read it anyway. One of his fellow fighters said that I would be pleased if only half of them were kidnapped, but in this mob control, the people had no opportunity to force at least half of them to be left to him. And he goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on When I left the government, he came to me, said I was sorry, but he still has plans for this political career, so he can't help me. I'm telling you, everyone knows who said that, and they were absolutely right. And I also see that as the command changes at the party center, the principles and arguments change. I don't want to subpoena what Secretary of State wrote in a statement. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Yes, subpoena him.]] on the NFA website, which President James... I'm sure this will come up. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Yes, subpoena him, Zoli.]] [[16.50]] So in this, the sad, honourable fellow Members, is that it is not professionalism that matters here, but that just when who makes up what, it is a big boss, and it must be carried out blindly. By the way, I would like to propose to Congressman Balla a national consultation. Ask the villagers when they lived better: during the period when they had employment in the countryside And where they live better, where it's clear... Ask him. You don't have to smile about it. You have to go to people. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And ask them when they lived better. He's gonna laugh, by the way, and I'm sure they'd say they lived much better then, because now they have all kinds of freedom, but they don't have any money, and I don't think that's any better. [[György Balla: Zoli! Should it be communism again?]] We're not talking about communism, we're talking about a social union that could do the same product that we did in the '80s, with competence, and not with this kind of idiotic economic policy. On a private basis, not on the basis of what was then, but the same thing could be done, only to get the golden farming community to help make the village people better. [[György Balla: Why didn't you do it? Didn't you happen to be Secretary of State?]] That's what we should agree on, but not on the basis of what you want, because it's not an agreement, it's a robbery, my dear friends! [[György Balla: As State Secretary, why didn't you do it? Applause in the benches of MSZP and Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-26-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next two-minute comment by President Novak, Congressman Jobbik.
u2015-10-26-221	Dear Parliament, I promised József Ángyán that I would confront the governing parties with a previous promise, a failure: the demographic land programme. The 2011 news was that the demographic earth programme could start with almost 200,000 hectares in 2012 - but let's not mention the news. I looked up the national rural strategy adopted by the government in 2012, which is still in force, and it is a subtitle of the Constitution of the Hungarian countryside. Let me confront you with your misdemeanor crime. I quote from this: The population situation shows a disastrous picture. The demographic situation in rural areas is particularly critical within the country, today 62 percent of agricultural workers belong to middle-aged and old age groups, one in three agricultural workers is now over 50 years old, and one in ten years has only been the fourth. If the trend does not change, a few years, decades from now, agriculture could have disastrous consequences for the ageing process. Although there are young people in our country who imagine their future in rural areas, agriculture and other rural economic activities, the conditions for this are not always appropriate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And then we can read the strategic directions and tasks of the demographic land programme, based on which:. The National Land Fund provides a permanent 25-50-year lease of land and other means, with hereditary land lease rights for young farming couples, which can be complemented by social policy and farming benefits. The condition is that the young family settles in the countryside, farm in a sustainable way, and undertake the birth and rearing of two or more children. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This national rural strategy, which is still in force, required the provision of public land for the programme, but despite the fact that the demographic land programme should have been launched in the first half of 2012, this did not happen. I'm going to ask the government when we can expect this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Preliminary speeches will follow; first, István Jakab, Member Fidesz.
u2015-10-26-223	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a discreet charm that, after the change of regime, 25 years in the Hungarian Parliament, we are debating how great life was in the countryside in the period before the change of regime, how stable, predictable, the rural democracy worked perfectly. I think it's kind of a little bit, maybe not to others, but probably to a lot of us, but we take note of it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What's wrong with you? The house and the eight million pigs punch you in the chest?]] It's a good thing we're in this House to be able to argue about this in substance, lucky for us. My proud fellow Member, I am used to your continuing assurance of the musical background when I speak. Thank you very much. I'll try not to listen to him. Dear Parliament, Well, since we've gone back to the change of regime, I'd like to remind you of a few little things. When privatisation began, who benefited from it? Who would benefit from it? Did farmers who honestly wanted to take back their land and start farming profit from it? Congressman Haughty was talking about minutes. Well, you're looking at the minute person who's been involved in agricultural affairs for 25 years who, I'm not proud of it, but I didn't raise any money. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The system...]] But I know what it is to fight conscientiously for people, you know? [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] I'm not proud of it, but I can still look you in the eye. [[Zoltán Grimlock: So am I.]] One. Two. Let's get this straight on the side of the minute people, see what's going on. You may remember when companies wanted to give them the opportunity to acquire land in 1996 [[Zoltán Pride: I don't remember him!]] when we had to start collecting signatures in order to protect and preserve the land at all, because you would have sold it a long time ago. Perhaps you still remember that we should jump when in 2002 they were given the opportunity to govern, what was their most important step: to apply the land law to the salad law, and obviously there they immediately amended the laws aimed at destroying family farms. Recall, my dear fellow Member, how the legislation on family farms has been changed. Remember how preferential loans for family farms were changed, imposing new conditions and putting them in an impossible position! [[Zoltán Grimlock: We never took him back!]] Remember, dear Congressman, that nearly HUF 80 billion has been released to large plants. Remember how consolidation was organised for large plants. I hope I've been able to recall it in your memory. [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes.]] Recall how much the situation of family farms has been taken into account in the EU negotiations. Recall that they were not even willing to invite us back in the day. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now what, Pista?]] At that time Minister Imre Németh indicated that we had not invited the President of Magos because he disagreed with us. Well, I think that we didn't negotiate here, anywhere else, and we've had a real discussion before, so just remember. [[Zoltán Pride: Then you went to protest, and now you don't!]] That's very kind of you, Congressman. It's such a nice way to talk, but just go ahead and don't bother yourself. Here's what I'd like to suggest to you. Now they shed huge crocodile tears about what will happen to family farms, what will happen to individual farmers. Congressman, it should have been; it should have been when these tender notices were drawn up and when they were published in the Hungarian Gazette, where you formed sales units; when you merged the territories, you should have owned 1/1 so that you could give them to those who were dear to you in a large unit for a bid. Think back. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There was no such thing, it did not end!]] It's in my hand! It's in my hand! [[He's showing me the papers.]] Honourable Congressman, You set up these sales units because once you have sold a large economy - I know you will continue to mention Szendrő now. Yeah, if you were able to sell a 5400-acre farm and give the land to the company, of course, then you'd have one sales unit, all you had to do was give it all away. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Did we give it to you?]] Yeah, because we stopped it. [[Balázs Győrffy: The intention was done!]] The only reason it didn't work anyway is because the Italian owner and the stroman didn't happen to have an I.D. number, but the Secretary of State of Buda could talk about it a little longer. If we just recall the past. All right, let's keep looking. Once we've got the big sales units, once we've solved everything, then you've come to say, "Well, we're going to introduce the SPS system." What is this SPS system? Well, they're setting the funds on a base. This was beautifully introduced, and we had to attack the Constitutional Court to prevent it from being implemented. [[17.00]] What would that have meant? It would have meant, my dear Secretary of State, that if we had managed to give the land, we would have added the funds in particular. Well, I understand, I understand that this is bothering you. Supporting young farmers, Mr. Secretary of State, just to be precise, I tried to fast-track myself. At the time when the New Hungary Rural Development Programme was prepared by you, you will make HUF 8 billion for young farmers. [[Zoltán Pride: And how did it end? 26.]] 8 billion forints were planned. That's when we signaled it was virtually nothing. You didn't listen or trust young people. I am pleased that Congressman Gábor Harangozó is now so happy to mention the young people's cause and to stand up for them in such a fight. I should have, dear Congressman, when 8 billion has been earmarked for a seven-year financial cycle, so - and I'll tell you this because I'm not talking to you, let's stick to the facts - you paid a total of HUF 25 billion. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right. So what's the problem?]] You're all... [[Dr. László Varga: Why is it good that you sell the land?]] Wait a minute. In that cycle alone, the Orbán government added a total of HUF 72 billion to this, my dear Member. [[Zoltán Gőgös: 70 billion for young farmers? Stop talking!]] You added 72 billion forints in total to this, Mr. Congressman. This is where the government begins to deal with young people in substance, giving weight. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressman, this is what has been paid and what is being paid to young farmers in this financial cycle. But speaking of who's telling the truth and who isn't, at that time we had a huge debate about why young people who were already farming, whose families were farming, who were given all the land from parents and grandparents to try their wings. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you ready to go now?]] They refused to turn to the Union and refused to change it. Now, in the current programme, those young farmers can apply already in the youth farmer's programme, because that is how the programme has been accepted, because that is what the current government wants, that the young farmer who is farming can use the funds. Honourable Congressman, I would just like to inform you that what the government has planned is 77 billion forints in this cycle plus for young farmers. So you've already paid 72 once, and now you've planned 77 billion. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We praise the day with peace!]] I also think, indicating to Congressman Sallai that this government does not want to mess with the fact that, as a starting farmer, it gives 1-2 or 5 hectares of land and drives it to start farming, because sooner or later it will fail, but will pay attention, help and provide adequate support for young farmers. You know, our goal is to create truly competitive and long-term stable economies that can survive in international competition. Well, I think that maybe after that... Allow me to mention one more little color. Do you remember when the decision was made from Natura 2000 sites, you know, Mr Sallai, you know how the Hungarian farmers learned that their territory fell into Natura 2000 land? [[Róbert Zsigó: Zoltán Gőgös said it.]] That's because they went to the land office and accidentally wanted an intervention. The government at the time refused to give at least one information, even though the farmers in all the Member States of the European Union were properly consulted and informed, you know? I'd just like to remember that, by the way. I have another third comment. Don't worry about the Hungarian farmer. The Hungarian farmer knows exactly how and why the land must be cultivated. You know? ! He thinks for generations, not about, and doesn't base himself on farming as a tenant, he wants to create property. Why? They missed him, so let's see. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the owner is thinking stable and long-term, he is paying attention to how he cultivates the soil, what the soil's nutrient level is, how he spends, how much money to achieve adequate returns as a normal farmer. If you want to settle your territory for irrigation, do you want to invest heavily in a rented area? No. [[Zoltán Pride: Why not?]] In the long term, stable property is the one that provides security and guarantees. My fellow Members have said the various EU aspirations, and I would just like to say one sentence, allow me. We know exactly who and how the Hungarian land law has been declared in Brussels, the style is familiar, and it has been said a lot in this House. If they were willing to do so, we obviously have a certain fear that the attack in Brussels will not start by accident. I am convinced that it was not an accident that I initiated that farmers really have the best place for the land, so that farmers have the right credit to do so, with a real 1.95 per cent interest burden for 20 years. My colleagues have made it clear that I do not want to repeat the conditions that we can and can create for this. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond very briefly to the words of my fellow Member Gábor Harangozó. I wrote to myself that the answer would be unworthy. In that style, I wouldn't want it. I wouldn't want it in that style, I think that in a few years he will realize that using harsh terms in the Hungarian Parliament doesn't make his word more important. I think that if you give examples here in this House, it is very right, do so, and only give these examples, please, that it can be applied to the Hungarian economy. If you really fear for the Hungarian people, if you really fear for the Hungarian countryside, then somehow I do not understand it, perhaps you should also consult with your group, not just express your personal opinion on how they imagined and how they imagine that rural people should get adequate land in the countryside. How could they imagine that one moment they wanted to take the land away, one moment they wanted a big sales unit, one minute they wanted a big estate, the next they wanted a social cooperative and spread the land? Congressman, any statement puts serious question marks at the end of this sentence, decide which one is true. I do not wish to discuss this part any longer, let us remain in the decision of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian government has joined the farmers, the Hungarian government has the importance of creating a competitive, long-term stable, functioning economy in the Hungarian countryside so that these economies are able to compete in every respect. We know very well that we can protect the land by law, but in the long term we can only keep it with productive farming, and in order to succeed in farming, we need serious investment and property. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-224	Thank you, Congressman, Mr Vice President. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-10-26-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There is a small debate on young farmers, and I would like to give you some information on this. Land support: Congressman Novak mentioned the need to support young farmers with land. I agree with Mr President, I also agree that they could have received much more, or at least it would have been good if they could have won more land, but with some data, I would like to support the fact that we are not on such a bad path. One is that, since there was no system of applications before 2010, there was no additional point for anyone wishing to apply for state land use as a young farmer. This is not the case now since 2010, which shows that almost 1,500 young farmers have won the land for the farmers programme, and in my speech to Parliament this afternoon, I referred to the fact that they have won a Balaton area, and these young farmers can farm over 60,000 hectares. I would add that 280,000 hectares of the land is the closure of the programme for the farmers, which we paid in the previous cycle. [[17.10]] Of that, 60,000 acres is a very strong, large number. I would also like you to appreciate this as a result, if necessary, even if we agree that it would be good if they could have had more. It is also an important statistical fact that every two-and-a-half young farmer who actually applied for the land won the programme for the farmers, so almost everyone who was able to get on the starting line was able to gain something from it. Otherwise, an average of 40 hectares is what young farmers have won. It also has pasture and ploughing, the situation is varied. And I think we should all be happy to know that this more than 140 billion forints, which we spend specifically on young farmers' subsidies, is something that we should be seeing in a short period of time, and what you are asking us to do is that we can call this, we can call it, this 140 billion, and this over 60,000 hectares they have received, is a very important number. That's what I wanted to add to the young farmer's data. And I would only respond to the speech by Mr Haughty that it is really funny that he cites the 1980s that then agriculture went well. Well, as a child, I can't give you a personal experience. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Your father could!]] But I know the jokes and comedians of Hofi Géza, and how many of them do the pigs eat? I would like to draw attention to his well - known sense of humor. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now we're going there with you, slowly!]] It was created in the '80s, and that's what we have left. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It wasn't the '80s, it was the '50s.]] In addition to exports, what Hofi said was for its own use, so that's it for these data. I don't think it's right for us to think about the things we do. I think that it is very important and very important that the Hungarian agricultural economy has developed in some very important numbers. If I look at the fact that agricultural output has increased by almost 43 percent in the current price compared to 2010, then we have not yet reached back to what was before, it is a data that should be considered seriously, and the number of people employed in agriculture - these are ISH data, non-governmental data - in 2014 it was almost 10 percent higher than the 2010 level. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many public workers?]] In addition, Secretary of State Czerván, my colleague, will be able to provide you with a number of additional data, which, I think, proves that we are on the right track. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2015-10-26-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see it a little differently than my fellow Member James said. [[Zoltán Grumpy shows something on his laptop to Dr. Márton Bitay Örs and György Czerván.]] Not just our seating position, but maybe [[The president's ringing the bell.]] some other aspects also define this. Look, I consider what's happening here to be nothing more than a story about the future of friends or a story about the sale of the future. This is about the draining of Hungary's existing assets. [[György Balla: Everyone starts from themselves.]]
u2015-10-26-228	My apologies, Congressman, but your groupmate won't let you talk. Here, let's hear it, Mr. Notary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-229	I'm honored, thank you very much. So, the future of friends or the future of the future. This is a story about theft of Hungary's wealth. The countryside, as far as I can tell, is suffering from depression, and they leave the countryside the most [[György Balla: You suffer in it!]] - No, unfortunately, the countryside suffers from depression, and the countryside is mostly left by young people. Even my fellow group leader should know that. Apparently, half a million people who have left the country have unfortunately been most affected by the countryside over the past five years. I have to say that this must be clearly done, and the land itself is a kind of opportunity to do so, of course, if the municipalities were to be given the opportunity and opportunity to access the land assets that, once it has been taken over, could actually create a real social cooperative background. Simply so that humans can do real, value-creating activities, for example, by using land. But you don't care about that, it's not about people being able to work, it's about having the right guys. I don't have to start talking about trafies and a lot of other things, your conscience can obviously confirm that, even if they don't speak out loud about it. Sándor Font, when talking about the situation in terms of employment and wage and GDP, I would just like to confirm that if you look at, say, the period 2002-2006, when there was no global economic crisis within the four-year cycle, the GDP per capita growth in that four-year cycle was 18-19 percent. Now between 2010-14, 7-7.5 percent. For the sake of comparison, not underestimating a 7-7.5 percent increase in GDP, but I think it is important that we can put the periods together. What's about is that their political power, I don't know how else to put it, and I don't want to, they want to turn it into economic power, some people say that they're doing a robbery, it's not a very decent activity. Obviously, in some sense, the purpose of the previous land applications, which I thought were shameful, has now become clear and clearly visible, they have obviously prepared today's process and, for example, the cases in which they have obtained illegal land leases are now making their situation even easier, they can obtain property even without bidding. So, when we talk about 380,000 hectares of land and about - from where we approach - about 400-500 billion forints of income, I would like to know, of course, whether this financial condition will be used in the future, whether it will happen as a nuance of the HUF 3000 billion private pension fund savings. I don't have much doubt about it, of course, in a similar form. I would also like to quote the words of Viktor Orbán to you: Orbán said a few years ago that we are not selling, but buying the land. Yeah, he didn't say that one by one, but that the state, on behalf of the state, said that we wouldn't sell it, but buy it. Now, interestingly, we see the reverse of this happening. They'll buy it, just not the state, but the individual people will get it, and unfortunately, I have to say, I have no doubts that they're friends. Obviously, it could also be done, and it can be asked, that my fellow Member James will probably be able to tell me more about this, and I would also ask that, if he knows, he should do what is the case, for example, with regard to the revelation of a former Secretary of State, György Raskó, that there are already lists of who, where, how, how they will bid. I read his revelations with reference to the Hungarian farmers' circles and host associations. If that is the case, then it is a very big problem if it is not so, then I think that my fellow Member James can do the proper rebuttal of this. [[István Jakab: Thank you very much.]] But that's not the point. It is, in fact, that when it is in your best interest to do so, we are privateizing, in this case, land, when it is in your best interest, then we are centralizing, for example, the stage of universal public services, energy. Anyway, it's all about where, how, how, how to pull off. [[Balázs Győrffy: Agrobusiness is gone!]] I'm telling you, where, how to pull off. Yes! And so, my fellow Members have said, that is why I would not care too much about the part that gives and provides access to 300 hectares of land for a week-old goldfish farmers. Let's say that Hungary's gas mechanic can also provide access, if necessary, and later people will be considered as beneficiaries, as the example confirmed in 2012 that in addition to receiving a dividend of HUF 800 million, HUF 157 million was paid for the employment of 225 people. Put the numbers together, and think that if, let's say, similar trends in access to the earth will prevail, then what kind of surfaces, what kinds of truths will be born, how will people be exploited in this country. [[17.20]] If you have to sum it up in some thoughts, then I do not know any other way, just by taking stock of the Hungarian Socialist Party's period of government and looking at what happened in the field. Not land, but land lease rights were sold by the state during that period. I'm telling you, the state didn't sell land, it sold land leases. The land fortune did not decrease, but increased by 30,000 hectares. I'm telling you, it didn't drop the land fortune, it grew by 30,000 acres. I would also like to suggest to you that you should rather try to ensure that the state's land fortune in Hungary is stable, not reduced, and not for your friends, not for the pereputty, as much as possible, because the country does not have a lot of benefits. There could be concrete examples of this. Obviously Gorzsai Agricultural Company. For some, more than 1,300 hectares of land can be obtained through public tenders or, as in 2014, 676 million forints of agricultural aid can be obtained, especially if a government operator is also owner in this company. Obviously, it's good to have a Start 2003 Bt. Within its framework, the prosecution acts in relation to the prosecution, and although recognition of public land under the heading "fictitious" is carried out, the suspect has not broken the contract with false data. Yeah, if it's about your buddies, and that's how it works, then everything's fine. I wish for you and all of us not to face a multitude of such stories in Hungary, but a multitude of stories that, as you know, serve the interests of the hardworking little people. So let's support the man who lives and works on his job, not on his friends and not on his ass. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-26-230	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I now give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2015-10-26-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond to a few things, and I don't want to take up time with my pre-registered fellow factions, so I'm trying to be brief. I was inspired by the vehement speech of Mr. Bell. You mentioned you'd be at the bidding. I do not know if this was intended as a threat or announcement, but of course it may be there, because these bidding is public and it can bid, if it meets the conditions, i.e. it has a sufficient degree or it has been working in agriculture for a longer period of time. I'm sure that's true. Among the keynote speeches, the speech of the keynote speakers of Jobbik and MSZP was very interesting. We have been attacked by Mr Grumpy, because we are withdrawing subsidies from large farms and, in particular, from large livestock farmers - he obviously meant degressivity and to take the land away - and Jobbik criticized the opposite of giving these subsidies and these lands to large farms. So we were attacked completely in the opposite direction, but that's not a problem. Mr Gőgös also highlighted the problem of the dairy sector in the livestock sector. The dairy sector is indeed the biggest problem in the agricultural sector at present. But doing nothing for them, I wouldn't say. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, while the dairy sector received HUF 29 billion in 2014, this will increase to HUF 52-54 billion after 2015. I would like to point out that this is one of the largest sectoral aid in the European Union, which concerns the dairy sector. The problem still exists, of course, as buying-in prices have fallen by about 25 percent, but if we did not give this increased aid, the problem would be much bigger. In recent weeks, the European Union has also taken action in this regard and is planning a EUR 420 million framework to address the dairy crisis in the sector. Of this, Hungary received significantly more than the weight of milk production in the European Union, since there is about 1.1 percent of Hungarian milk production in the EU, while we can receive some 2.5 percent support, which will be used entirely to help the dairy sector. This is about HUF 2.9 billion, by the way, and when the last time there was such support for a representative when he was a State Secretary, it was only HUF 900 million. At the advance, we raised the level of support to 70 percent, and this only represents an additional HUF 10 billion liquidity source for the dairy sector. I had not yet talked about the increase in aid for the treatment of animal diseases, the disposal of animal corpses, the school milk scheme and the promotion of fibre fodder. All of these support items seek to alleviate the sector's problem. Congressman Gógös also had an idea of how good the leadership from the party centre was. That's not exactly how I remember it, but when it was better, it was an interesting approach. I would just compare the 2014 figures with the 2010 numbers, which my colleague Bitay referred to in part. The output was HUF 2410 billion, which is 43 percent higher, and the largest agricultural emissions of all time compared to 2010. Another very important measure is the development of the value of investments in agriculture. Last year it was 320 billion forints that had barely exceeded 200 billion forints in 2010. I think this song speaks for itself. Agricultural external trade: for many years, our agricultural exports have been over €8 billion, but it is even more important that the agricultural activity is between €3 and €3.5 billion. This shows again the performance of the sector, and that the country's return to growth in terms of GDP in 2013 has played a very important role in Hungarian agriculture. It is enough to point out that last year we harvested the largest production or average production of maize, sunflower, rape seed, sugar beet - not in the 2010s or in the 1980s - but the 2014 agricultural report will soon be discussed by Parliament, and then we will be able to discuss these figures in detail. I would like to point out one more thing: the subject of young farmers is very important to us, too. On behalf of my colleague, Mr Bitay, the land programme has been said to young farmers, and my fellow Members have referred to the amount of money that has been used to support young farmers in EAFRD rural development applications and the amount of money that we intend to spend on this. I would like to remind everyone that Hungary has been a leader in the CAP negotiations so that young farmers can also benefit from direct support. What I am thinking is that the Commission initially wanted to provide young farmers with direct aid for up to 25 hectares, and it was able to raise it to 90 hectares during the negotiations. So I think it is clear that we want to help put young farmers in position, precisely because of what many people have quoted here, because the agricultural society has grown extremely old, and not only in Hungary, but in the whole European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-232	Thank you, Secretary of State Czervan. The next announced speaker was Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member Fidesz. [[Defiance.]]
u2015-10-26-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, but I am still in the Jobbik fraction.
u2015-10-26-234	Sorry, it's not Fidesz. It's Jobbik. Excuse me.
u2015-10-26-235	It is interesting to look at it from debate to debate, no matter what specialty it is that the parties of government are once again at the same moral dead end. That's because you steal with the same pattern or the same technique as your predecessors, or you use the same technique to transfer government assets into private hands, into the hands of your buddies, and you'll be remembered by the previous government, which doesn't excuse you from committing the crime. [[17 .30]] That didn't work for me in elementary school. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Auction.]] When I went home and got an "A" because I didn't study, even though I told my parents that the X.Y. and Z. got an "A," it didn't mean I was guilty, and I got the right retortion. Therefore, I would like to say that even if you are caught up in this moral dead end, this retortion will catch up with you in the process of getting to the Jobbik government. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then we're on the subject. There may be discussions about the right way, what is the purpose of the use of national wealth, in this case the purpose of the use of agricultural land. In my opinion, but I don't think it's my faction and the opposition's opinion that it's either that, lying down under momentary interests, we're playing out that land for friends. The money thus obtained, and the money thus received, should be spent, for example, either exaggerating and wasteful government costs, or we feed corruption, which flourishes under the Fidesz administration as well as under the previous governments, or we use this accumulated money for insane and unnecessary investments. Or the other option is that we actually use this wealth for the benefit of people living in Hungary, we try to make use of this wealth, in this case the agricultural land, so that the Hungarian citizens, the people living in this country, can obtain income, whether moral, social, or actually material income. I'd like to give you a few examples of what these fields could be used for. Of course, given my specialty, I mean social land programmes. We can even think of the fact that public workers can actually be created by means of meaningful and not unnecessary production work. Not to mention that we can help these people with their reintegration process, if they actually do useful work, doing productive activities. Or we can talk about the possibility that certain families in certain areas would be given a great opportunity, and I could even say that it would ensure their everyday lives, ensure their livelihoods, and that their life-threatening situation could be solved by creating, or selling, extra crops for themselves on a certain land, or by moving them up a certain level, from the state of life to the category of survival. Or we've talked about social cooperatives. There are many good examples of how these can be operated. There is a very good example, Békészentandrás. Mayor Imre Sinka took very good advantage of this opportunity and created a very good social cooperative. Or we can talk about the Rozsály settlement in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, whose mayor has been working long enough to create a self-sustaining village, and we can roughly see that he has succeeded. And what kind of problems did that solve? On the one hand, it almost eliminated unemployment in the settlement. They manage to create a self-sufficient settlement. He directed the problem of lively, sharp Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence typical of that region, because in this case Gypsy-Hungarianism and Gypsy-Hungarians work together, working together for the village, making conflicts between them easier to resolve and easier to eliminate. So they can actually work together shoulder to shoulder for their own settlement. So there are many examples of the benefits of this. Let's just remember one thing. In the event that we sell these public lands, we may have a very high income at the moment, and our buddies will have very good assets, but in the long run, this will not lead to a great result. In the long term, even social land programmes lead, not to mention the results that can be achieved from a criminological point of view, the ability to provide livelihoods for people who have so far depended on the state. With self-sufficient settlements, you can create a prosperous rural Hungary, and it can bring long-term, fixed and quite high incomes, whether from a moral, human, social, or material point of view. So it would be the right thing to do. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-236	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2015-10-26-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Interview from the ranks of Fidesz: New one.]] I'm trying to say something new. Thank you for the call. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Font, thanking first of all for the fact that he did not at least tell lies, but gave facts about the European Union's failure to fulfil its obligations. It's just that I think you've drawn the wrong conclusions. Yeah, that's part of the conversation, at least we're talking about it. So in relation to infringement procedures that have arisen or may arise in connection with Hungary's land law, we fully share your concerns. We are fully with you, and we support you in insisting that we protect the Hungarian land with Hungarian farmers. But in our opinion, it is not the solution to privacy. Tell me what you're afraid of, why you need to be lonely. If you're afraid of a worse government than you, someone else would sell or steal the land or something, then Jobbik has already offered us the option that if we make it impossible to traffic, it can be protected. There are other ways to keep it. Let me ask my fellow Member: will he put his hand on fire for the fact that the few thousand people who are about to land will none of them sell that land to an EU citizen in 20 years' time? Do you dare to do that here? 'Cause there's only one thing I can refuse. My fellow Member, Mr Font, said that he and the MSZP have already been in opposition, and that the opposition has no responsibility, it is easy to say anything. Please, it's not like that. Believe me, I'm just saying things that I take responsibility for. The question is, will you do the same? I say that if you take responsibility, and all the politicians who support it are responsible with all their wealth, that this will achieve the goal that you are saying and that the small-scale sector will be strengthened, then I say that this is a responsibility. No. The government doesn't have any responsibility, I don't think, not the opposition. You're not responsible. They make a decision, and they can't measure the impact that this will have in five years. Tell me, my fellow Member, what you will say if I come here in five years with a KSH statistics, and I will prove that small family farms under five have continued to lose their numbers. So you're gonna say, "Yeah, well, would it have gone down even more if we hadn't done that?" Obviously, the question is, where do you come to the conclusion that this could be a solution to the problems that you have raised? Once again, I can identify with the problems raised by my fellow Member, Mr Font, and accept them, but I do not consider what you are bringing as a solution. In the same way, let me say that you say in your speech that the opposition is involved in these things that the government is doing every day. [[György Balla: That's right.]] However, let me remind you, even my fellow Member, Balla, that last week was here, in an average week, we discussed 10-15 pieces of legislation without any input, but we are voting for what we know. Look at the voting attitude. What is eligible, why shouldn't we vote for it? There's a lot of cases here, too. What you represented in 2010 and 11th and 12th in the national rural strategy, what to do with the Hungarian land and what to do with the Hungarian countryside, we brought this rural strategy here with my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, to make it a parliamentary decision. So, on what we agree, why don't we support you? Your aspirations? The problem is that we cannot agree on something as much as on this land privatisation, because obviously what I am talking about is that they draw the wrong conclusions, in my opinion, the most important issue is whether it helps small farmers or makes it worse for rural employment. It is also interesting to think of my fellow Member when he says that the state has never managed. We know that that is not what he meant, because he was farming, because there were state farms. Obviously, it is possible to accuse the opposition of state economic romance and such, but what we have to see is that in the last 25 years, when no great government has begun to privatise them, whether it was a fidesz leader or an MSZP leader, the tractor station and the cowhouse were in the country. Now, after the application system, these jobs went out for the first time. So as long as these bad systems were in place, I fully agree with you that the government was bad, that it was a bad farmer, but the problem is that what Minister János Lázár says is that if one was in power, it was stolen by the other, it was absolutely so. We just shouldn't assume that it's a bad government and that they're stealing for everyone. This is the preconception that the problem is that it comes from the Fidesz culture, that everyone would surely steal if they got there. The possibility of creating more jobs with these public lands should be given. Because there's a chance that if a left-wing government comes with a left-wing economic policy, why not re-create state economies or put a right-wing economic policy into a tendering system in which employment is promoted? Now, in business plans, there was hardly any point. Why not say that we do give the land to the person who creates as many jobs as possible, and this can already be a negotiating basis. But obviously there can be many other negotiating bases, because let us assume that we acknowledge that the largest voting base in Hungarian society is on your side, empowered you to govern. [[17.40]] You say you want to sell these lands anyway, because that's what you believe. But why can't there be other conditions? Why don't we just tell him that we're only selling to whoever I say we are, that he can create a job every 30 ha and that he can buy it? And keep that up for the next 50 years. Why do you need a 20-year disposal ban? Why can't there be a permanent disposal ban for the person who bought it? If it is, as our fellow Member James said, that generations will take over from each other, then there is no need to fear the heir. Then the 20 years must be increased to 50 years. We need to increase it to 100 years, and we see the extra security that you might be right. So let's talk about how this can be done. Obviously, this is important because when we talk about changing generations, and my fellow Member James says that the Hungarian farmer is planning to take over his child, let us not forget that many of these lands will not be able to be used by the farmer. Some things you won't be able to use for 36 years, and you won't be able to farm on them. What you can't use for 36 years, with that 20-year ban on disposal, you won't get anywhere. You can do that anyway, someone's using the land, paying the land lease, and in 20 years, I'll sell it when I get the chance. The question is, he's gonna bid you out. I said that I didn't want to go into that game, and I also delineated and held it important that I do not agree with what DK said today. I've seen that we don't have DK colleagues here. Today, a national announcement came out saying that there would only be stolen land here and that only Fidesz people would shop. That's not true. I know there's gonna be a fidesz backwinder, and there's gonna be a lot of nice people who'll buy and bid the same way. But the fact that it's obviously going to be like this doesn't give you the right not to argue about whether it's worth selling. I would therefore like to return to this part of the debate as to whether the plan itself is good, that these lands should be sold. And obviously that's an exciting question. My fellow Member, Mr Font, said that there were 70,000 viewers on the NFA website after the opening. The question is, will there be 70,000 bidders? 'Cause I'm gonna set it up for you and I'm gonna put it on, and I'm not gonna tell you what it is, 'cause then you're gonna ask me the lock, and I bet you there's not gonna be 70,000 bids. Because a large part of farmers can't pay these advances and start bidding. So even though there are so many interested people, there are many more than potential buyers among the viewers of luxury cars, and that will be the problem, and most people cannot afford to take part in these bids. Very important: My colleague György Balla said how important it is for farmers to have this land. The LMP also says: let the farmers have it. Let the farmers who want to cultivate it be the farmers who want to create jobs. But it doesn't have to be everything, it doesn't have to be that, because farmers already have the land. You always say that, oh, we are talking about very little land, because we are talking about only one county of land, five percent of all agricultural land. Mr. Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs said this number to a large extent here, if I remember correctly, only then will he disprove me, i.e. to a large extent. We're talking about only five percent. It's not about who owns the land, because it's already decided. Farmers have the land. In fact, it's not just farmers. We could settle the property, because if we look at the Western European examples of how the farming structure is related to the ownership structure, there is an extremely strange figure in Hungary, as the number of owners is nearly ten times the number of producers. The land is already there. The question is, should all the land be there? We are talking about only 5 percent of the agricultural land, and we claim in several opposition factions that it is good and useful for the state to keep so much land because it can be done with it. It can be used to implement a tool that can lead to jobs in rural areas. I will turn to what my fellow Member, Mr Font, has to say. Did you begin your speech with some elegant charm? [[István Jakab: Discreet charm.]] Yes, discreet charm. I think it's got a discreet charm. [[István Jakab: Yes!]] If the two great governing parties are arguing about who stole more. Obviously, if we're talking about who brought home how much, then there could be a competition, but the problem is that the right that I started with was not to be taken away, what happened to the public fortune in the last 25 years. My fellow Member, who is sitting next to me, left the newspaper on the front page:. He stole the country away from the Hungarian elite, which is on the front page of Hungary's most read daily page, which I think we agree is the same as public opinion. That's what happened. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's public opinion. So I'm not the only one saying this, but, let's say, Minister János Lázár also says that. That is what Minister János Lázár said at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture - I do not know which is serious - but it is simply about how much of the remaining wealth is to be protected and what to do with it. And obviously what's happening now is that first, when one of my fellow Members talked about being stolen, we're just talking about the land. I don't believe in all this land being stolen, but I think that this money is going to be nothing. There will be no improvement. What they're not gonna do is they're gonna buy another Parliament, and they're gonna stop the wealth so that the state doesn't lose its assets. No - they're gonna live up to it! This wealth will flow into the next year's budget, and this will result in this typical Hungarian quality: no money, no poster! That's right. [[Noise.]] We have the preconception because if we look at the government decision, which says that the sources of revenue should be used to develop Hungary, that is a broad concept compared to what the NFA law determines what should be used for. Will all of this turn into new land? Will they all become assets that help Hungarian small and medium-sized farmers? Obviously not. Stealing not only land, but also income, since your predecessors have proven this many times. And obviously it is important that we talk about this and discuss it, because the same process that has been going on for 25 years, or there is a chance that you might think about it. That's why I'm interested in this dialogue and this debate, and today a journalist asked me what I was expecting, and I said I was expecting a dialogue of the deaf, that it doesn't make any sense. The question is, is there any argument that might make you think. Does it exist? Or from the time that István James put this in here, they all took it, and they will believe it from here on in. It's true that in recent years this has never been believed, and if the MSZP brought this in 2008, then you'd be burning everything, and there'd be a million people in Kossuth Square and all that, but with someone ratting on your team, it's a very good idea and helping farmers. I look forward to proof of this, how you will help me, and I expect you to take responsibility then. Let the politicians who initiate this stand up and say that they are responsible for their entire wealth, that the number of Hungarian small and medium-sized farmers will increase here! I'd like to know how much it's growing. Give me some numbers. How many more employees will there be? How is the proportion of agriculture to GDP increasing? Because what you said, Mr Secretary of State Czerván, is obviously true, but you said just the same sectors that do not have the highest employment. The proportion of agriculture in GDP does not indicate the real performance of agriculture, because the question here is how this is reflected in employment and how it helps rural survival. And obviously, if there is a deficit in this, it is an important indicator, but it is only revenue, and it is not necessarily an indicator, because revenue can be increased by reducing the need for living work. So overall, I would like us to return to the part of the debate about whether it makes sense to do so. The reason I didn't want to have a conversation with Secretary of State Bitay about Natura 2000 areas and what the credit facility is like is because it's basically not possible to agree with the purpose, and I'm still looking at it, and I'm wondering if there's anything on your side that could dissuade you from having anything at least to think about, and if there's an argument on which you can at least doubt that this is a good goal. I look forward to your response, and the representatives of the government, in particular, to giving me figures on how many new jobs, how many new economies under 5 will this result, what do they expect from this? What will be the result? Where are the calculations of this? What is it that proves that this goal will help? Basically, I would like to see the effectiveness of this, because that is why I do not believe that this is a good goal, and that is why I am still convinced that if the state keeps these lands, it can serve rural development goals with much more efficiency than with sales. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2015-10-26-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give Mr Bitay Márton Örs the opportunity to speak out of line.
u2015-10-26-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, All I want to say about your last sentence is why do you say that as a farmer, you agree with this program? He said that as a farmer, he agreed with this program. He says he doesn't believe in it. Why don't you believe it? If you say you agree with this programme as a farmer, and we want to help farmers, then why do you not believe in it, dear Member? I think it's a very clear logic that you're making a good decision, wanting to buy land from this as a farmer in Túrkeve. Good. I wish you good luck with that. Start at the bid, buy it, but by the way, you're gonna beat almost everyone in the buy order. You're right to agree with him. The only thing I don't understand is why the politician's attitude towards his personal experience and his farming and farming attitude doesn't meet here in Parliament as we talk to each other. [[17.50]] We don't have to lie about our real feelings. If you have the feeling that you want to buy land as a farmer, buy it, there's nothing wrong with that. I would also like to ask you if you, your dear wife, or your business associates, who can start and buy land as a natural person, would not only be able to rent 237 hectares from the state, through your various interests, but also buy it. But I'd like that. Buy it, that's what the program is about. Local farmers buy these lands. They're going to take part in a limited bid. I'd just like to remind you of the case of final repayment. Everyone said that there would be less than a few ten thousand people to help, and then almost 200,000 people were wiped out. What I would like to say is that the land was also told at the farmer's programme that they would not really apply for this program, and I can show you an estate with 24 over-subscriptions; there was an average over-subscription of 3-4 times for each estate. There have been over 7,000 requests from the NFA over the last few years to buy land. What I don't understand is why we want to prove that farmers don't want to buy land. It is an elemental instinct, an elemental interest to buy the land, and a lot of people buy this land, even if they didn't, but their grandparents or their great-grandparents used it, it has a pre-love value, whatever it takes to finally buy this land. Besides, it is also very important for credit, everyone who requires credit for this programme will get credit for it, of course, and I think that this is the right thing, obviously, to meet the basic conditions of the banking procedure. The goal is to be able to buy. That's why the government says I'm giving you $1.95 percent interest to buy that land, dear farmer, and not only those who have capital, but I'm giving you money. With regard to job creation, I don't know, really, the dialogue of the deaf has already been spoken, not even in connection with our conversation, but I said five minutes ago: the number of people employed in agriculture - KSH data - increased by 10 percent compared to 2010. Now, why are we trying to tell you that there's never been any results before, and there won't be any results? The preconception, the starting point is wrong. So far, there has been results, and there will still be results, and we hope that there will be more results. But of course you're right, we'll see what the results of this program are, but it's all about... So we are arguing that the opposition is trying to convince the government not to give the land to farmers. What kind of crazy story is it that we have to convince ourselves or at least try to buy the farmland from the family? ! Why wouldn't we give it to you? Why don't we just say that you can order and buy this land that they're using right now? Don't come with social cooperatives, I'm asking you very nicely, because their lands are not in this sales program. We're gonna talk together again. What the state's putting into asset management is not in this program. It's got what he's letting me rent and commissioning me what the farmers have been using. Yeah, not all of them, because before 2010, the big plants. Yeah, it's got the dirty 12 in it. But now the problem is, I tell farmers to buy the dirty twelve lands, raise the rent, farm their children, their granddaughters with this land? Well, let's not make fun of each other. That I have to convince you that farmers will receive the land at a public auction under legal conditions? ! Shouldn't this be the other way around? I don't know who he's giving it to, but he's finally giving it to the farmers he's always owned in history. We're standing here talking, I don't know how many hours the government's been trying to give the land to farmers, and the opposition is doing everything they can to make sure that we don't give the land to farmers by chance. I do not know what the common denominator of this dialogue can be, because we cannot allow ourselves to increase the competitiveness of family economies. We want you not to rent it, but to use property. It is presented by opposition representatives, your fellow Member, the congresswoman, what rents the state has taken from this and how much good things could be used for. But I beg you, if I don't get the rent, who's gonna have the 12 billion? The farmers. I'll leave it to them not to pay rent. And I have to convince you that we are talking about the fact that, but the opposition is demanding that the farmer does pay rent to the government, and the government stores these funds as a system of the central budget. Again with the lack of reading, I don't know what to think. It is included in the government decision expressis verbis, point 2: the proceeds from the sale of state-owned land can only be used for the development of Hungary - here you have already left out your share, but I am now reading it - and it can be used to increase state wealth. That's what it says. What do you expect us to do? It's just described by the government that it can't be used for operational purposes, it can't be expended, it has to be turned into state property. For the record, the National Earth Fund Act is also a pandan, he also says that if the National Earth Fund has revenue, then it must use it for state property restructuring. [[Gábor István bellozó: For the enrichment of land!]] Forgive me, Congressman, I have also listened to you, but I hope you do not dispute that the land is also a property. So what I'm talking about is the subject here, the claim is that we use the proceeds to function, while there's a two-thirds law that says no, and there's a government decision that doesn't. So I can't help it if you don't read the legislation, dear Member. I'm asking you very nicely, just in order to be able to talk about the substance, which is an objective fact, written down in law, let's not argue about it because it's in it, it doesn't have to be deciphered. Let's talk about the rest of it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A two-minute circle follows; first, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, MP Jobbik.
u2015-10-26-241	Mr President, Dear House, No one would have a problem providing land to farmers working in small farms, but that is not the case here. Our Fidesz fellow Member has rightly objected to the fact that, together with the support, the land was also given to experimenting with the introduction of the SPS system. At the moment, you are doing the same thing, because the rights of use are the same for the land sold, so, according to the agreements concluded for 18 or 36 years, let us think about which small farmer will be able to make an investment, if appropriate, where his real benefit will only come after such a timeline. How can you compete with the capital that you simply cannot do at such a disadvantage? But the most outrageous thing about this debate is that here they start to argue about what revenue comes from the entire sales process and how they are used. The fact is that we are talking about a strategic asset worth 500 billion, some people say it is estimated to be worth this value, it is damaging Hungary, and in terms of the budget, we were talking about expectations of 240 billion. We do not know whether the volume of the unpaid rents has been measured, calculated in this system - not in my view - but it is outrageous to explain in itself what a one-off income they can expect, because we know the fate of these funds, whether they have been strapped or not, since the situation of the private pension fortune system and since the claps there, we cannot be calm, so we are post-judicated, and on this basis we do have preconceives. Did it say here from the fidesz benches why, then the land belongs to the Hungarian Holy Crown? And I say that, yes, the Hungarian Holy Crown should have the land, rather than that, let there be a system where it guarantees... [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] We're not gonna nationalize him. [[Balázs Győrffy: He just said it!]] only we have a history of more than a thousand years, which you might want to know better, because it was the only system that guaranteed the long-term safety of Hungary, and similar games, where you cannot guarantee where the new owners will continue to dump the land in ten or twenty years' time, it excluded it, and most of the new owners will not be a small farmer, but the large capital against which Hungary has historically always fought. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-10-26-243	Dear Congressman, You're saying we don't support the little ones. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I didn't say that, but I said the same thing.]] I'd like to remind you that out of the 50,000 local map numbers, 41,000 under 10 hectares. Who does that favor? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And the rest is how big?]] But I'm sorry. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's put the rest aside for a moment. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Forgive me, I just don't want to disturb you with all the numbers, because you obviously can't handle that little. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Z. Carpathian to the lines of Fidesz: Clap your hands!]] Out of 50,000 landmarks, 41,000 are under 10 hectares. Who benefits from the sale of land below 10 hectares? Are you in favour of large factories, dear congressman? But let's go on, let's take a look at it from the 380 thousand hectares to the ha: more than half of the 380 thousand hectares are under 10 hectares, which we announce. I hope we can record these numbers, Congressman. Well, who does it help when I give 200,000 acres to small estates, family farms? Goddamn it! And we're arguing again with you, the Jobbik, who's attacking the Earth Traffic Act, which is our only law to protect the soil... [[A statement from Jobbik: Let's not joke.]] Just a second. I understand your anger, but I'm asking you to limit yourselves. [[18.00]] Then they will attack the land sale programme at the Constitutional Court by concluding that Hungarian citizens can buy and this does not comply with EU legislation? Oops! Are we talking about you attacking the Constitutional Court, Jobbik? Your objection is to limit the authors to Hungarian citizens and then stand up and say anything in Parliament about the sale of land? Well, dear Congressman, much more modesty. The HUF 500 billion [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik and Fidesz.]] the 500 billion forints you say are some experts... [[Constant noise and interruptions.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I'll wait until I get a little help so the congressman might hear my answer. [[Noise and constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] So I think it is a field treason to attempt to prevent the final vote of the Land Traffic Act, just as Jobbik would like to exclude Hungarian citizens from buying land for the benefit of EU citizens. By the way, the 500 billion forints, which you kindly did, dear Member, I would also like to point out to your attention, you say very sweetly, according to some estimates. Well, according to some estimates, 500, other estimates are 300, and a third estimate is 900 billion forints. But what I'm telling you is that the budget has HUF 250 billion on this, otherwise it doesn't include the 250 billion. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Talk about the remaining 11 thousand parts of the land. Let's not talk about the three thirds, let's talk about the two thirds.]] We don't have the 250 billion, we just don't know how much of this we're gonna sell anyway. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Talk about the remaining 11 thousand parts of the land.]] I would therefore like to remind you once again that the Member is shouting to talk about the remaining two thirds, so let us take a general arithmetic question. If we advertise 380,000 hectares, 200,000 acres of small estates, is the 380,000 two thirds of 200,000 hectares? Don't throw numbers at me. Well, read it once. Check it out, and then stand up, and ask for a voice in Parliament if you can protect the Hungarian soil and not attack the farmers, and not help Brussels by canceling the land traffic law! I am curious about the St. Crown teacher, and I look forward to the Jobbik saying that in Hungarian he wants all agricultural land to be state property. I'm asking. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: The two are not the same!]] I'm sorry, I'm asking if that's what you want or not. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not the same thing!]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: The two are not the same!]] Excuse me, I ask whether this is what you want or not (Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's not the same thing!) . Don't take this the wrong way. Be kind and change it. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: The two are not the same!) Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-244	Good evening, everyone. Here, at a specific stage of the debate, we will continue with two-minute comments. Congressman Gábor Bellozó in two minutes, MSZP, here.
u2015-10-26-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I can only continue to conclude that, since there is no valid reason why you want to sell the land beyond serving private interests and not being able to list any public interest here, you are constantly slipping and lying. Your last example was the National Earth Fund Act. The National Land Fund Act states that the proceeds from the sale of state land can be used to increase state land, to buy land, and that your decision is to increase state wealth. Dear Secretary of State, it is not about the state's wealth, it is not about the move of Viktor Orbán to Castle or the Liget project to be financed from the sale of state land, but about the increase of state land. But the others came in line with your slide. I would like to say to György Balla and to the other young democrats that obviously everyone starts from their own life experience. Well, I wasn't talking about communism, I couldn't have talked about it because I don't have any experience. I was talking about the Netherlands, where, for example, I obtained a degree in agriculture, where they could provide hundreds of thousands of jobs in a leasing system and in a cooperative system, because they and the Austrians, while we have completed the cooperative system in Hungary, have built their own cooperative system and can provide a lasting, predictable livelihood for people living in the countryside. As for young farmers, President James also spoke about this, Mr Secretary of State, you said that in the rental system 1500 young farmers were able to rent land, and then when they had to bid and put tens of millions of dollars in just to ensure their self-esteem, and then they had to take on a huge loan. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How many young farmers, starters will be able to do this? (The President indicated the end of the time by jogging the bell. ) What they're saying is a lie!
u2015-10-26-246	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bitay asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-247	There will be an enjoyable debate here in Parliament. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: It's debate day, isn't it? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's why we're here!]] Dear Congressman, I would like to put the allegations behind one another. The statement made by the opposition was that this revenue was raised by the state. That's what I said he couldn't live up to, because the National Earth Fund Act is also clear. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Pension!]] He can't live up to it, because the National Earth Fund Act is also clear, plus the government resolution. There can be no dispute whether or not it can be used to function, because any legislation I look at, both say that it should be used for asset enhancement. Now that land is or isn't land is obviously also a very important issue [[István Gábor Bellozó: Yeah, you don't care! Oh, I see.]] I just want to say that the claim that you're using it to work is not exactly true. Young farmers do not benefit from this programme because they have to hire tens of millions and indebte themselves. Well, that's classic big-time thinking. You expect young farmers to apply for hundreds of hectares, at least that follows, because if you apply for a 10 percent share, let's say 100 hectares, you have 10 million forints. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Not a tenant! Just the truth. Noise.]] But that's not what we're talking about, Mr. Congressman. We're talking about the fact that most of the land is already under 10 hectares. So for a young farmer, who holds a gun to his head to try to buy land for hundreds of millions? Well, he's gonna buy a 10 acre and a 20 acre, and I don't know, he might try another 15 acre. I add these together, and the total amount will not be HUF 10 million, not only will the share not be HUF 10 million, dear congressman, but the total purchase price may not reach HUF 10 million, although the prices are highly calibrated so that the state can't be charged with irresponsible management of wealth. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: He will not make a living!]] So let's not slide. Tens of millions of forints are needed by the young farmer when he is applying for hundreds of hectares. But if you're looking for hundreds of acres, you're right to reach into your pocket and put tens of millions of forints there. But that's not what we believe. We think a young farmer will apply for 10, 20, 30 hectares. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: I already have the list!]] That doesn't take 10 million forints, Mr. Congressman. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-248	We'll go back to the two-minute comments. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Font Sándor, is next. Here you go. [[Noise and constant interruptions.]]
u2015-10-26-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-10-26-250	Excuse me, Congressman, let's not have alternative parliaments. I'm happy for everyone, but it's Congressman Font's turn. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, my fellow Members' private conversations have left many of us off the subject. Allow me to turn back to Sallai R. Benedek, the question of responsibility, and whether we dare to take the consequences, he tried to make a logical argument here. In short, I would just like to note that governance itself is a responsibility, and this is classified at some level every four years. For now, Fidesz governance and this responsibility have been double-positively rated. The third may not succeed, but we think that those who get to the ground, for example, agree, and even those farmers, seeing the 70,000 per hour plus 140 000 per minute interest in the information sheet, this means that these farmers think that this is a program worth paying attention to. [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] You told me that if you came here in five years and brought me a statistic, what would I do? Then I'll congratulate you because you've re-elected. I don't know what to do with your data back then. However, I would like to turn back to Nándor Gúr. My apologies, his speech is very old, but I have been here since then, he said that between 2002 and 2006 sensational GDP data had preceded current Fidesz GDP data between 2010 and 2014. That in itself is statistically true, brilliant. He forgot to add one little thing, that the country was indebted hard. In English, the GDP growth [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] no need to smile, it was tragic, my fellow Member, because in 2002 debt was 58 percent, in 2006 it was 67 percent and in 2010 it was 83 percent. [[Noise. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where are we now?]] That's the price they were able to spin. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] . Fifteen seconds later, Mr. President, I'm forced to do this, but I'm going to take advantage of it. At the same time, the balance of public finances was between minus 7 and minus 9 per cent, and in our case it is known that we have put the budget deficit below 3 per cent all the time. [[Noise and interruptions from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] Now, that's genius for the current government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that it has achieved GDP growth in this way, rather than harming our public finances, which has led to a reduction in public finances. [[Noise and constant interruptions.]] You're referring to growth. We can argue hours in this, they're wrong. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[18.10]]
u2015-10-26-252	In this two-minute session, the final speaker is Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, Mr Font, to the fact that the MSZP was voted twice in 2002 and 2006, but you say that there was no good governance. So I don't want you to think that if someone is voted twice, the indicator is that it's doing good governance right away. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: They even amended the election law!]] Let me tell you something else, you say the farmers agree. Yeah, that's what the Secretary of State said. Then, please, let us play as if it were democracy and count on the 250,000 people who voted for LMP, the 800 thousand who voted for Jobbik, the 1 million 200 thousand who voted for MSZP. There was no social consultation in this. Let's make a referendum on him. I promise that if the result of the referendum is to sell the land, I will speak no more in the press or anywhere against it. Let's do it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They dare not!]] If you think it's so socially supportive! Why wouldn't they dare if you think it's such a good program? In the same way, what can be said on a regular basis [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Like Sunday closed!]] Mr. Secretary of State Bitay said that as a farmer, I said that I agree. Of course! The Matolcsys also agree with their own salary, because they say that they are Hungarian people, they work for it. What I'm talking about is that if I want to represent farmers, of course, farmers get caught up in the opportunity. But I represent farmers in order for farmers to retain their community property. Because you're pretending this land belongs to a few thousand people. No! We protect the interests of farmers, the interests of our children, and all the shopkeepers, all the hairdressers and all the people living in the countryside who are equally owners, and they want this land to remain in common ownership. You tell me, Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs, that the Land Traffic Act has not been voted by Jobbik, and this is treason, or I don't know what great words you have said here, treason. Please, if you're so convinced that the land traffic law is good, then you don't have to cheat the land right now. If you think he's capable of protecting the land, there's no need to privatise. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: We won't!]] It's not a good time! Your legislation is not appropriate, and this programme is not suitable. It is appropriate for the state to retain and retain ownership rights in its assets, and now together with Fidesz, the land is protected by a disposal ban. This could be a solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-26-254	Thank you very much. We will return to the list of speakers that have been announced. Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz! [[Moore from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought today would be an instructive debate day, and I think it's a shameful debate day. It's a shame, because today is a very clear day in terms of who's interests are protected. Some of the foreigners [[Zoltán Grimlock: Have you all written this question down?]] Some of the big owners, some of the speculators. The government and the governing party alone protect the interests of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian land in Hungarian hands. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Lőrinc Ripper!]] My fellow Members, it is absolutely incredible that Parliament cannot agree on one thing. Hungarian farmers and Hungarian land are not right-wing or left-wing, but Hungarian. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Ten million people! György Balla: That's right! That's what we're talking about. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Ten million citizens!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gábor Bellozó and other Members have made several threats to farmers. [[György Balla: That's right! Zoltán Grimlock: To the speculators!]] My fellow Members, aren't you ashamed? [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: No!]] Politicians in leadership position, ex-ministers of state threaten the Hungarian people? [[Zoltán Pride: No! Speculators!]] The Hungarian representatives? I would like to say to Mr Bellozó that it is possible to go, of course, to go to the auctions, but to look the Hungarian farmers in the eyes of those benches, it will take thick leather. [[György Balla: That's right! Zoltán Grimlock: Says a melon napper!]] Ladies and gentlemen, When you were in position in the benches of the MSZP, only in my area, in the Jászság region English and Italians, Honourable former Secretary of State, were on 15 thousand hectares. They didn't farm, they ran wild! [[Zoltán Grimlock: And when did they start?]] When you were Secretary of State, why didn't you stop this? With all due respect, during your undersecretary of state, how much profits did they get out of the country, how much AKG funding did they get out of the country? Why didn't you represent the interests of MSZP farmers then? Why did you let them take the profits out of the country? [[Zoltán Haughty: You can't stop it either! You've been paid off!]] And, fellow Members, we could also use examples that you defend and represent today. Allow me also to give you an example of jazz: In the area of Szellőhát, an Italian does not allow farmers to enter his land on the Hungarian land, without having a pre-lease right. He has Italian security people guarding the Hungarian land from the Hungarian people. That's what you represent! You, fellow Members, are defending this! [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Oh, my God! Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: Bullshit!]] Dear Congressman Haughty, Do you know what to be afraid of and what to defend against? Exactly against your point of view! Honourable Congressman Gógös, when, with all due respect, you say in a hypocritical way that you have defended and defended the interests of the Hungarian people [[Zoltán Grimlock: Your employees!]] Then please allow me to quote you from your time. Congressman, 2007. Parliamentary Protocol of 29th month V, quote: For example, a resident family farmer in New Whiteton made a bid of HUF 620 thousand against the announced price of HUF 295 thousand per hectare. On 15 November 2006, the National Land Fund Manager declared him a winner. The applicant also made a regular transfer of the HUF 10 million advance. However, the State Secretary of the Ministry is Agro-City Agricultural Zrt. annulled the application by its representatives on the grounds of the Land Policy Directives. [[György Balla: Shame! Zoltán Pride: Only it wasn't me!]] According to the NFA assessment, they are not a pre-emptive right either. [[Zoltán Pride: Because we couldn't sell and consistency wasn't a shame!]] either in respect of the legal relationships they submitted, they did not comply with the invitation to tender. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Pride: You didn't have to! We didn't sell it! Dr. László Varga: You're not talking about the point!]] But the Secretary of State has agreed to give it to them anyway. Dear Secretary of State, this is the robbery. That's my buddy shit. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What? I didn't let him sell it! Nobody!]] And you controlled it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bellozó, you can rely on your age, you can rely on your failure to participate in the communist attic sweep, the only problem is, you know, that they represent the same approach: to take, take, and give to your friends. Honourable Member, the Communists [[Gábor István Bellozó: Are you telling me this?]] They were sweeping the attic. When you were on the government, you took 50,000 hectares of land as part of a program for life on Earth. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Look at your gasman buddy.]] 50,000 hectares have been taken for the life-support program for the Earth. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Old people were happy about it!]] And, fellow Members, do you know what you have done with this land? [[Zoltán Haughty: Neppers like you!]] Dear Congressman Haughty It's a relief. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] He didn't come home for his sniper rifle. But at least do me the honor of hearing me out. [[Dr. László Varga: You're very witty! Zoltán Grimlock: I never had a gun, I never will.]] Congressman, they took 50,000 acres of land from farmers. Congressman Haughty, do you know what they've done? He gave it to a man. You gave it to István Lajtos. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What?]] Do you know how he gave it to me? A third of the land lease. [[Zoltán Pride: Me? Did I sign it?]] What's this if it's not covert support for your friends? He gave it to a man for a third of the market price. Two hundred acres for one man! And in total, this man received a state grant of HUF 370 million. One million forints a day received state aid! [[Zoltán Grimlock: We gave nothing to anyone!]] And, honourable Member, when you talk about what jobs these people have created, the state has made it out of taxpayers' money. Because he's these people at 370 million... [[What's wrong with that?]] - with a state grant of 370 million. [[What's wrong with that?]] Congressman [[Zoltán Grimlock: They created me! Isn't it?]] ♪ You're ♪ [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many have you created?]] They took it and gave it to a man. [[Zoltán Grimlock: One?]] Ladies and gentlemen, The credibility of the speakers makes me wonder. What interests do LMP politicians defend? Are you protecting the public interest or self-interest? Because, fellow Members, believe me, the incomprehensible thing is that someone is leaving in the country, he wakes up to be a farmer, and when he comes up to Pest, he's a politician, and when he goes home, they ask you something in the pub, and you ask him back, and you ask him now as a farmer or as a politician. Such a two-faced approach cannot be represented! Ladies and gentlemen, [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about closing on Sunday?]] The LMP politicians are not even able to respect political diplomacy, so that anyone involved would be better off keeping quiet. [[18.20]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, let's get this straight. What is it that hurts the LMP politicians? One thing hurts the LMP politician, Róbert Sallai Benedek, that since 2010 he has received only HUF 100 million in state aid. What hurts him is that he could only lay his hands on 237 acres of land, even though he was looking for 2325 acres. My fellow Members, are we making arguments in Parliament that represent self-interest? Do you represent self-interest in the public interest? My fellow Members, I am sorry that Robert Benedek Sallai is not in there, but one thing has to be understood: for him the grapes are sour, he is slowly reaching his goal. Ladies and gentlemen, Robert Sallai, I quote Benedek from his own diary with respect. The diary of a starting oligarch [[colleagues: Csányi, Gyurcsány and Simicska]] Well, it's a little difficult to get up to this level, that's your problem. He himself writes in his own diary, as a starting oligarch, how he lives his days. [[Dr. László Varga: You have no sense of humor.]] I'm still quoting from him:. If I didn't get sanctioned by that damn MVH in a year, I'd have a chance to push the annual area up to 3 miles. I'm still quoting from him:, Since we don't even have a proper Béla Kovács, this is the only way Fidesz found us that I'm renting or not renting. Still quoting Róbert Sallai from Benedek:. A small party, a small oligarch. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Zoltán Pride: That's irony, in case you haven't noticed.]] As he puts it, I'm running my mouth, what else can I do from starting politician to oligarch? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear LMP Politics! Even if Róbert Sallai Benedek's name is the oligarch of LMP, they don't expect the government to protect his interests. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He wrote it for fools just like you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, How credible is the view of politicians, politics who always want to achieve everything by physical violence? After all, Jobbik took the presidential pulpit with physical violence in connection with the land law. He's taken over the Presidential Pulpit. The politicians of Jobbik referred to the fact that the land would not fall into foreign hands. The land law has been fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen, Is the land in foreign hands? It didn't fall into foreign hands, and it won't fall into foreign hands. Of course, the politicians of Jobbik also ask: whose interests do they represent when they are refurbished with each member of the opposition and each party? Whose interests were represented when the presidential pulpit was taken by force? Whose interests do they represent when they encourage government agencies to be taken by force? [[Zoltán Grimlock: You have 70 minutes to go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, You can be on anyone's side, you need to be clear about yourself and your constituents, whose interests you represent, but don't forget one thing. [[Dr. László Varga: Look at the title of the debate day.]] they can represent foreigners, speculators, capitalists, but in Hungary, on Hungarian soil, mercenary bread, believe me, tastes bitter. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: If he was fed to the goat, he'd die, that's for sure. Deterioration in opposition benches.]]
u2015-10-26-256	Thank you very much. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is the next speaker, MSZP. Here.
u2015-10-26-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Speaking of quotes here, I've prepared two articles, and I'd like to show you how this whole dirt dog started and when it happened on Fidesz' side. We will return to May 2011, when an interim election took place in my district, because it is very important that there was an interim election, and then Népszava reported on the situation in Kaba and its surroundings. May 26th, May 26th. 2011. There is a huge scandal in the area of Kaba, because people who seem close to Fidesz have received a total of thousands of hectares of public land. It is assumed that in the fall, those who are now temporarily cultivated will buy the land. According to a recording, they decided to distribute the land at the highest level. The history of the liquidation of Agroqualit, a company of local interest - this is Undoubtedly - has cultivated and cultivated the affected area for years. In the course of the procedure, the winding-up commissioner, in order to provide the basis for the payment of creditors, entrusted the company that had previously been a partner of Agroqualit with cultivation. In April, when the contract holder had already ploughed up and largely used the area, the competent public authority wanted the work to be stopped. The agricultural company was already well-known in the region, so many local farmers indicated to the regional authorities that they would like to continue to rent areas of different sizes. The competent county office has also compiled this list of claims, but they have informed him that the area should be given to others. As a result of the decision of the Supreme Court, Fidesz-related individuals were the main beneficiaries of the land distribution. Thus, the areas in question may continue to be cultivated by persons who have nothing to do with the municipality concerned. The producer-processing company, which had already cultivated the land - in order to avoid a major scandal - quickly agreed that the price of the crop already sown would be paid and that the crop would also be sold to it. This is interesting because they didn't want a bigger scandal on Fidesz's part, because it was an interim parliamentary election. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It complicates the fact that, according to our information, the Property Policy Council was also involved in making decisions on a professional basis. According to the sources of Népszava, there was a professional meeting where a Fidesz MP appeared. Of course, nothing is irreparable, since the lease is valid only until October of the year. However, the State will then sell nearly a thousand hectares under rather favourable conditions. Anyone who is good at this contest can take possession of the land. We're talking about almost 40 golden crowned lands here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thus, it is expected that only the current tenants will benefit from the future purchase. The beneficiaries include the brother of a fallen Fidesz mayor, the pro-government leader of a remote settlement, and a number of people known in local political life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You'll see a miracle. The moods cooled down in 2011 and in 2012 the following article will appear. on the 8th of October. [[György Balla: Which newspaper? Is that the word of the people?]] The police have received a complaint against an unidentified perpetrator for office abuse and other crimes concerning the audio material on which Béla S., the former head of the National Land Management Organisation, NFA, talks about the fact that the lease of state land at the border of Kaba in Hajdú-Bihar County was preceded by lobbying activities in the background, with reference to high-ranking Fidesz politicians. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Minister for Rural Development Sándor Fazekas, Lajos Kósa, Mayor of Debrecen, Róbert Rácz, Head of the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County, Róbert Sebestyén, President of the NFA and Fideszes Mayor of Imre Módos, Bihartorda. From the recording, which our informants also sent to our newspaper, it can be concluded that the land fund manager has not only made professional decisions. The existence of a voice recording is not new in itself, as this is where the whole case began on 26 May 2011. However, as Béla Sári reveals on the recordings, under the alleged pressure of certain influential farmers, the Fidesz-related persons had to distribute the land at higher political direction. Last year, all of this remained virtually unenhanced, which was due to the fact that the matter was still hanging in the air, and it could only be interpreted backwards in light of the fact that József Ángyán, former State Secretary, started the scandal about state land leases. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And then let's listen to some of this footage. On the recording, Béla Sári says, among other things, that I distributed it so that everyone got about 50 hectares in the order of magnitude. So I've divided the 1,200 acres among 21 people. It wasn't announced, there's a cultivation obligation for everyone who applied for it. .......................................................................................................................................... Meanwhile, János Nagy, the vice president, calls me, says that he just got out of the Ministry's door, and the order to get the Rs out to win is that 21 people get nothing. That's an order. .......................................................................................................................................... Then next week, Tuesday, another phone comes: the Rs are not winners, no decision was made, then on Friday. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then comes a longer part, in which Béla Sári talks about the work of the mentioned R.'s men in the fields in question, and does not stop working at the request of the office. [[18.30]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Meanwhile I got a call from Imre Módos about why you're there, can't you get the machines off the board? Well, I'll tell you what I'll do. .......................................................................................................................................... I have a machine gun at home, but you can't shoot the tractor out of the machines. I don't have the right to sign, I can't file a complaint for trespassing, I can't call the police, because I don't have the right, the President has the sole right, okay? In two minutes the phone will be ringing again, Imre Módos: I have now called Róbert Rácz and Lajos Kósa, and told him that you are of no use, and that I will report to Viktor Orbán on Tuesday. And then I went out on Saturday, I made a recording, I took a photo, it's on my phone, I'm calling R's guy, K, go downstairs, finish the job. They didn't finish the job. Róbert Sebestyén, president of Pest, came out on Sunday, and I drove the NFA car. He pulled out the I.D., I'm Robert Sebestyén, I'm the president of the NFA, and I'm calling you to, uh, go to the... oh, they weren't in their right mind. On Tuesday, the president called me and said, "Béla, I just got orders to terminate your job with immediate effect." Can I get up by 10:00 tomorrow? I'm going upstairs, he says, "Béla, I'm sorry." He just apologized for half an hour. They told me I was a communist douche. This was enough for Róbert Rácz, Róbert told Kósa, Kósa told Fazekas, Fazekas gave the order to Sebestyén with immediate effect without justification... Sebastian told me to go to court because they're gonna judge me anyway. But I didn't dare go because they're going after me anyway. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is why our informants reminded us of the recordings in 2012, because they were upset by the decision of the NFA in August 2012 regarding the land in Kaba. Sixteen Kaba farmers, joined together in four civil rights associations, applied for some 290 hectares of high quality land with more than 40 golden crowns. In addition to them, ten individual starters submitted their applications, so twenty-six farmers in Kaba expected to receive leases according to previous promises. However, before August 20th, each farmer in Kaba received a negative reply, but the great owner of Imre Módos, the Fidesz mayor of Bihartorda, was found on the ground on his recording last year. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, my dear Secretary of State, you can beat the table here in Parliament, so that the fields are now divided in Hungary, if we are close to Fidesz, then we get land. Secretary of State, this state land belongs to 10 million Hungarians. And you just told me inside the walls of this House that this money will not be lost. Where's that $3,000 billion pension money gone to? No one's gonna believe that for you anymore. You can exemplify, Congressman, that you have won two elections. They were able to win 2014 by amending the electoral law. Besides, they haven't won a single election since. So it would be good if you paid attention to the events of the last few months, and it would be good, Mr Secretary, if the 10 million Hungarian assets were not given to some people. You'll be asked to do that someday. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-258	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bitay on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, Thank you so much for sharing these thoughts with us. I would like to ask you two things, which I think you can decide on this debate. But before I do that, I have to point out to the electoral law that you must have made the same calculation that would have produced results based on the old electoral law and the new electoral law. One thing's for sure: Fidesz wins by both. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No one can know that, Mr. Secretary of State.]] And I'm sure you guys are way too far behind, no matter which method of calculation we choose. And here's what I'm gonna ask you. Can you tell me how many people used state land before 2010 in Hajdú-Bihar County and how many now use it? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Gábor István Bellozó: Is this the answer? That was a confession! Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Yes. That's exactly what it was.]]
u2015-10-26-260	We will continue with a series of speakers announced in advance. Congressman László Kucsák, Fidesz!
u2015-10-26-261	Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[István Gábor Bellozó to Dr. Márton Örs Bitay: This should have been denied!]] Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would like to begin with a finding. In the previous 8 minutes 55 seconds, we saw a kind of reading editorial action from the MSZP representative, presented articles from a particular daily newspaper, and then did not talk about the subject. So, if I may, I would like to begin by saying that today's debate is about selling state-owned land, dissecting measures to implement the programme for farmers. However, we cannot go without saying the objective review of the agricultural reform that started in 2010 and continues to date, as the land is an element of the process that has caused the output of agriculture according to the KSH data to continue to grow since 2011 and reached another record in 2014: the 2014 HUF 2410 billion emissions exceeded 2010 by 42.9 percent at the current price. The indicator measuring the production of new value in agriculture, the volume of gross added value increased by more than one and a half times over four years, plus 56.3 percent. It is also important to emphasise that agriculture is making a living for more and more people. The number of people employed in agriculture increased to 189 600 in 2014, which exceeded the 2010 level by 16,800 and 9.7 percent. There is a positive change in structure within agriculture, with a growing number of viable small and medium-sized production farms providing livelihoods for the farming family and its employees. According to KSH data, the number of individual holdings specifically producing the market increased by 49 percent between 2010 and 2013. As a result, their number exceeds 165 thousand. The figures show a similar picture in the various sectors of agriculture, with agricultural investments increased by 53.5 percent between 2010 and 2014 and 37,6 percent at the same price. In 2014 farmers spent a total of HUF 320.4 billion on development. In the field of livestock farming, the numbers are equally encouraging. The cattle and pig populations, the sheep and poultry sectors are also characterised by prosperity and agricultural exports have also increased significantly in recent years. Even despite the negative effects on the international market, there has been a continued positive change in the structure of exports and a further increase in the share of high value added products. In 2014, the proportion of total agricultural exports was 31 per cent of both raw materials and primary processed products, while the proportion of secondary processed products was 38 per cent. Between 2010 and 2014, the share of highly processed products increased by 6 percentage points, the share of primary processed products increased by 1 percentage point, while the raw materials accounted for 7 percentage points less of agricultural exports. Our goal was clear on the issue of Hungarian land already in 2010: as many Hungarian land as possible should be owned by the Hungarian people, as the Hungarian land is owned by Hungarian farmers in the best place, with those who cultivate the land. In 2010, 600,000 hectares of land owned by the State had 600 tenants. By the spring of this year the number of tenants has multiplied by ten. Since 2010, the government has given a two-thirds legal mandate to sell part of the state land. The National Earth Fund Act was voted in 2010 by the LMP and the Jobbik faction in addition to the governing parties. Since 1 January 2014, NFA has made the sale of nearly 5 thousand land below 3 hectares at the request of farmers. On average, hundreds of applications have been received monthly on state land for NFA in recent years. So there is a real land purchase demand and there is a legal power to sell part of the state land. [[18.40]] The new distribution of the land to the farmers programme started on 15 October 2015 and the first auctions will start in Nógrád, Heves, Vas, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and the capital on 16 November 2015 and the following week on 23 November in all other counties. Revenue from auctions and sales cannot be used by the State for operational purposes, so state assets can only be constituted by state assets, which the government will devote to the development of the country, so that no loss of assets can occur. Some thoughts related to the land, farmers and the way in which it is sold. The land concerned: 300-380 thousand hectares of public land, less than 20 percent of all public land would be sold. The vast majority of the areas are less than 10 hectares, 30 thousand less than 3 hectares. It does not apply to protected natural areas and to areas in forest cultivation, it may affect ploughs and pastures. In the current land sale programme, NFA does not sell protected natural areas, but Natura 2000 sites are sold in compliance with the relevant legal requirements. About 21 percent of Hungary's territory is considered Natura 2000. The majority of Natura 2000 sites are privately owned. Under the current legislation, with the prior agreement of the Minister for Nature Protection, any state-owned, unprotected, but Natura 2000 territory can be sold. The sale of Natura 2000 land is ongoing, with the Minister of Agriculture contributing to the sale or replacement of some 1,200 public land in Natura 2000 sites only this year. These were typically property under an acre. The change of ownership does not affect the fact that Natura 2000 is part of the network and the relevant management requirements, and should be managed in the same way in these fields after it has entered into private ownership. Of the properties planned for sale, 1865 pieces belong to the Natura 2000 network, 22 264 hectares of Natura 2000 area may be affected by the sale, which is only 10 percent of the total planned land already sold and sold. About the farmers affected. Only local residents, farmers, Hungarian citizens can participate in the program, only natural persons. Registered, registered at the auction sites, on the day of the auction, can be registered at the government offices of county-righted cities, with 30 days of preparation. It is possible to register in person and represented by the legally binding legal representative. For registration, you need to verify the local housing or plant within 20 kilometres, the quality of the farmer, the land not exceeding 300 hectares, and you can't even reach 300 hectares. These official certificates must be obtained in 30 days. 10 per cent deposit is required: each plot has a unique bank deposit account, 10 per cent of the starting price has to be paid by 12 a.m. on the day before the auction, which will be returned to the non-winning auctioneers within eight working days of the auction. There are about 102,000 farmers and 50,000 real estates, and there are 41,000 of them below 10 hectares. A farmer can own a maximum of 300 hectares under the Land Traffic Act, so who already owns 150 hectares can buy up to 150 hectares. How to sell. In the case of holdings below 3 hectares, the NFA shall publish, by means of a notice, the real estates and starting prices for which a written offer can be made in 45 days, at an open auction in the case of estates of more than 3 hectares, at a bid - the starting price is set at least 10% above the local market price, and there is no way down from that - at a bid announced in county-righted cities in the organization of government offices. 20 years of disposal bans, except legal successions, debit bans and state buy-back rights are registered. Exemption from the debit ban: if you do not take it from a preferential loan and want to charge it for the benefit of a financial institution, such as development credit. All information can be found on www.nfa.hu, with the cooperation of NFA and government agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, Our commitment is clear: we are fighting for the interests of Hungarian farmers, Hungarian agriculture, we are not delivering our national values to foreign interests, this is what makes the family economies so important to us stronger, this increases the economic importance of small estates and the competitiveness of the agricultural sector as a whole in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-262	Thank you very much. The representative of the Jobbik, Mr Zsolt Egyed, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all to respond to my fellow Member Pócs's speech, as he has just said, because he has tried to bring Jobbik to the news by saying that we want to nationalise the lands. Congressman! I assume that you are a good judge of Hungarian history, and that you are a Member of Parliament, so you are probably aware of the facts. Mr. Congressman, there has not been a single government in Hungarian history, except for you who wanted to sell the land of the state, and even if it was possible, these lands have been increased. Honourable Congressman, Jobbik doesn't want the land to be nationalized. What Jobbik wants is that the lands currently owned by the state should not be lost to the thirtieth of the dogs. But back to the original topic, I think that Hungary currently has two resources that are almost unique in the world: one is high-quality agricultural land and the other is our drinking water supply. I believe that no government has the right to touch this with any reason, because here we are not thinking in ten years and twenty years, but - I trust you are claiming to be a national government - we are thinking over hundreds of years of time, because everyone in this land, where we live now, wants Hungarian people to live with proper self-determination after a few hundred years. I think selling these lands is simply a sin. But let's keep going. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't live in a villa in Buda, I live in a village where people who work in agriculture live. Do you know what these people think when they hear that state land is being sold? They listed to me by name the three people from the area who will buy these lands, and all farmers feel that they will not even be able to smell them to buy land. And do you know why? Because, during their five-year government, Hungarian people have learned very well that if this government praises something or this government in the media suggests that something very good will happen, then the average working Hungarian person knows that he will make an extraordinary contribution to it. I'd like to go back to the past for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, You don't have to look at the big picture here, you just have to think about the tramps. You've taken hundreds, thousands of people's livelihoods to pay off some of your buddies' circles. The same thing is going to happen here: now they're pushing some sugar cubes - to make me stylish - for the entrepreneurs you'll be pumping into milk cows during the campaign. It's all about nothing else, and you guys just mentioned that you don't know what's gonna happen in 2018. We know and know the Hungarian people: you will be replaced by the Hungarian people for these actions, for the sale of the Hungarian land, because the rural people want a government who will protect the Hungarian land, protect the future of the Hungarian people and protect the survival of the Hungarian nation. What of the two parties in this Parliament, obviously, will be their choice? It will be the Jobbik, who will actually do so, and, unlike you, will protect the Hungarian land. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.50]]
u2015-10-26-264	A two-minute round of speeches will be followed, first of all by MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For more than two hours we have been listening to the socialist faction and the government side smear each other and list the crimes that have been committed against the Hungarian people in the last 25 years. We are very happy to hear this, but it would not be such a tragedy. Let us goodies not argue in favour of squandering the Hungarian land, how you have stolen the country in the last 25 years. Jobbik has been approached several times about the Ab submission. The object of this is only that we want the land to be included in the national wealth law as an exclusive, inalienable national property. Of course, we are not on the side of any foreign land purchase, and we have been the ones who have always spoken against it. By the way, it would be good if Minister Fazekas would have honoured this debate and not just seen it in the lead speakerial round. Minister said that land sales will take place according to the rules of the Land Traffic Act, which means in my understanding that any European Union citizen will be able to acquire these lands. That's what we're talking about. President Font is short on state land. If we accept this argument, then I do not understand why this little bit should be sold. If this is an area so insignificant compared to all the land, then I think it will strengthen our argument system and it would be good for the state to maintain at least this little. Most importantly, they are constantly referring to farmers. I don't mean to be personal, and I don't mean to offend anyone, but I wouldn't call Magos and the agricultural chamber a credible actor in this regard. There is nothing more evidence of this than today's debate when the leaders of both organisations spoke and argued on the side of the government. This cannot in any way be called an independent farmer interest representation. I really don't mean this to be personal, but that's not an argument for us. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-266	Congressman Gábor Bellozó is next in two minutes.
u2015-10-26-267	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, was your previous answer serious? When you are about to sell out the future of the Hungarian countryside, the answer to such an obvious corruption case, which you have said, is that others have also received land? ! Is it okay that they gave this to their friends in such a filthy way, but other people got land? And we're just gonna sit back and say that you're gonna do the land business that you just started, fair and square? ! Secretary S, while we're at it with that county, what about the Kehi study in Hortobágy? Orbán promised me a year ago that they would publish the Kehi investigation, the Kehi investigation, where out of 400 cases examined, the Kehi found in 98 that the land was being used to give to the friends. I thought, Mr. Secretary, if you mentioned Zsolt Egyed here, you would be able to press a button quickly, and then you would also be asking for the trade-off charges, because you were a member of the jury, and obviously, as a person concerned, you would be able to deny precisely why that was not an abuse. But I'm afraid he doesn't know that either, Mr. Secretary, and he doesn't know that either.
u2015-10-26-268	Everyone's wish is to be fulfilled so quickly: Secretary of State Bitay is next.
u2015-10-26-269	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I was only hoping that you might have time, my dear Congressman Bellozó, to find out a little bit what the number is in relation to the land of Hajdú-Bihar. Dear Member, in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, 15 times more people used state land in 2014 than in 2010. That's one of my answers, but you should know that exactly after you've investigated these lands. My second answer is that the land of the Hortobágy National Park has indeed been applied for by a lot of people, and a lot of applications have been received, and a lot of people have also won. Obviously, it was a problem that, in the past, when you were renting these lands, you gave 4-5 thousand hectares together to kfts and legal entities. I'd be very happy to give you the list that you should know from your own initiative. But, of course, in the case where any errors were found - four pieces - applications have been withdrawn and new applications are expected in connection with this case. As to what your fellow Member raised or read an article in a newspaper - although I did not see that newspaper article - I would like to ask whether you have filed a complaint if you have any information suggesting corruption or any irregularities. Did they? What happened to this? Did you file a complaint? Has it come to a final judgment, my dear congressman? I would just like to say that we should not accuse ourselves of cases where there is legal proceedings or, where appropriate, not even legal proceedings have been brought, because we have heard a number of criticisms from you where you have not made use of the possibility of pleading or filing a complaint, or have lived, but, in the absence of a criminal offence, you have rejected these complaints. So I would like to ask you not to make accusations on this issue. I say to MEP Zoltán Magyar regarding the Constitutional Court submission: I understand that he is trying to smooth the matter in the direction that this Constitutional Court submission consists of several elements. But it begins with your signature, Mr. Congressman, you are the first signatory in this petition, signed by the Jobbik faction, I show you. [[He's showing it to me.]] Zoltán Magyar, here is his signature - which is about you also objecting to the fact that the EU legal system and the Hungarian land traffic law are contrary to the rules of limiting the right to purchase only Hungarian citizens. Let us be clear: you claim that according to Jobbik, the problem is a legal obstacle that the government says only Hungarian citizens can buy. I respect that opinion, but I would just like to say that they should not take the false attitude that Jobbik is fighting for Hungarian people and Hungarian farmers. The Constitutional Court's pleadings are exactly the opposite. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise on the opposition side.]]
u2015-10-26-270	Again, a series of speakers announced in advance: Member Gábor Varga, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to tell you a secret that I came from where Gyula Illyés wrote a sociological study, a book entitled People of the Pustas, so I have plenty of experience of the things we are talking about right now. In the people of the Pustas, the beginning of November was described by Gyula Illyés as the time of pawning. This was about how the servants received their servant's book in November, and those who received his servant's book could continue to go on because they did not perform well. This was the end of the marketing year. I only told you this because I have a friend, a farmer from Sárbód, who will also live in November. In addition to cultivating his lands as a family farmer, he has an enormous number of rented lands. In November, he will start to pay rent in Debrecen, Gödöllő, Veszprém and Budapest, which is due to the owners. Today I talked to this farmer, and this farmer in Sárbógárd - let's call him Master John - said that instead of rents, he would very much prefer to pay back the loan for the land and cultivate his own land. According to his calculations, it is about HUF 250-300 million that Sarbugad will be less, but Budapest, Gödöllő, Debrecen and other places where these landowners live are so much richer. I am not saying that this is the reason why Dragonfly and our region are lagging behind, but you can imagine that if there really are 2 million landowners and there are virtually about 200 thousand farmers, then it is really possible what kind of withdrawal is taking place from agriculture, to which the state has also contributed. Now, on my territory, we have to pay rent between 70 and 100 thousand forints per hectare more than once, which is about the upper limit of land-based support, and now a lot of people are returning the rented land, not using it, not working on it, saying that it can no longer be paid. [[19.00]] However, those who here in Parliament are opposed to the programme for farmers, who do not really live and feel the country's Hungary and those farmers who really care about the land, their hunger and the kind of, let's say, centuries old, I do not say that they are millennia-old, but at least a hundred-year-old, which I think we should respect. At the time when the Chamber of Agriculture and Magos announced this state-owned land for farmers, these farmers provided us with their support. They said that in the event that their options allowed them, they would make use of it. Typically, I think my territory has huge state farms with long lease contracts. I am not convinced that this programme will be successful now, but otherwise we have little to say about it at the moment. That is why I would like to quote a few of the statements of the Prime Minister's Secretary of State at government briefing on 8 October 2015:.. But forgive me, let us wait and see what the farmers decide. So if a farmer wants to buy land from the Hungarian state, then we will open the door to this. But that doesn't mean that all the land will go up or that they'll all be auctioned because the farmer may not want it. And then he'll stay with us, and we can continue to rent him out. So we open up the possibility of buying land to farmers. That's what happens, and that's it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are having a political debate here today, and we are having a bloody argument about how and how we interpret it. Some people do this to national treason, some to deprive land of property, some to the last state fortune. I think it will become useless if these auctions take place. But in fact, I would like to migrate a little bit to a professional part and tell you what this loan program we have announced actually looks like. By publishing the loan programme, the Hungarian Development Bank aims to finance the purchase of the land by the successful auctioneers of the land sold to the farmers under the programme. The loan programme of HUF 150 billion aims at the National Land Fund Management Organisation's 1666/2015 on the measures necessary for the sale of state-owned land to farmers in the framework of the programme "The Land for Farmers'. the financing of the purchase of plots of land sold by auction pursuant to a government decision. The currency of the loan is HUF, with a maturity of up to 20 years. The interest rate on the loan is fixed for the first 10 years, 1.95 percent per year, of course, some said it was huge, some said it was a miscarriage. After that, participants in the credit programme can obtain credit with the highest interest rate rate available at that time. The repayment shall be made on a quarterly basis in equal instalments and the transaction interest shall be paid on a quarterly basis. The loan can be used by customers under a simplified credit assessment procedure. CXXII of 2013 on the turnover of agricultural and forestry land in the credit programme. a natural person entitled to purchase land under the law, who meets the criteria set out in the product prospectuses for the second phase of the growth loan programme launched by the Hungarian National Bank and the new phase of its replacement after 1 January 2016, and who is 1666/2015 as a single farmer or farmer and who is a successful auctioneer. a contract of sale with the National Land Fund Management Organisation for the purchase of a plot of land sold at auction under a government decision. The minimum amount of credit available is HUF 3 million and should not exceed HUF 300 million per client. If the borrower is the beneficiary of the plot to be purchased, or the future lease agreement on the plot, or the NFA Act 18. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 5 of Section 4, the amount of own resources required for borrowing is 10 per cent of the purchase price of the plot. In all other cases, the required own strength is 20% of the purchase price. The Hungarian Development Bank shall not charge any fees or charges other than the fee and the cost of recovery related to the late loans related to the late interest rate, the contract modification initiated by customers. The loan may be repaid free of charge throughout the duration of the contract. The Hungarian Development Bank will distribute the credit product through the branch network of Budapest Bank as a contracted intermediary partner. The loan programme is available in the entire network of Budapest Bank, at the sites of the first round of auctions, on the website of the MFB 14 branches in Budapest are waiting for customers requiring land credit. From 16 November 2015, after the first auction date, information on the loan and the conditions for its use can be obtained in the branches of Budapest Bank, on the website of Budapest Bank and MFB. My grandfather used to say if we didn't do anything, it wouldn't be a problem. I think that the policy of this government is not to do no, not to do nothing, not to do nothing, but to try to get the land to farmers as far as possible. I think this program is the right program in this circle. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman László Varga, MSZP, please.
u2015-10-26-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been talk of a number of abuse, a problem, a problem that has been defined here for the past five years in the agricultural sector. Only partially the Members who raised these questions received answers. And these are important things for a debate day like this to be said. I would rather mention the title of the debate day, and then I would like to say a few thoughts on what I think about this as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and as a representative of an individual constituency in East Hungary. The title is that of the private ownership of state-owned land. I was hoping that this would determine this debate day. I'm sure a lot of other things can be said. In this connection, I have been trying to collect my thoughts and memories of what happened in the countryside since the early '90s. Because we can think of many things about what the countryside was like before 90. We are happy, of course, that we can all be happy to live in democracy, but we all know that everyday life was easier and easier to plan for tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary and villages in the countryside. There were several reasons for this in our area, since not only agriculture had a means of sustaining it, but also, where appropriate, they were able to work in industrial facilities in regional centres, and they were able to work in the heavy industry to refer back to it now. In the early 1990s, for example, the heavy industry in Borsod County fell apart in a few years, and tens of thousands became unemployed. I could bring the mining here, which meant endurance, but the mines kept shutting down, and people were losing their jobs. The third large leg in this respect, which could have provided a livelihood in the smallest village, is obviously not only the cooperatives that gave people jobs, but also organised the community and played a decisive role in cultural and sporting life. In the early '90s, the position of the then right-wing government was clear, he wanted something else, he wanted to break down the cooperatives, and he wasn't exactly guessing what would happen next. [[19.10]] I am only saying this because I find that there has not been much progress in the place of these in terms of community organisation and employment. So the situation is, after all, I think that today, 25 years after the change of regime, it would be our job to think with the remaining state, municipal and community land, about what livelihoods can be made in Hungary of the countryside in the most disadvantaged small regions. I think that's what you need to think about. I would like to tell you that in the early nineties there was also a serious process of elimination in Eastern Hungary and obviously in part of South Transdanubia - because they have had similar problems there - but this process has grown to amazing proportions over the last five years. There are many reasons for this - obviously the free European labour market and many other things - but one thing is certain: if we do not do something very quickly to restore rural resilience in these areas, then there will be huge problems, and total parts of the country will be almost completely empty. I think that the right answer is social alliance, for example, not the way the Esos case happened. There have been good examples in our neighborhood before 2010 - for example, Igrici, when I talk about social alliances - that is the process that should be stimulated. There have been several individual proposals, initiatives - I look at my fellow Member, Gábor Harangozó, who is a big supporter of these types of programmes - and it is worth moving forward in this. But I have to say that there are settlements - and in my constituency I can quote more of these settlements, even Sajólászlófalva, Parasnya - where the mayors really wonder how the potential of public employment could, by the way, be combined with community-owned land to produce food, which can be reinvested and listed in local catering. So I think that there is also scope for progress in this regard. This should be coordinated in a more central way, and then community lands could be a means of sustaining the countryside. Not only do we need one or two good examples, but we need a number of examples, but we need to keep the land in community ownership, because I see - and it has not been very much said by you - that this system, which you are trying to build in violation of a government decision, all kinds of laws, even fundamental laws, will provide opportunities for a few. Of course, it will also provide opportunities for many well - feeling, clear - minded farmers, I will not rule that out, but these signs will also give the opportunity to speculate to many people who have suddenly become farmers and, by the way, crowds will be excluded from all possibilities in the countryside. That is, not to be excluded, because there is one option, or two: emigration, which is very high, or the number of days without any land ownership, without any independent perspective, for tens of thousands of people living in the countryside. So there may be farmers who will make good use of this, what you are doing, but a very large part of the rural population will be excluded from this story and even the opportunity to live fairly with community land. That's the biggest mistake of this story. It is possible to refer to all kinds of fundamental laws that, of course, income can be used for property enhancement, but, I am sorry, the Parliament passed a law on private pension funds, and I do not know what - because there was such a stage in the debate that compared these two cases - and recently there was a confession from one of their ministers that this whole story was actually a big fake, that the private pension fund money was certainly expended by the government you run, and that it actually squandered people's money, and that they could not count on individual accounts. I'm just saying that when you say that there are such guarantees in terms of income from the sale of the land, I'm sorry, it doesn't give us too much comfort. I am telling you that this story needs to be rethinked, and it is not necessarily a good thing that a politician's position is determined by his meeting point, because I think it is a lot more than that, and that we would need a series of solutions for what is happening in the Hungarian countryside. I would like to quote you - then you may be surprised who said it - to close my speech. For those living in the countryside, it would have irreversible, fatal consequences if the state land were sold by the government. We say that, we believe that, and we say that they should not do so, because we believe that this would destroy the last capacity of the countryside. The surprising thing, however, is that no one else has said this statement contrary to today's position - who now enthusiastically supports your proposal - than István Jakab in July 2007. I think it's worth being consistent. I would ask you to be consistent and to keep the Hungarian land fortune, this part of it, which you are about to sell, in public hands. Trust me, this is also the most serious guarantee that it will not fall into the hands of foreigners. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-274	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the KDNP Group has transferred the remaining time frame of the debate to the Fidesz faction. [[Interjections and sporadic applause in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] On behalf of the government, István Nagy, State Secretary asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-10-26-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the words of Mr Varga, who is concerned that the land sales currently under discussion will be at the expense of social cooperatives and that there will be no opportunity for social cooperatives to expand or survive. Once again, we would like to point out that these areas, which are affected at the moment in relation to land sales, are or are outside the social cooperative fields. The government absolutely supports initiatives that work very well in very disadvantaged areas, where it represents a livelihood and an income supplement for people, where the local government is also assisted by an area where institutional care, the provision of social institutions or schools can be solved by cultivation, but that is not why social cooperatives are important for me. It's important because it gives people knowledge. Because the knowledge of a lot of people is lost, how to cultivate my own garden, how I can make my own food out of my own land. Most of these people in these areas learn how to plant potatoes or onion or what to do with them. And if he learns it there, and then he takes it from the seed he will receive from this program at home himself, then we are already doing a great job of eliminating a form of poverty because we can provide people with self-sufficiency. Dear Congressman, I can guarantee you that the government will pay close attention to this. In all areas where there is a social land programme or a social cooperative or a public work programme initiative where public land is used and received for these programmes, it remains intact and continues to serve the purpose of helping people to make a living, self-sufficiency and develop at this age. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-276	Thank you very much. We will return to the speakers that have been announced. Congressman István Horváth, Fidesz.
u2015-10-26-277	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I expected a serious policy debate on today's debate, but instead of a policy debate, there is an unfair political debate on the part of the opposition, which is full of demagogic slides. In addition to a number of socialist comments, I would also like to highlight, where appropriate, the comments of Mr Zsolt Egyed - he cannot be here right now - which is a good example of how people can be misled in a constituency when he spoke about the fact that, as a rural person, he felt that people did not support the privatization of state land or the ownership of farmers. I would rather say not to mislead the people who live there for their own political gain, but rather to encourage the local farmer to run the bidding, acquire land, see an opportunity to privatise the state lands, and not try to visualize a demagogic enemy image. [[19.20]] So I ask the honourable opponents not to be afraid of Hungarian farmers, Hungarian farmers. I suggest you all go to the countryside, because I see that many Members have no vision of what farmers and farmers think about this land privatisation. It's easy to see from the office building in Parliament that this is not supported by people in the countryside. I live in the countryside, I talk to rural farmers, I talk to rural farmers, and I get the impression that they do, they do expect this bidding, they do, they do expect to have the opportunity to acquire land, they do expect to expand their economy, and they do, in their opinion, that this public land privatisation is in the interests of farmers living in the countryside. So I see clearly that you are not aware of the opinion of the people living in the countryside, and farmers in the countryside see an opportunity to develop family farms. You have created a demagogic political debate from an historic opportunity for rural farmers. You're talking about the fact that you're gonna be playing these lands for buddies, when it's clear to everyone that the land will be sold on a public bid, so to speak, on a public bid, and what's very important, and maybe this wasn't the case here, the bidding is one thing, but who's gonna get property depends on who's standing in the order of acquisition imposed by the land law. So, in the event that the bid has any result, but the neighbor farmer wants to acquire property after the posting, he has a pre-emptive option at the price that was highest at the bid. So the kind of vision that this land will not fall into the hands of the Hungarian people, and we do not guarantee the protection of this land for the Hungarian people, is also an absolute slide, because the people of the local farmers have the opportunity to acquire these lands in the first place. Secretary of State Bitay has already said that the claim that this is a waste of Hungarian wealth is not correct, because it is a law that these revenues, which come from the land license, can only be used for development and only for the expansion of state assets. So there is no such thing - I believe it was on the part of Congressman Sallai - that this is going to work and that the state will live up to it. It's also a massive slide, we know clearly that's not the case. What we are not talking about is that it gives many farmers in rural areas a certain degree of uncertainty about how they can expand their economies, where appropriate. A lot of people are thinking about investing or thinking about giving their children or grandchildren the wealth they produce or produce as first-generation farmers. Obviously, these investments can only be made with a calm heart if they know that property will remain in the possession of the family. And those laws on land purchase, bidding, or expectations, the fact that it cannot be alienated for 20 years, it cannot be burdened, it cannot be sold, it really does not give to customers, I think it is an opportunity, but for those who will carry this economy further within the family. I've talked to a lot of farmers who say that I'm 50-60 years old now, and I'm going to start this bidding, but I'm thinking that it's going to be an opportunity for my child and my granddaughter, because 20 years from now, he's going to be a 70-80-year-old man who's going to stop thinking about what other developments he might be making, but he wants to be able to give his child and granddaughter the right wealth, the right legacy and the right future. In fact, the biggest problem is that many rural youths do not find a certain opportunity for themselves in the settlement, and where these land-shopping opportunities are available, they will not refer to this fact, that the young people there would rather stay there if they could get to the ground and try to farm there, try to settle down there and try to create a value that will give them a real vision in the life of their settlement and in the life of their own families. And the kind of vision that the state actually has to keep the land in the hands of the state is that through this we will employ the rural people in social cooperatives, it is also a great hypocrisy. I don't think anyone who says that really knows what it means to be a social cooperative in the countryside: 40-50 public workers on 1-2 hectares. It is indeed right, as Mr Secretary of State Nagy István, that we need programs to teach people again to cultivate their own garden, because the biggest problem in many cases is that people have lost their own garden, self-determination, self-preservation, and that they really need these so-called economic social economies, but it is certain that a social economy in this form, on 1-2 hectares, will not give the rural people in the place any vision, because people want to grow in the long term, they want to teach their children, they want to live a quality life, and they will not really be able to solve this in the long term, with minimum wage and all kinds of social cooperative revenues. The social cooperative is a momentary social tension, a social problem, and I think it can handle it well, so this is an important opportunity at a given moment, but I think that in the long term only social cooperatives that can give people real income, can give real livelihoods for people living there and for people living there. By the way, I think that the possibility of confederation, or the possibility of social alliance, is not a matter of state property. There is still the possibility, where appropriate, for people to join forces for certain purposes, whether in terms of cultivation, the acquisition of machinery or in terms of more efficient operation, whether on a social basis, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, thereby ensuring the vision of their economy, their livelihood. I am asking that when we talk about these issues, they do not try to mislead rural people with such self-righteous, demagogical comments, especially those Members who otherwise have no insight into how people live in rural areas, and especially if they have not yet received the confidence of rural people, let us say, in an individual election, to ask you to represent them in Parliament. I think that first we need to win people's trust in a real way, and then we can actually represent them, but right now, with these comments, they represent themselves, their political visions within their own party, and they're trying to make some kind of political profit, but this, I think, is hypocritical and not about people. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-278	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-10-26-279	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for the sentences of individual MEP István Horváth, and I am pleased that you spoke about the slide; we hope that the slide will be less than Márton Bitay Örs He left the room. And just to mention two things, what the slide is, I'll tell you what the slide is. When you say, Mr State Secretary, that Jobbik is attacking the Land Traffic Act, it favours the European Union. Do you know what's in the Land Traffic Act? You brought the Land Traffic Act, and they say that in Hungary a natural person can buy land. That would be totally cool - just what else is in the Land Traffic Act? That you consider EU citizens and associated nationals to be domestic natural persons. What does that mean? 700-800 million people are considered domestic natural persons. Well, that's the slide. And the slip of letting go of his ear is that he was asked what role he had played in the traffikkuty, the role he played in that traffikker evaluation committee. Well, that's why we don't trust either Secretary of State or you, because that's what you guys do all the time and regularly, just like you've done in the traffikkuty. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The subject of today's debate concerns a matter of strategic importance, which can determine the fate of our country for decades, so it is the duty of every responsible Member of Parliament to speak on this very important issue, regardless of the personal beliefs of the worldview or party politics that govern it in everyday life. On today's debate, we must convince opposition representatives of our pro-government counterparts to refuse and, together with us, to prevent the efforts of government circles to seriously mutilate the state's land assets. [[19.30]] Let's look at government intentions at the level of communication. What does the government say? On the initiative from below, farmers wishing to sell 380 thousand hectares of farmland at the request of farmers. The aim of land sales is to bring small and medium-sized farms to land, so that they can become more competitive and stronger. That's what you say. These are beautiful goals. So there's a tear in my eyes when I hear it, but not from the touching, but from the anger I feel over the new transparent lie of the cynical, lying, hypocritical government. Let us recall, in 2011, when the government presented the public land lease system, the same goals were mentioned, and the same farmers were referred to. It was soon found out who these beneficiaries were, for whom it was so important to circumvent the right to use state-owned land at a much more favourable price and under easier conditions than the market. Since then, we have seen innumerable examples that the land lease system was a government-level doghouse with the highest interest. Do you think there are better goals behind the current land sales campaign than in the case of lease agreements? You don't really think that those decision makers who abused their power at the time, cheated the law by calling on dozens of stromans, have now improved and do not want to abuse their situation again? In my opinion, those who at that time have broken the law and have remained unpunished since then, will now be forced to re-implant the grating, the re-implanting of the actual farmers, family farmers, small livestock farms. Notice that property policy is an area of strategic importance for the country and the nation. It defines the rural capacity to maintain the population, affects the ability to generate income, determines the structure of agriculture, all measures that make a significant, major change in this area will have an impact for decades, whether positive or negative. Every rash, hasty decision, driven by a momentary low, personal, material interests, often causes exponential damage, whether it eliminates entire settlements or small regions. Let's look at comparison data so that people who might not care so much about the different agricultural issues and the ground can see what we are talking about. What does the $380,000 acre planned to sell mean? This area is about 7.5 times the total area of Budapest. The land under the hammer is close to 8 percent of the country's total agricultural wealth; more than 4 percent of the country's total territory, that is what we are talking about at the moment. The planned assets to be disposed of, the estates to be auctioned, are an important part of the state's assets. In my view, the efficient use of property elements and the proper use of property in accordance with Hungarian interests can include the sale, conversion or division of certain small real estate parts, so let's say that the maintenance of the public ownership of a few metres of land between two 20 hectares tables is indeed unreasonable, but the property must be preserved, the value should be increased compared to the possibilities, instead of the land fragment mentioned in the example, a similar or larger area should be purchased or replaced elsewhere. In the current sale process, significant facilitations and discounts are applied to the current tenants of most of the areas with the right to rent. Let us not forget that most of these tenants have concluded their leases in recent years under questionable circumstances. It is also worth noting that the majority of the areas for sale are the territory of the 12 former public economies, which were privatised by the Orbán government, which was registered in 1998-2002, and also in dubious circumstances, then only the companies and movable assets were sold, the land on which they were farming remained the property of the State. But it seems that at the request of my friends, the work is about to be completed by Fidesz. We must decide, we must take a stand here in this House today. It must be decided that without clear, written, clear land policy principles and objectives, public land cannot be lost. Regardless of the party position, it must be determined that, contrary to the interests of the nation, it cannot be alienated from agricultural land, driven by opportunistic goals. We do not need to create a new law for this, as the Fundamental Law also states for us. I call on my current pro-government fellow Members to look inside themselves, to listen to their conscience at least once, and together to prevent another attempt to rob the oligarchs close to the government, this is your responsibility. This is the Hungarian political, so-called elite's responsibility to protect Hungary's values and Hungary's agricultural land. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-280	Thank you. It's a two-minute lap. First, Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-10-26-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to put this whole story in a slightly different light. As a policy-makers responsible for natural resources, I have to say that agricultural land and drinking water are Hungary's last two natural resources, and they are strategic natural resources, and it is in the national interest to retain them under state control. After all, you are saying that you are waiting for the sale of this 400,000 hectares of agricultural land for about a few hundred million HUF, 300-400 million HUF, but let's see what the processes are in the world and what the processes are in Hungary. It is important to know that the world's soil is constantly dying, with 75 billion tons of soil on earth every year. We can't produce soil. It's a natural gift that if we destroy it, we put ourselves in danger, we put our own future at risk. One and a half million tonnes of organic material is also destroyed in Hungary each year. So this soil, this soil, is a treasure that, in a few decades' time or even twenty years' time, when this ban on disposal expires, will be worth ten times the current value, but it may be 50 times the current value, or who knows what other processes are still taking place in the world. So we are talking about a strategic state asset that must be preserved, because in the last 25 years, the parties on my left and right have already sold everything and robbed everything in this country. For years we have been saying here in Jobbik's benches that only agricultural land and drinking water remain as strategic national treasures, and this must be preserved at all costs. If you sell it, you can't keep it that way... - you say that it's only 10 percent of the entire agricultural land you're selling now, it's exactly because it endangers the living conditions of future generations if this land is sold. A responsible government doesn't do that, only a small, irresponsible, treasonous government can do that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-282	Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2015-10-26-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Font, I think that we should not go further into the story, because there is no need to talk about the 500,000 economic refugees, the confiscation of HUF 3000 billion, the tax burden of HUF 2000 billion plus tax revenue, and there is no need to mention that the amount of public debt has increased by 5000 billion. So, it doesn't make sense, because from this, I think it's a loser's way out on your part. Rather, I would like to insist on this issue, the issue of the earth, that since Secretary of State Bitay has fled, he has left, and has not responded either to Gorzsai Agricultural Zrt. or Start 2003 Bt. concerning his affairs, but not even in relation to the tacky points, then perhaps there is still a man of sufficient competence within the walls of this House, say my fellow Member Horváth, who might be able to say more about these matters than he has said about the cases in relation to the previous thoughts. One word, as a hundred, the revenue you hope for this case is 400-500 billion forints, and in respect of which it is now said that it will once again be the subject of national wealth, so with improvements it can only go in this direction, I have to say that you know that I do not believe this for you. I can't believe it, because in the way that the private pension fund savings of HUF 3000 billion have been applauded, they will at any time make a provision, a law that practically overrides everything and this fundamental thinking that is being proclaimed here in Parliament. So what I'm trying to say is that we're going to deal with this as we are with the confiscation of 3000 billion forints with you, as well as with individual pension accounts and everything else that you promised people, everyone, but you didn't make any of it happen. This is all about what you are doing, it's about the future of your friends and your pereputy and the sale of the future, as my fellow Member Bell said. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-284	Thank you. The representative of Fidesz, Mr. Jenő Manninger, is next.
u2015-10-26-285	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to respond to the Member before me because he always says the same thing, so I think that we do not want to react. [[19.40]] If you press a button, you stand up and say the same thing in two minutes. So I'd rather talk about the subject. I would respond here because there have been interesting thoughts and slides. Jobbik's representative accused government representatives of slipping. He says that we have provided it to domestic natural persons, to all of Europe. He knows that this is not the case, and he knows exactly what his limitations are. So the local inhabitants and farmers could get land and get land now. And you know exactly why you can't limit it the way he said it, but it's very nice. But what I can say is that Jobbik's programme remains that it is necessary to leave the Union, because only then can it be regulated in such a way. So let's just say that I think the government has done everything in its power to give the local inhabitants and farmers access to land. This program was also born in the spirit of it. When I think about Zala County, people do not have the problem that there are many state lands or few, but the problem is that the land is usually rented by people who are not locals - from a long time ago, on the basis of contracts from the socialist era. That way they won't get it in any way. For example, they cannot be rented by local governments. Local governments have an opportunity, and there are excellent programmes in public employment. It is true that this is more about fruit and vegetables, but there is the possibility. I believe that property creates value, and we can trust that sustainability does increase. The Socialist Congressman said that many people are excluded. Well, what I can tell you is there's more to it than there's ever been before. And that's why we're confident that the durability of the countryside will increase by one step. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-286	We are going back to the group of speakers that have been announced. Congressman Béla Dankó, Fidesz.
u2015-10-26-287	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thus, it is difficult to say new things at the end of the debate day, so it may sound familiar with what I am starting to say, namely that I am disappointed that we heard from them the panels written by the communication experts of the opposition parties, rather than a serious professional debate that might have brought forward the matter for which this day was set up. However, there could have been a lot to talk about, a very interesting question and debate could have been that, in the short term, it is likely that farmers would benefit from the possibility of renting a given land at a market price under a market rent rather than having to buy this area above the market price. However, we know well, at least those who have been farming among those present know well that the farmer never thinks in the short term, which is why the decision was made to give farmers who are farming an opportunity to buy land. We also know very well that we could talk about the problems that are caused by the small, often even less than one hectare, of the small areas wedged into larger land in farming. Here, even in machine use, I could also mention isolation, how much, how much trouble this causes, and how good it is to have a solution to this by buying these land. We've heard the figure of speech I've already mentioned, and it must have been invented by communication experts, that's what we need to talk about, that buddies are buying these land. I think whoever's in this room is sitting in this room right now, everyone's a reasonable person. I assume you all know that this statement is silly. There is no greater stupidity to be said, since the possibility of applying for these land with open bids is to be sold in open bidding, and it is not certain that it will be the highest bidder, since we know well that the pre-emptive rights in the Land Trade Act will be granted to those included in the list, this ensures that this claim cannot be true. It's a shame to keep talking about this nonsense. We have also heard that opposition politicians are concerned about the social cooperative. We have heard a lot of responses from the government that the areas of social cooperatives are not affected by land sales, yet they keep saying that as a problem. We've heard concerned politicians who fear for public employment. I find this concern a little false, for so far we have heard only abusive words about public employment. Now it has suddenly become the most wonderful program for the opposition. Perhaps it would have been nice to talk about more important things, to talk about them, although it has already been said that the credit facility, which we are also providing for this programme with the help of the government, is a great help to those who do not have the capital to start buying smaller land without credit. I think that this 1.95 per cent loan, which can be used for 20 years, for a long time, taking into account land purchases and average land prices and taking into account land-based support, can actually be paid from land-based support at an average price, which means that a sober-farming man, farmer, peasant will certainly think about it and will think that he would like to buy land under such conditions. I would also like to confirm my fellow Members, who are walking among farmers, walking around their own constituency, walking around the settlements, talking to farmers, farmers, I experience the same thing that the previous speakers have said, and I experience the same thing that farmers are interested in, farmers are looking forward to the launch of this programme. And to say the only thing I can tell you is that we're going to have 17 404 hectares. If you look at the details of the land, it's an average of 5 hectares, but we know that the average doesn't necessarily cover the full reality. Let's look at less than 3 hectares: 1946 parts of the land, which is less than 3 hectares. Here is the average of 1.1 hectares, for which about 21,000 farmers in Békés County are calmly applying, and I claim that very, very many of them will also apply. I very much hope that this programme will be successful. I very much hope that this programme will be successful, and I say this in the interests of farmers, who, I say again, are waiting for the start of land sales. And I think it is right that, when the government recognises this need, the host organisations have drawn attention to this, and the government recognises this demand, which is what it wants to provide. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-288	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP!
u2015-10-26-289	Thank you very much. I would like to add to my fellow Member, Béla Dankó, that what really saddens me is that opposition representatives had to initiate this debate day, so that we can talk about this dirt dog here in Parliament, and that you did not do it, since this is an important issue for you, as my fellow Member has said. I'd like to ask you a lot of questions right now, citing the sentences that many of your fellow Members from the Fidesz-KDNP are saying at press conferences. I regret, therefore, that Secretary of State Bitay Márton can no longer be here, because he is very fond of these sentences and squirts of words. Our problem is that we feel that most of these sentences are lies. I hope very much that István Nagy, Secretary of State, can reassure and deny these simple sentences, which are probably written down by their communication experts, that this must be said, because then people will believe that they are not trying to steal the land, the Hungarian land, the Hungarian property. The land belongs to whoever is doing it, said Sándor Fazekas on October 11, 2015. We feel in this that there are 20-year-old and 50-year-old leases in place for public land at the moment. If it's not for the tenant, it's not for the man who's doing it, is it? [[19.50]] In fact, whoever's doing this can be even more insecure than he was before, because he's gonna be facing a private owner, isn't he? In this situation, these people, we think, in this case, the land will not belong to the man who makes it. The following statement, which Sándor Fazekas and his fellow Members have said several times in several press organisations, is that they want to sell the land to family farms. Compared to what we feel, what's happening right now is that real family farms won't be able to get into the bidding, because they're gonna have a really hard time putting down even the 20 percent share. That's what an average farmer can't do for the land, which he'll be able to use in 18 or 37 years. In fact, it's only worth buying for tenants, speculators and stooges, who really want to farm on it, isn't it, because by the time they can really farm, that's a lot of time. Local farmers are allowed to run. This is a unique interpretation of the Hungarian language of Fidesz, which we see now, because it is said that residents must live within 20 kilometres, but this is understood from the local border to the settlement border. In the case of a settlement with a larger external area, this can mean a distance of up to 35-40 kilometres. This is a typical example, Mr Gábor Varga, who knows the area as well as I do, that for example, a land in Kishantos can be bought from Dunaföldvár. This is indeed a distance that can no longer be said on the basis of the Hungarian language and the use of the Hungarian language, that it is possible to classify as a resident a person who might be in Dunaföldvár and, say, Kishantoson could buy land at the moment. What they still say is that we have to sell the land quickly so that foreigners don't buy it. This is a month and a half from now, and if it wasn't for this debate, they would have quietly tried to blow this whole dirt dog off. What we feel about it is that it ensures that the foreigner does not buy the land if it remains state-owned. No one can force the Hungarian state to sell its land until a private person can do it at any time. I would also expect this to be the defence of the Hungarian state, which the Hungarian people may feel is their own, because they live in the territory of the Hungarian state, or it is when these lands are in private hands. It's just small fields, isn't it? We've heard that a lot. 40,000 geographic numbers are 40,000 hectares, which is part of the small fields. That is what the Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs, said, is that it is 41,000 localization numbers that mean the small fields, but there is still this area of 9,000 geography, which means 240 thousand hectares. In any case, we're talking about an average of 26,000 acres of land. I don't feel like one of the little ones, it's 26,000 acres. [[Stephen the Great: 26!]] 26 acres. But two thirds of these areas are made up of high-quality and large-scale farms of some time. For example, the lands of Kishantos. What we can see is that the land is owned by Hungarian farmers, and in the best place, because the Hungarian state does not cultivate it. This is also a new language renewal for you, however you look at it, because they are as far away from the Hungarian master as Mako Jerusalem, as they say. And what really stunned me most as Tolna County is that our fellow Member István Horváth talks about people's trust and hypocrisy, who, by the way, in our county, however you look at it, is called the godfather of traffik distribution. [[István Horváth: You can only slide in this! How many choices did you win? The president's ringing the bell.]] The question, my fellow Member, is how many people have listened to the recording that you called a private conversation, where all we could hear was that the man who could win the tobacco store in the traffikkuty must be on the right, right, my fellow Member? The only problem I have is that people don't believe you because there are recordings like that, because these recordings come out of your mouth. [[István Horváth: Be modest!]] They don't believe themselves, and they don't believe that they're not gonna give the land to their buddies anyway, because they're afraid they're gonna say it again in private conversations like this, that they're just gonna have to be right-wing in order to win. [[István Horváth: Who has been elected?]] It's just that now you're pretending to be more than just a right-winger, you have to be a good buddy, 'cause bad buddies are gonna be wiped out. [[István Horváth: Member of the List! Zoltán Grumpy: Are you nervous, Pisti? You can be after that.]] It doesn't hurt us, it's okay, you know, because they don't believe you, because people are sitting in those lines with no credibility. [[István Horváth: More respect!]] Because there are people sitting in those lines who claim to have a private conversation with someone who just falls out of their mouth to be on the right. Ladies and gentlemen, The most beautiful really is what my fellow Members here in the benches behind me have called my attention to the need to consult Sándor Fazekas with the Minister for the Environment in order to sell Natura 2000. In any case, did Sándor Fazekas sit down with himself and agree to sell Natura 2000 sites? It's a total drama! I'd really like the Secretary of State's answers. I'm so sorry that Bitay Márton Örs is no longer in the room. [[Robert Szigó: He's sorry too!]] He can't answer these questions, he ran away from the Trafi. But there's still someone who can answer it, but he's not gonna do it because he can only yell at you and otherwise hand out tobacco stores to people on the right side of private conversations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. István Horváth: Be modest! You've got to prove it. Zoltán Gőgös towards István Horváth: Don't be proud of yourself! István Horváth: But what are you peacocking about?]]
u2015-10-26-290	On behalf of the government, István Nagy State Secretary, please.
u2015-10-26-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to start from a little further away, with my colleague György Szilágyi and Lajos Kepli first. Listening to Congressman György Szilágyi, I was thinking that it is so good that the land is a limited animal that it cannot be carried away on our backs, because it would certainly blame us for wanting to take it across the border. The position of Jobbik is becoming more and more crystaly, which I think you can safely take on, because there is almost no comment from which this would not come, that they would like to nationalise and hold the entire agricultural land in public hands in Hungary. So when it comes to the interests of Hungarian farmers, this must be heard from behind their voices, and in every speech it is in the hands of the state that they would most like to hold it, that is, if they ever come to government, then Hungarian farmers can expect nationalisation. So many times, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction and the Hungarian government received an unworthy attack on the main estates! Fidesz-KDNP has always been accused of trying to build the estate, that the rental of leases was all for that purpose. At the same time, every action we take proves exactly the opposite for you. When degression was introduced, the aim was precisely to reduce the support of the major estates. Now, when we offer the land of large farms for sale at public bids, it is still the destruction of the great estate that the Fidesz-KDNP and the government want to implement, and you are attacking it with complete vehemency, because you simply do not think that the land should be in the best hands with the Hungarian farmer. I am very happy to argue with Lajos Kepli, because I fully agree with him that the productive value of the earth is an infinitely important thing. And you're absolutely right, there's a huge danger that the land's productive value will decrease year after year. But here comes another, if we light this up from another point of view, a very good argument as to why these lands should then be sold. Because a tenant will never sacrifice, never spend extra expenses to increase the soil's productivity, because he wants to make the most of it, and then give it back to the owner to do what he wants to do with it. But whoever owns it is worth investing in the long term, soiling bacteria, a method of fertilization, methods of cultivation, weeding, selective or precision agriculture that protects and increases soil production - that is why. And ownership has a much bigger role to play than just taking the lease. This could also be an argument and a reason why some of the land in the hands of the State should be offered for sale. My fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, says that the sale of the future begins [[Nándor Gúr: Continue!]] And I say that the foundation of the future is rather taking place, because all those who acquire land get a limited possession, a property that is growing in value from day to day; they get a security with which they can build their lives. [[20.00]] My dear fellow Member, what is our goal? To tie young people in the countryside, to be there, to have a specific purpose in life, to have something to work for, to what challenge they will be able to safely base on in the future. This is an infinitely important aspect so that we can provide them with this. So this is definitely the future for them. I would like to answer a few questions for my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, with the word "ground dog." I've been listening to opinions all afternoon, and I've been thinking about how to do that. There is simply no way, in any way, of using these public systems. It's completely public, you have to go there, not just through a lawyer, the natural person has to take part in the bidding. You have to pick up the reel yourself, he has to buy this thing. It is not only a question of money who can buy it, because bank loans are available with interest rates below 2 per cent - i.e. 1,95 per cent of the loan - with which anyone who has a serious decision has a strong intention to buy this area. "The land belongs to the man who produces it," says my fellow Member, saying that we are lying because he is arguing about rental rights and property. I must say, my dear fellow Member, that the right to rent and the right to property are not in a parish right now. The right to rent is stronger than the right to property at the moment, but there is the possibility that the rent can be reviewed every two years. You can go to court if you feel someone has raised the rent. So the new owner can set the rent. Every two years, you have the right to change this thing, and of course you decide whether you want to pay the higher rent, who can manage it, or hand it over, or whether the owner will be the owner of the rent. But I would like to refer you back to the condition of Nándor Gúr: it is exactly the future. So whoever's buying it now is not buying it for today, not for tomorrow, but for the day after tomorrow. In fact, most people will not draw their own benefits, but their children or grandchildren will. This is responsible rural farming or thinking. That's what's gonna keep the country kid there. That's why he's going to a high school in agriculture, which is why he's going to a university in agricultural science to stay there and have a vision, because he's going to make sure that that property is theirs, and if he can supplement a few hectares or a few ten hectares that he's got now, and he can farm with it, he can provide a sure foundation for himself. They sell it to family farms - it's also a lie, because they won't be able to secure a 20% share. It's just one thing, to say the wrong assumption, I have to say, because most of the land, that 41,000 lot, is practically a lot under 10 hectares. Those who farm on earth, I tell you quite frankly, my dear Congresswoman, have so much reserves, so much money, I'm sure that you can pay for this part. If you can't afford this part, how do we think that he will be able to buy a tractor, that he will be able to make seed and all other investments? Well, it can't farm; but these people have a reserve, who can do so without further ado, out of these 10 hectares. But, and here come the commercial banks, you can take on the same preferential business development loan on your own to pay for your share. So there is no obstacle to virtually excluding family economies. Local farmers can start - it's a fake, because it's 20 kilometers. Dear Congresswoman, is this such a split-up because let's just say 15, say 10? You know very well that there is a village, an area where there is a settlement that has the potential to have more farmers who want to buy, but there is no area, and there are settlements that have grown so old and depopulated that they cannot buy, and then there is no equal distribution there. 20 kilometers is a gift for farmers to thrive. Even in the old world, they went to the neighboring settlement if they had to invest or buy. It's an opportunity that you don't have to live with. You can live. I hope that every settlement will have the power, the owner of so many entrepreneurs that they will be able to buy these areas themselves. Don't let the foreigners buy it, let's say we do. Indeed, it is in the best place in the hands of Hungarian farmers. History has set so many examples, and has turned so many times, and there has been so much madness in history, that we can really put this limited animal in the best place in the hands of private people, in the hands of Hungarian farmers, because it can operate there, operate there, and there it can benefit that region. It's part of small fields, 40,000 landmarks. I listen so sadly every time we talk about each other so selectively that we all just emphasize what is right for us. My fellow Member of the LMP also considered the 40,000 to be such negligible, worthless land for annuity, and even swung down to it, that it was for nothing. Well, let the world forgive you. If it is really important to strengthen small farmers, who have few areas to add a few more hectares, then why enlarge them? Why are we debating the possibility that yes, this 40,000 lots are a very serious item, a very serious amount of quantity that we know about, and we know very well that there are beginners now, because they are young farmers, really with a few hectares, there are those who already have a few hectares, and those 5-10 hectares are very useful for them to be able to become stronger. And yes, it must also be said that there are larger farmers who will be able to take other areas more forcefully. But agricultural operators cannot be here, and I think it is a very big mistake in Hungarian politics today that we are trying to turn agricultural operators against each other as enemies. Believe me, they don't need to be turned against each other. They need to be put in the same direction as each other to strengthen each other. For whoever is larger will be able to be an integrator, who can be organizer throughout the region, to draw the area with him; and for the little ones, he can provide a livelihood and self-sufficiency for the whole and the countryside. So this is absolutely important, that we need to be complementary to each other, not enemies of agriculture, and that is how the balance that is needed in Hungarian agriculture is restored. He says that the land is not in the right place in the hands of Hungarian farmers. Dear Congresswoman, you have listed examples of why you are not in good hands. I have to tell you, if you look at the results, we have a record. There are such excellent averages, our contribution to GDP was so excellent, agricultural employment was so excellent! There has been weather before, there is weather now, and you can see how Hungarian agriculture works, it has excellent results. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: It is good that there is weather.]] Let's not underestimate him. To say that, because right now Hungarian agriculture is not fit for good, believe me, Hungarian agriculture produces world-class. It would be very bad if you didn't produce world class. [[Nándor Gúr: I wish!]] Let me be very firm in rejecting each other's classification and saying that there are uncredited people sitting here. Dear Congresswoman, we've all been elected. We're all authorized to represent. We represent an area, and I must say to you that the Fidesz-KDNP faction is precisely composed of those Members who have been admitted directly from a single constituency; of course, all respect is to all individual Members who have been elected. [[20.10]] We know that all Members are the same, but the mandate, the burden on the shoulders of an individual Member, is still greater and more responsible than that of other fellow Members. And that's a much larger number than us. Let's not put each other that way, it doesn't fit the debate, technically. Finally, Minister Fazekas' statement. I'm really sorry that you guys understood that. The Minister simply quoted the law that the law authorizes the Minister of the Environment to sign and approve it. There's nothing in this that should make you wonder. It was a simple literal quote from the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-26-292	Thank you. We will continue with the preliminary speeches. Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-10-26-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Many aspects have been mentioned by Jobbik or even opposition parties as to why we consider privatisation of the land to be bad. I would now like to emphasise, with regard to these young people, why we consider this to be a mistake. I could simply say the answer, too, that where I came from, where my birthplace belongs, there too many people are dealing with agriculture, there too will be auctions through many settlements, from Kiskunhalas through Jánoshalma, and I think it is worth considering in this respect why we consider this step to be wrong. In the course of the debate, it has emerged that there is almost a sharp contrast between the positions of pro-government and opposition representatives. Perhaps it is worth examining how this worked out, for this was not always the case. Let me therefore quote from the field section of the National Land Fund Act. According to this, the state was entitled to a pre-emption right, and the law contains this, and I'm sure István Nagy, State Secretary, is aware of that. The reason for this can be read:. The aim of this was to ensure that the state that promoted the land market as an active player can fulfil its task of using land in public land for agricultural, rural, population and social policy purposes and to promote land management for public purposes. In particular, it is also stated that, for example, the provision of long-term use to young couples who are interested in the birth and rearing of children, who want to settle and farm, for example by family farmers. Mr Secretary of State, please explain to me how long-term use is related to the current sale. I may have misinterpreted the two words, but I think that putting them into permanent use clearly shows that, at the time, even your intention was to give them to the families and to the various young couples described. On the other hand, you're selling it now. This may be your position now, people change, a government program can change, anything can happen, but then it would have been clear if they had started by saying that they were of a different opinion than the National Earth Fund Act of three years ago. I think you should have admitted so much. But let's keep looking. You voted in favour of the national rural strategy in 2012, so I am talking again about a document that you probably agreed with. In this, you announced a demographic earth program. I am also obliged to bring this up again because my colleague, Mr President Novák, has already done so today, but Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs has answered many things but has not given an answer. At the same time, we would like to ask what your programme is. This was also very nicely, rightly agreed with us, that, by developing and launching a population and demographic land programme, the NFA intends to provide land for young couples who want to farm, under a permanent land lease right of 25-50 years old and inheritable years, with the condition that the young family settles, farms, as well as 2-3 children are born and raised. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, what is your position on this matter. You wrote these sentences three years ago. However, obviously, if you sell the state land, most of it, you cannot implement this program. So I'd like to get an answer to that, too. You have often mentioned the auctions, which can be said to be, yes, after all, virtually by helping with the loan with a favourable interest rate, anyone can gain access to the land in this way. Yet I say, not alone, along with several opposition fellow Members, that this is not realistic. It's not realistic, because let's just think that because of the credit anomalies in recent years, many young people are afraid of taking credit. Others have asked the question that this lending is not logical. Why would the payment of the loan be better than, say, the rent? Also, it is not difficult to see, because I think we all know how auctions work, that those who have capital have a competitive advantage, and that they will have a simpler, more likely access to these lands. It is no coincidence, by the way, that Agria, which brings together young farmers, expressed concern about this method. I think that's telling, too. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State to answer these questions as well. In view of all this, I believe that betraying the young people of the countryside, the future generation, is the earth's program. Instead of making the situation difficult for young people and families, you should be concerned about increasing the number of young people who want to work in agriculture. A few weeks ago, my colleague Zoltán Magyar and I submitted a written question asking why they did nothing to stop the decline in the number of agricultural students. In fact, there has been a serious decline in recent years. Otherwise, it is not only our country that is affected by this problem, but also at European level, changing the agricultural generation is a big problem. We're talking about an ageing farmer, and there's not enough young people to take their place. Rather, I would ask you to focus on supporting young people, encouraging them to acquire agricultural knowledge and helping families, for example, in the same way as the demographic programme, rather than selling the land and thus making it extremely difficult to reverse it. I trust that the Secretary of State will not leave, but will respond to them. In the hope of that, thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-10-26-294	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It's a two-minute lap. First, Congressman Gábor Bellozó, MSZP. Here.
u2015-10-26-295	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to the words of Secretary of State István Nagy, in two things. On the one hand, Mr. Secretary, this is what happens when you have to explain, because there really are no arguments. Exactly what you've done so far, disprove what you're saying. After all, they also had to set conditions for land lease applications in order to make use of the land, to stop harmful processes and to launch useful processes. Because it won't happen on its own! If the land is sold now, they can't interfere. That's why the argument you made doesn't stop. What you said to Congresswoman Heringes about the size of the land is quite outrageous. The congresswoman did not object to the fact that 60,000 hectares of land were sold in 40,000 parts, and no one had a problem with that. Mr. Secretary, the problem is that 320,000 acres are sold in 10,000 pieces! That's the problem, Mr. Secretary. With this. And you stepped over it elegantly. But that's not really when I applied for a two-minute speech, but for social cooperatives. It was my favourite thing that social cooperatives need to be strengthened in knowledge. Well, Secretary of State, I don't doubt you're committed to this. A tender has just been issued for the spending of HUF 70 million per social cooperative for 10 social cooperatives, i.e. HUF 700 million in total, with training and education to be completed by these cooperatives in one week. In a week! They add 70 million forints per social cooperative to teach them for a week! And they'll pour knowledge into the heads of social cooperatives, as you requested. Only then, when they want to utilize this knowledge, there will be no land where they can sell this knowledge. Mr. Secretary, let's not take each other for granted. What you're doing here is unacceptable!
u2015-10-26-296	Congressman Font Alexander, Fidesz.
u2015-10-26-297	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Anyone applying for a two-minute speech must be very careful, because the general speech is moving on very quickly, and we may be able to speak in the third round. [[Zoltán Pride: We didn't do this either!]] Let me get back to some numbers. My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, said with some huge tragedy that the current earth traffic law, according to his reading, opens the possibility of buying land for all the inhabitants of Europe, virtually between 700 and 800 thousand people. [[György Szilágyi: With Associated Countries!]] He even listed the associated countries here. [[20.20]] Congressman, it would have been better if you had studied the land law a little more, this principle which you outlined here as a great tragedy, because, if we may say so, we were on the lookout, we who tried to create this land traffic law, and we lived with the judgment of the European Court of Justice in one of the strange lawsuits which said that land purchase can be subject to conditions for a given Member State, if that is what you want. And what a miracle, we thought we'd make it conditional. Just a few small conditions, let me tell you. The 700-800 thousand affected people who can buy agricultural land in Hungary, so it is almost true in themselves, there were only conditions - which the Union has rejected, but let us insist that this is important for us - that only farmers can buy, they are natural individuals, all those who have been established in Hungary for at least three years, and who are engaged in agricultural production in a way of life, but not only for announcement, but also for a state administration. And do you know how many of these are now? 102,000. Even all Hungarian farmers, who are currently entitled, did not request this certificate. According to our calculations, 180 or 200,000 farmers could request this certificate, but did not request it. Currently 102 thousand people, natural individuals can buy land in Hungary, and not 700-800 thousand people. That's the little thing I wanted to fix. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-26-298	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2015-10-26-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am forced to respond to President Font, because a significant part of these terms are now being examined by the European Union, and as unfortunate as we are, it is in all likelihood - you have admitted that - that you will break the earth traffic law, and from this point on, it will fully stand up to the fact that they have created a law that is 700-800 million frees the purchase of land for citizens in Hungary. It has been said several times today that Jobbik has voted for, for example, the National Land Fund Manager Act, and you will conclude that we certainly supported the sale of land at that time. I can't deny that enough. Jobbik then submitted amendments to the National Property Act and to the Fundamental Law, which would have resulted in land becoming an inalienable national property. Nevertheless, there were, of course, parts to be supported by the law that we highlighted and supported. But the fact that you were unable to close this opportunity at the time - but you didn't want to - doesn't mean that Jobbik would agree with that at any time, and that's what we said. It has been said here that it is a credible program that is being implemented. Well, that would have been credible if it had been made public before the elections in 2010 and 2014, but as we know, you didn't have an election programme, apart from the fact that in 2010, the socialists had to be replaced - we even agreed with this part of the sentence - but there was no programme. And in 2014 they had one word in their program, that we continue with it. Don't tell me you told me you were going to sell these lands. They didn't just tell us, they didn't tell us, they didn't tell their own voters. From now on, it's hard to call a credible program. And let's not forget the arguments behind this being brought in and tried to escape. If these lands are not sold now, there is only one danger: your friends, your oligarchs, who have won the land leases, will be found out that they have failed to keep their promise of keeping animals or other conditions, and are trying to cover them. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-300	Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP, please.
u2015-10-26-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to reflect on what was said by the Secretary of State István Nagy. Many times have already been said to help small and medium-sized farmers. Tell me, Mr State Secretary, why, if this is the real aim, it could not be supported by the agricultural integration law that Jobbik has tabled, namely the Plant Regulation Act, which would have given you the opportunity to examine the interests of natural persons in ownership and possibly limit this possibility. Why couldn't you support it then? Why couldn't the cooperative law be introduced first to get those people to cooperate in the countryside and together? When we are discussing legitimacy issues here, there are always questions that, if they were right and that was the real argument, why these did not happen in advance. Similarly, whenever I hear the government's position that in good hands, farmers have the land, and that property goes there, it sounds very good and heart-to-heart, the only problem is that the government is playing a double game. When he wants to make money out of something or something, such as land, he says that farmers have the right place for money. Why would the Utilities say that the state is the good owner? Why do you say we have to eliminate the privacy system? In one place, he says that management of natural resources must be nationalised, the more nationalised, because the state can be a good farmer, when it comes to arguing that we should be more private and give it to it, then they say that the farmer is the good farmer. I don't understand. When these arguments arise, there is always a way for the little ones to get to the ground. And when these sales are carried out, if that is the case, I would like to see a wealth analysis for a next government, how they use self-esteem, and how farmers who can take part in the bidding will achieve this, because I will continue to maintain that small and medium-sized farmers will not have the capital to make use of this opportunity. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-26-302	Thank you. We will go back to the speeches that have been announced. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-10-26-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that, at the end of the debate, Minister Fazekas is here to listen to this debate. The question is, however, how credible the content of the debate, which we have heard so far from the pro-government representatives, is, as my fellow Member has already mentioned, and, on the other hand, how much is it actually about this subject. Unfortunately, we're used to that. Minister, I have many questions for you right now. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Here you go. Let's hear it.]] And I'd like to stay on point. In any case, I would like to mention that, apart from the lightning-quick sale of this 380 thousand hectares - which is worth 300-400 billion forints - in addition to the lightning-quick sale of a month and a half - I can say that there is also a scandal on your name, and, to say the least, it is not encouraging that you are also one of the people who characterize this action. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I don't want to be sympathetic to the MSZP!]] Here, for example, Szilárd Kiss, who has been appointed agrarian attaché without a personal security certificate, István Horváth Minister for Pig Affairs, the 1% of the ragweed spent on completely different things, and the fact that we have managed to invest in Quaestor Hungária, and we are talking about hundreds of millions in scale. But on the other hand, I would like to respond to a few points. State Secretary Márton Bitay and Mr István Horváth could also tell us a lot about trafikmutyi. I would like to ask István Horváth how many knockers to collect for the fields. [[Balázs Győrffy: No more knocking tickets!]] There's no knocking tags anymore. Then how many signatures do you need? That's all you mentioned on that particular tape, so I asked you so that it would make sense. How much do you expect to be 18 for this? He also said on that tape that he needed to be on the right. What you're doing isn't right-wing politics, it's not conservative politics. This is a disgrace to conservative politics, because it's all about their business interests. There is no agricultural policy and no other policy for the government, there are purely business and private interests, which we have seen for years. So the horse's foot is really hanging out. The question is, what is the reason why they pass these lands so quickly, in a month and a half, and why at all do they think that these lands are not in good hands with the state. Why do you think that whatever positives might come from this, why reason with it when it seems that there are basically private interests behind wanting to privatize these lands? After all, if the land is state-owned and a state is well-thinking in its structure and operates within the framework of the rule of law, then there is indeed an opportunity to create jobs with it, then there would actually be a possibility for young farmers to farm, and this could be a real perspective for the people living in the countryside in the construction that my fellow Members have mentioned several times. By the way, you can see that you are driven solely by private interests, even by the fact that we are talking about a government decision. If you were really interested in positive and forward-looking solutions and not in private interests, you would not be doing this in this form, but in the right form to do so. [[20.30]] Clearly, that's not the point. The lease applications showed that lands were won by people who had nothing to do with it. Now I could say that they're artificial nails, they come from all kinds of occupations, but one thing's for sure, those who have cultivated that land for decades have fallen away from this additional opportunity. Your family's livelihood is in danger. And it was evident that there were countless cases of animal keepers who had to slaughter hundreds of animals because others had received this land. And it's all on the part of government representatives and the government. Don't think that there will be no consequences, by the way. We have seen that this government has built a rook and built a system, of course, with the support of the pro-government representatives working for you in every way. However, this will end at some point, and, as my fellow Members have said, everything that we can do, which can be documented and accounted for by means and legal means, will be kept in account, and these actions will have to be dealt with before the authorities. Here's the thing about helping young people. Young people are fleeing the country. It doesn't matter what they do, whether they are doctors, people living in the countryside, people who would have wanted to farm, or it was a perspective, because they grew up in such a family, and they have a very positive view of it, and it is their future, and they are also fleeing this country. Who do you think of when you talk about small lands, small lands, young people, and then you can farm on them, and you have your own power? Let's take a look at some examples of this, shall we? Let's say, Jánossomorj 28 ha 55 million forints. Eleven acres, 35 million forints, 75 acres, 185 million. In Mosonmagyaróvár 70 ha 132 million HUF. Now, obviously, these young people need to have at least 10 percent self-power. Where's the 20 percent? Where are these young people? Who have that kind of money to have that kind of money? And I would add that we're talking about people who are now 30 years old, young people, let's assume they'd have that kind of self-esteem, but in 36 years they'll be able to use the land and farm. They'll be 66 then. I'm asking you, how young are we talking about? You can tell it's a complete scam. Government communication is going, they're trying to justify this privatisation, but it's completely transparent, and it's obvious that the practice we've seen, even in the case of Lőrinc Mészáros, that they're playing the land for people who even give the lease to people who are connected to the government, who are buddies, and they're obviously loyal. Question is, for signatures, you're about to get other benefits. That's what the insolence is, by the way, that they dare to do that, and who dares to serve the people in the country, who dares to serve the people in the country. So look inside, be nice.
u2015-10-26-304	Thank you very much. Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-10-26-305	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Finally, a good time and opportunity to talk about the land affairs of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. There is nothing more beautiful than the fact that the minister himself, who, by the way, can hear about the greatness of the greatness of the greatness, can find out about the land affairs of the greatness within the walls of the House. In our country, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, since the agricultural economy is an extremely strong area, public land is an important issue, private land is an important issue, but also all the issues of the earth. In light of this, therefore, we can also look at the current day of debate, i.e. what the status quo is, what it will be like and what we know about what the government has planned and what it is all about. I thought it best and proper to take those persons on board and not to be right; let it be that, perhaps, in a few years' time, Minister, you may say that you were wrong to say that the people you mentioned were once again more powerful or more influential. I know it's going to be boring for you, Minister, who I'm going to talk about, because you know them, old fellow warriors, if you will. The first issue I'd like to bring up is the Hubai family. I believe that for you, the Huba family, Imre Huba and his interests are not unknown. Imre Hubai, Jr., Vice President of NAK, Vice President of the National Chamber of Agriculture, father of the county president, chairman of the local distribution committee, former President of Magos County. It's not a ground-breaking committee, it's a land committee, if we say so correctly, I'm looking at the President of the Chamber of Agriculture here. Of course, the family's title is not only large, but also, it seems, all the state aid or not state aid, all the land-based support, but overall, we can say that it is rural development aid that they have been able to obtain. Together, these grants, if you can believe on Farm Subsidies' website, exceeded 1 billion forints in the previous state before 2010, but you can safely say so, and here I looked at the 2014 data based on the checks on the rural development and agricultural support that the family received, not just one person. We can see that, overall, in four years, nearly HUF 3 billion was obtained by persons and companies belonging to the family's interests. They would be your family farms. If you take the writing of the countryside.Today, they are from Huba and Társa Kft., which did not fit into the top 100 agricultural companies, they have shown that they are ranked 175th - by the way, I think the Prime Minister's Office brought down this top 500 list - with HUF 1 billion 916 million. Well, we can see that these people, these interests, will have plenty of money to get into the bidding that will start in the Great Community, which will start in Karcagon and around it. The other person may also be familiar, even by his family name, Szabolcs Fazekas, who, as we know, is not one of your relatives or family members. I think there's been a lawsuit in this, which has established that. Well, the Commissioner of the Fish, mayor of Tomajmonostora, mayor of Fidesz, of his interests, receives an annual grant of HUF 126 million for the land himself, his wife is Deputy Registrar of the Kunhegyes District Office, who has won 130 hectares of land leased. I think it's an exclusive example of the land that belongs to the man who cultivates it. Obviously, a deputy Registrar can do exactly the 130 hectares in his everyday activities, as we put it, the farmer with the crusty hands who is constantly farming his land. Overall, it can be said that the Mayor Fazekas's interests included, in a safe way, and these facts, with HUF 251 million in support in 2014 alone. They want more than 1 billion forints per four-year cycle, and they have already obtained them. By the way, Népszabadság also wrote about them, and overall, according to Népszabadság, the area used by the family is 1,000 hectares. But I could also mention the Garancsi-Kékessy family, which does not need to be presented to those who know the circles of Viktor Orbán. The ex-Paris ambassador also manages a very nice estate. What is worth knowing, however, is: what are these people going to apply for, why is it important that they have such agricultural support? In the Nagykunság there is only a HUF 199 million tender in the total amount of less than 3 hectares, for 240 parts of Karcagon, under 3 hectares, and there are still no larger areas. In total, Karcagon will distribute 93 million forints, distribute them, give them to the government. It is therefore worth following them because we can see who will have the opportunity, who will have the money to rejoin this business. Mr. Secretary. I really want to be wrong. I would very much like these people not to come forward again as winners, winners, and they would not be richer with new lands, and not with real family farmers, but with Fidesz family farmers. I think this trend is going in this direction. Mr. Secretary, I'm very happy to have this cleared up here. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-306	Minister Sándor Fazekas has spoken on behalf of the government. Here you go. [[20.40]]
u2015-10-26-307	Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, I think I've gathered a number of questions, which I'd like to answer. There are a few things that I do not want to get ahead of Mr. Secretary of State, because he has been approached on several occasions, but I think I should say my opinion on some of the points and questions that have been raised here. One is that Congressman Harangozó said, if I remember correctly, I do not know if he said it, then I did not write exactly that there are 350 thousand hectares written here for 10,000 pieces, I do not know exactly whether he said something like that. It's not written out, it's been like that for who knows how long. These landmarks are often 100 and 150 years old, so the government didn't distribute anything. So if someone is not aware of such basic things, then perhaps it is better to take the time to prepare for what they are doing here, and don't be angry. [[Gábor István Bellozó: It was difficult, but it was done. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, but what you're saying doesn't mean it's real, you can't shake your head and hold it. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Pathetic! It's a shame.]] I don't know what's pathetic, if someone's getting ready for a meeting or not, I think it's the latter. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The following is: social cooperatives - adding that the FM is obviously trying to answer all the questions, but I think that this is not entirely our area. One thing is certain that, for municipalities, areas which are either used by social cooperatives or directly by local authorities for Start work can continue to be provided by the state in the future. [[Zoltán Grimlock:]] In addition, social cooperatives work in intensive sectors, for example in gardening, they already have a number of areas, wealth management, and many residential properties, closed gardens, abandoned closed gardens, in the country 200 000 hectares, which allows these cooperatives to obtain land. So I think it is very easy to talk about this in general, but I do not remember that the NFA refused either a municipality or a social cooperative in the field of land. It also includes the need for less than 100 and 200 hectares of land. Magyar Zoltán asks about the Fidesz program. I am referring you to the 2010 programme, which is still in force. That includes the support of the family economy. It's in there, you have to read it, and it's obvious. [[Zoltán Magyar: This was not included.]] He's in the program, so be assured the congressman he's in on it. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] It is, among other things, because there are parts in which more of the people present are engaged as editors. Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek is asking for the bill for integration of Jobbik. I think that we should start from the beginning, that Jobbik has been able to put down any amendments to the debate, and we are looking forward to the complete land law that concerns the nationalization of the earth, and we are looking forward to the specific land law that you have promised, and I think that after that, like everything else, the rest can be discussed. With Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, I didn't quite understand how he wanted to confuse the land with waste management. Obviously, everything is connected to everything, but I think that the land - as a renewable natural resource and national wealth - should not be criticised by other analogues, at least the government's land programme. The congressman wants a self-esteem investigation. I don't know how popular that is. I trust that if you bid on the ground, especially since 80 percent of the land is under 10 hectares, you can stand your own strength. Besides, he can take out a loan, and I don't think it's possible that he can borrow money from family members or touch assets he doesn't need if 10 percent of self-esteem is to be placed on a few acres. So I don't think it's an insurmountable thing. And I don't think we should back out of this program because there are bigger areas and maybe stronger buyers, because then we'd push it out with exactly the smaller farmers whose territory, let's say, is wedged into a few acres of state or even a few thousand square meters. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, I see that you do not like the work I do, Congresswoman. [[Márta Demeter: No.]] But I don't expect the party of big owners and foreigners to like what the wallet does. [[Uproar, interjections from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Have you listened to what we spoke about? Gábor István bellozó taps. The president's ringing the bell.]] Yeah, I can see I've managed to stimulate their activity. On all the issues that you have said and which are, by the way, specific and minor, I believe that I have already been given detailed information in relation to the land law and the delivery of farmers. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] At the same time, I consider it my duty to protect the lady with the artificial nails that you are constantly attacking. Fair, honest housekeeper, honest, honest farming family... [[Zoltán Haughty: And when did you see a cow?]] They were a respectable, honest family, and they were subjected to unworthy harassment on your part. Dear Parliament, Here and now, I would like to say that it is an outrageous thing to attack a farmer or a farmer because he does not only do agriculture, but, as otherwise, to stand on more feet, to trade, to prepare food, to sell, to open a pension, to take on services, for example, car service, and so on, and then to find a profile that does not prevent him from farming, because he is not an astronaut who is up in space for half a year, then he is being dragged nationwide. I must reject this in the name of the Hungarian farming community, and I am already predicting that I know that you are very prepared to see how many rural doctors, who are farmers, how many industrialists, who are farmers by the way, will be placed on the brink and others who are not, by the way, exclusively engaged in farming, may be engaged in rural hospitality and so on. [[Interviews and information in the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] For employees who are not farmers, no matter how much this hurts the capital and the owners of the companies, the possibility of buying the land does not open. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who graduated from medical school...]] Anyone who has graduated from medical school and is not a farmer can't buy either. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] I welcome this kind of question-and-answer, but obviously the congressman doesn't want to insult the others who pushed the button and wait to ask questions by interrupting and asking his own question here. I would therefore like to protect the farmer with nails, also those who deal with village hospitality, or even work as a teacher in seed trade, because this is how they can live, and they didn't have enough land before, often because of you - who gave these lands to the kissers - to farm independently. By the way, it is obvious that 7700 farmers have received land under the programme for farmers. They can bring up about a hundred of these cases, and obviously they need to be handled in their own place. Expired land leases, how were there much earlier landlords here? Dear Parliament, Obviously, a former landlord, big company or small company, knew how long the land lease would last. It went down, and then the Hungarian state announced it. That's what I'm counting on. It could have been calculated in Mezőhegyes, which, by the way, was privatized the way it was extracted from the state land. Now suddenly the 220-year-old stud farm became a sensitive subject; when it was sold to the kissers, it was not a sensitive subject. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] That's not how many people worked, it's thousands, and now there's 400 of them, so there's a sense of precision here. But there's also land lease time, and then there's a tender, and then it's decided who wins. You guys don't really think that the government has put up a bid that we already have, say, an MSZP major estate to win, do you? Lands are too expensive - that's what the congresswoman said. Other times, the MSZP says we're gonna run the fields. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I think this should be arranged between us, whether the land can be bought or if the government sells it at a low price. The price of the land is set at a bid, and where the land is more expensive, it is obviously more difficult to obtain land, but at the same time there are areas in the country where land prices are more moderate. I think farmers, young people, should be left with what they buy and what they don't, what they're willing to bid and what they're not willing to do. By the way, this program is a significant help for young people, because where there is an older farmer, an older family member, and it may be that his estate is not too large, but now he can supplement it, then perhaps the young person will undertake to continue his family farming. László György Lukács mentioned several families here. Honourable Congressman, I haven't seen anything here that's forbidden. I would also like to protect both the Huban family and Szabolcs Fazekas and his family, Mr Garanchi and Dezső Kékesi's family. If there's something wrong with you, I don't think it's up to Parliament to clarify that if you have a problem with these families. But I would like to say that obviously these subsidies, agricultural subsidies, area areas and the rest are not unknown. If you see a problem, you should file a complaint in these cases or in other cases. But at the expense of hardworking, hardworking people, you are making assumptions here in Parliament, and you want to create a situation in which one of these family members or relatives of their names will start an auction by being a second-class citizen, and this is the modern-day tour, honourable Member. [[20.50]] In the name of the Hungarian economy, I ask you to make this a point here in Parliament. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] By the way, I'm not going to speculate about anyone's future auction or buying land. You're the one who speculate, completely irresponsible. I think it will be decided at the time whether or not those affected want to buy land, how much land they want to buy, and what will be the result of an auction. It'll come to that, it's a future thing. I mean, I don't want to speculate in any case about what's gonna happen. And there's absolutely no way that there's any distribution here. Congressman is an educated lawyer, so you obviously know how an auction works. Auctions aren't handing out, the farmers there can bid on the ground at a public auction. And the limit is 300 hectares, I would stress, the property limit is 300 hectares, so whoever already has all the land will be able to buy that much less. Whether or not a family is running on a bid like this, I think it's a matter of the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-308	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. As a representative, István Nagy, Member of the Fidesz. Here you go, two minutes.
u2015-10-26-309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a debt to my fellow Member, Gergely Farkas, I would like to pay. He's asking what makes it better to charge or rent. I think that if you can choose someone, you'll definitely choose the loan, because then you're a owner and you'll be in possession. And the rent is an eternal life payment, and you're not gonna own it, so you can move it anytime you want. So that's the difference between the two, Cardinal difference, and I think it's extremely important. Demographic Earth Program. Let me add so much, because not all the land is sold, so any program of this can still be implemented. But if you want my opinion, then I have to tell you that the best demographic earth program is to get these young people to property, land. My fellow Member, Márta Demeter, asked me how young people will be able to buy land in Kimla or kindergarten. Taking the young farmer's proposal as a basis, where these young people will receive HUF 12 million, is an additional opportunity to finance a part of the land that is quite beautiful, so that they still don't have to spend a penny of their own money to get that land. The utility companies and other contexts, my fellow Member, Mr Róbert Sallai, are, you know, precisely about profits. The difference is that, as long as we want to reduce the fees for utility companies, because we want people to have more money, we do not want utility companies to be very profitable, but to operate on a non-profit basis, and the owners to acquire as much property as possible. This is the difference between giving land to farmers and limiting utility companies to raise prices. Concerning the cooperative law [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] - one more sentence, Mr President, allow me - to conspire with the way and opportunity of free owners, not coerced, but when they can freely conspire as owners. So first, you have to be the owner, then you can volunteer for the cooperative. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-26-310	Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP, two minutes.
u2015-10-26-311	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, it's always nice to mention that the fields are below 10 hectares. If you want to help small farmers by buying ten acres of land, then why don't we infiltrate the government's decree with a acquisition restriction so that no bidder can take more than 10 hectares? Couldn't it be easier to digest? I mean, if you're right and they're such small bids, then why put a $300 million credit line in the credit facility? What kind of small farmer wants to borrow $300 million? If you don't take this as a disrespect, Minister, I'll tell you what you said to my fellow Member Bellozó, so that you can prepare yourself, go out a little more. The Act of Integration was fully submitted by Jobbik, before the Committee on Agriculture, there was no modification in it, it was a detailed, very well-educated plant regulation law. So this was in front of us. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: There was no law!]] Feel free to look at Parliament's website from time to time, they're up there, you can look at them. And the fact that the hostess may be doing something else, I completely agree with you. Obviously, it's good to have more legs. The problem is, in this case, those who have been challenged have never before dealt with land in his life. The problem is not with someone who has been farming for 20 to 30 years or has built his future for this since the change of regime, but with those who have just had a Magos acquaintance and thought they would try a tender. It's more of a problem. The problem is that you consider state land as an income supplement to your own acquaintances, not as the employment potential of an independent economy. And obviously that's the main problem. Last of all, he said twice in his speech that he had just said, "In the name of the host society." I would ask you to say this in a more moderate and less modest manner, because we believe it in the name of the Magos and the Magos farmers, but in the name of the farming community, you are not anointed to speak and represent, because you have not asked the farming community. If you want to talk like this, let us hold a social consultation on this in the name of the farming community, but it would be even better to have a referendum on whether society wants to do this or not. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-10-26-312	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will return to the speeches that have been announced in advance. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, please.
u2015-10-26-313	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Welcome to Parliament, Minister. Since... [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: We also love you!]] I'm in there a little more than the Minister. Since this Kiss Szilárd case, the Minister has not visited Parliament's meetings very much, because he wants to avoid unpleasant questions [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Be here more.]] And leave it to the Secretary of State to answer these unpleasant questions because he still couldn't account for why he appointed a man as a leading lobbyist to Russia who failed to pass the National Security Office investigation. With this answer, the Minister is still indebted to what is the relationship, what is the fantastic magic that Szilárd Kiss knew, with which he bewitched you, forcing him to support you even when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also thought it was necessary to divorce this man. This has to do with the fact that Minister has experience in privatisation, honourable Fidesz colleagues. Perhaps you'll remember the Dirty 12 of the state economy [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] In fact, during the previous Orbán government, they disappeared and were privatized in a similar circle, i.e. in a circle of friends that the opposition is now afraid of, as we can see, as the person is the same. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Minister, you are teaching everyone in this Parliament, and I think that the kind of mistrust that colleagues are talking about here from any opposition party has a basis. You have a past, you have a history in this area, which is why I put it this way that you have experience in the disappearance of certain state property, in your private hands. And the joke that István Horváth asked for you here in Parliament, who is in the traffikmútyi, I don't know if I should show you how long he is in it, and he doesn't recognize his own voice from a tape recorder. We recognized him, though. So I think it really is a discreet charm of the debate that Congressman is asking for this. I suppose you'll have to work for the potential land grabbing that we absolutely understand, but don't bother us with this thing, and it's really worth paying a little bit more attention to who's talking about what. It is also an interesting point, mentioned by Minister, that we are, as it were, the party of the large-ownership and the Green Barons, while, in the support line of the last period, in the list of EU subsidies, it can be seen that about 80 percent of the subsidies went to almost 20 percent. So I don't know if we're the Green Barons' party, then what are you? So where a Simicska, Nyerges, Mészáros Lőrinc... only received 6 billion forints, Minister, as a support. What if it's not big estate support? You're talking about how much you support small owners. Pretty much nothing. Because it's still that the more people have lobbying power, the more support they get. If it weren't for this in your EU support policy, then what you're telling us here would be absolutely credible, because you protect artificial nails and roofers and gas mechanics so that they're miserable, let them have some land, because you can't make a living out of artificial nails. And we're saying what I think the LMP colleague said, that we had a problem with getting land from people who had never dealt with this activity before in their life. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right.]] And it's not a matter of whose wife, on a second job, is coloring fake nails with shiny paint. [[21.00]] The other is - and let the Minister understand this - that I have also listened to his sentences - that I respect that you have this opinion and that you will carry this policy through, that you will beat it through Parliament, but allow us to see certain issues differently. This is just the case that the opposition may have another opinion or other type of opinion, another approach to a subject; we do not yet belong to dictatorships where the opposition is either in prison or not. Please note, therefore, that we may have other opinions on this. Our opinion is that, on the one hand, there is a lack of trust; the lack of trust in us to look at ourselves, and everyone in either a tagged second job, or a landowner second job, or a well-paying private business, where they sell anticancer peach seeds in a large batch, and they can make a very good living out of it, that's for sure. The only linking power of this is that you are not family-friendly, but - you need to add another word - your own family-friendly and friend-friendly government, so in Hungarian: who belongs to Fidesz, who belongs to this client until the big boss is harmed - see Simicska, Nyerges - you can get richer, get more and more assets, assets and extra profit, income. [[István Horváth's intervention.]] So I understand why you want to privatise this 300-400 billion or even 500 billion now quickly, but the same thing happened in the traff case, Congressman Horváth, where we were also talking about a 300-500 billion-dollar market. Yes, I understand that it is very good when fidesz family members, friends and friends can make millions with these trade concessions, but I do not think that is right. Therefore, our position is that there is a lack of trust, because the minister is coming from a time when we have seen this type of privatisation, how it is done, we see what the Fidesz government has done in other areas in the last four to five years - just to add another comment to István Horváth - also in the area of tramps. Therefore, there is a lack of confidence on the part of the opposition. The other is that we do not think that this is in the interest of Hungarian agriculture, and we believe that it is damaging Hungarian agriculture, thus causing a long-term strategic problem for Hungary, the Hungarian nation. We believe that, for example, in these lands - and it is a good achievement from agriculture, that it has contributed to a 3.6 percent increase in GDP in the last year by a fair scale, we hope that this will continue in the future. It is important that, from our point of view, in terms of specific land, this could have been a direct employment policy instrument, since in the field of livestock farming, gardening or green economy, the state would have been a direct tool. I remember the Prime Minister's sentences, who said that we not only sell land, but we buy land, and now he's talking about the fact that he's not even selling what we're selling. So I understand that it is always the meeting point that determines the position, and what kind of demand who has declared, but we do not see this policy as consistent, and that is why we think that this is more of a dissipation of agriculture than a representation of the interests of Hungarian agriculture and farmers. The other one. We hear - and reassure the Minister that they are not even trying - that next time they want to privatise forestry economies in the same way. I understand that it is only possible for God to do so in a two-thirds law, so they have a relatively small chance of doing so, but they are so clever - because many people like to hunt - and they may also need one or two more people in Fidesz to shoot pheasants there with their buddies. [[Defiance. Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] So that's why I think... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There's a reason I'm saying this metaphor, there's a leader who used to do it in the previous system, and I can only compare you to that. The other thing that is important in this regard is that it will effectively have such long-term implications that it will be very difficult to reverse. Zoltán Gőgös said on several occasions that those who get to the ground fairly do not have anything to fear in a given world, because these people lived on it, we want them to continue living on it, and they will also get help, not only Simicska, Nyerges and the Fidesz masters. On the other hand, we would like to point out once again that people who get to the ground in an unfair way are, on the other hand, [[István Horváth's intervention.]] [[István Horváth's intervention.]] István Horváth's help was unfairly obtained in Szekszárd, and you have the right to be afraid of it (interjection by István Horváth). That, once, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a sort of accountability, and indeed you, who have been involved in this, must count on the retortion that all cases which were illegal, which were immoral, must be dealt with in the presence of Hungarian laws and the Hungarian judiciary. The fact is that trees never grow anywhere to the sky, so there will be no Fidesz government in Hungary, and therefore the twenty years that have been spent here will certainly bring in a long-term non-Fidesz government where this accountability will take place. Therefore, I think you should think about what happens if this happens, and it would be better to adapt the actions in the present, so that there is no problem later. That's why I'm saying this so they don't say we didn't warn you later. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-26-314	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab for two minutes.
u2015-10-26-315	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I must address Mr. Attila Mesterházy. It would have been nice if you'd been in the room the whole time, heard it, not come in for a revelation. [[Zoltán Pride: You weren't here the whole time.]] Please read the minutes, and perhaps you will get an authentic, clear answer to the questions raised by you. [[Attila Mesterházy's intervention.]] Please read it. Next. Let me have a few more responses. I'm just not sure I'll have enough time. Congressman Nándor Gúr called on György Raskó's statement on Magos. I'd like to tell you - there's no time to read it all the way through - to find it on your Facebook. Let me just add that: I wish I hadn't done this - this is for the interview - because it was terrible, it seemed that the newspaper had gone over to the other side of the horse. The published text isn't what I said, and certainly not with the edge that's written. But the full text can be read, and only to be specific. Congressman László Varga spoke to me, and I wasn't in the room at the time. Allow me to look on the screen myself. [[Attila Mesterházy: Me too.]] 'Cause we had a meeting in the middle. I have to say to you that yes, that is what I said, for no reason, because at that time the National Fund of Land was abolished, it was integrated into the Hungarian National Asset Management, and it was at that time that large sales units were set up, and they wanted to sell all the state land. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Nobody sold it!]] That's what I said, my dear fellow Member, that's exactly what I said. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How is it different now?]] And only foam on the cake, my dear Member - I hate to refer to it, but you know - about the person who organised this, although I am not right, I am sorry, the judgment at first instance has already been handed down by the independent Hungarian court. I'm just signaling for threats. I'm just signaling for threats, you know? Let me get this straight. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Okay, just don't have to sell it now.]]
u2015-10-26-316	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár as a pre-notified speaker.
u2015-10-26-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It's hard to say something new around the end of the debate. Several of my better-looking fellow Members have spoken about this issue, on the privatisation of agricultural land in various approaches, but I would also like to add a few thoughts to the debate, and I would like to give some examples of my narrower Patria, Hajdú-Bihar county, of why we are protesting this step, and of the experiences from which Jobbik is opposed. As has already been said, land is a national treasure, which is equivalent to treason. The other issue is what the pro-government representatives and opposition representatives mean by misbehaviour, but I feel that I will be very clear about it, and my fellow Members have done so. We also know that the land and water will be the greatest value in the coming decades, and this value must be preserved by the current Hungarian governments. As Zoltán Magyar said at the beginning in his keynote speech, this is also a matter of national security, and while we are talking about ground privatisation, let me quote the robbery privatisation that took place in the '90s. The then liberal Fidesz supported this, so it is no wonder that the Fidesz government brought this land-privateisation to the country. [[21.10]] We have repeatedly said that the Orbán government is not putting local family farmers in a position with public land lease applications, as it has soothing promises, but is using it to build a culture, and there is a fear that the practice will be similar with regard to the privatisation of state land. And then, as I promised at the beginning, I'd take some examples from Hajdú-Bihar County. Kaba, 2011-2012: 16 local farmers applied for land in association, all of them received a negative decision, as did the individual applicant, the local 8-10 farmers. On the other hand, applicants from other settlements won, and not just anyone with a fidesz attachment: the Fidesz mayor of Bihartorda or the then bishop-ladányi chief animal doctor with extremely good fidesz connections. But it also reached Hajdúböszörmény. As part of one of the applications of Hortobágy National Park, which was announced in January 2013, half of the land was won by the former municipal representative of Fidesz, who has been office manager of the National Land Fund Management in Hajdú-Bihar County since 2011. The ownership rights of the land distributed at the time were exercised and exercised by the employer of the winning lady, NFA. You can also say that this practice is legal, but extremely unethical, and we raised our voice against it in the past, and all you said was, quote Gyula Horn, "So what?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: We didn't say that.]] Speaking of Hortobágy National Park, this is where a Kehi investigation took place. During the audit of 428 applications, the Government Audit Office concluded that nearly 30 percent of the applications should not have been concluded, and of which 14 percent, more than 40 applications, the applicant provided false data or failed to comply with the terms of the tender. In a quarter of the remaining proposals, and in about 80 cases, the applicant won with the subjective scores of an economic plan. This is not said by opposition politicians, but contained in the Kehi report. Allow me, at the end of my speech, to share with you an experience of my own, which was a rather shocking experience. It was about fields between Váncsod and Mezőpeterd during the tender, and I spoke to an elderly farmer who has been farming his land for 42 years. He did not win the tender, he was practically driven off the earth along with his sheep. A young man in his 20s in town won this tender. In tears, the man told me this story. This is what we will always object to, and based on these experiences, it is not possible to support the privateisation of public land. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-10-26-318	Minister Sándor Fazekas has indicated his wish to speak to him. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-10-26-319	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have a few more questions I'd like to answer. The credit framework and why it looks like Congressman Róbert Benedek Sallai said it would be the case in the case of purchases. There's an objective limit to purchases, the land law itself. 300 acres, tops. So if the government wants to support small and medium-sized family farms, then this land law maximum - by the way, which has been there for decades - is quite a limit. Why did a man who never owned a farm win a bid? Dear Parliament, Here, there have been repeated objections to the ageing of the farming community, why we are not doing something, why we are not creating more jobs. If only those who are farming can get the opportunity, then the supplies will obviously be eliminated. So the government's goal is to win as many people as possible, as many young farmers as possible, for farming. Who can or can't rely on the farming community? Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you that in the 2014 elections, Fidesz-KDNP won in all rural areas, and the vote of farmers living in rural areas is included in this, unlike the votes given to LMP, I refer to the few percent that you were bravely given in another district. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I think we can rightly argue that the Hungarians in the countryside, the farming community, have accepted the agricultural policy of Fidesz-KDNP and documented this with votes. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I welcome Congressman Attila Mesterházy, and it is a pleasure to see you, Congressman; I do not believe that you have been here in Parliament more than I have. But what I would like to say is that, in any privatisation, I think it means overestimation of my practice. Besides, it's not a privatisation, it's an auction sale, unlike what you've done as a privatisation, with the sign of a downtick. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Because in your particular dictionary, privatization is, I think, a category of stretching and stealing. (Intercoms in the lines of the MSZP. ) You can't say that for an auction, honourable opposition, respected anti-host opposition league, because that's where it comes down to, standing up in public, and accepting how much you pay for a property. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] He doesn't settle in some clouded room. I can see that this is a painful subject for you, but it's the truth. Honourable Congressman, Agricultural subsidies: 80 percent and 20 percent, how do they rate? There's more than one way to count. There are area payments and there are additional rural development subsidies. I would just like to note quietly that during the previous EU cycle, during the governance of the MSZP, the current FVM programmed the use of the framework practically in advance. So what you object to is the result of the MSZP agricultural policy, adding that when we took over rural development funds, 85 percent of them were spent and tied down. [[Zoltán Haughty: That's luck, by the way.]] So the Fidesz government only had room for manoeuvre for 15 percent. Let's have this debate between ourselves, whether it was luck or not, in any case, you say, Congressman Mesterházy, that this has favored the great estate, says Zoltán Gőgös, that this is luck, so I see some contradiction here. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] If you throw this at us, that's how this frame was used. So I would like to stress that most of the framework has already been used and has already been on a fixed track. You are asking for a lack of trust, or you mention it, Congressman Mesterházy. I am convinced that it is enough for farmers to trust us, without the trust of the MSZP. There are 103,000 farmers, and there are about 50,000 landmarks. This means that, in fact, every second farmer has a chance to buy an area. 80 percent of the area is less than 10 hectares. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There's something wrong with the numbers.]] I need you to tell me what kind of oligarchs you can make of this. Congressman says there's something wrong here, so take a look, and we'll find out. The rate of agriculture in GDP is 3.5 percent, but the food economy is significantly more than that, 25 percent. And on employment - it was said here that employment could be increased - agricultural employment has always decreased at the time of the MSZP, since we have been on the government, and has been rising ever since, although it would obviously be better if it were to rise at an even higher rate. And we will continue to buy the land. There is a sales side to the operation of NFA, and there is also a part of the purchase. The government does not want to sell forestry farms, and I do not even know that someone was hunting pheasants with machine guns. I'm just saying this because your comment seemed serious so far, Congressman, but I regret to say that it wasn't, so I don't think it should be thrown that way. I'm forced to reject the threat of accounting. We Hungarian farmers must count towards Hungarian family farms, and this is exactly what is happening: we account for the agricultural policy and ownership policy that we do have to help them. On the basis of Mr Gergely Kulcsár's suggestion on certain land applications: there are 7700 winners in the field competitions, I am sure there are some things that are controversial, I do not like them, they are suing where people are working, and there are even mistakes. But it is part of the fact that the affected NFA employee has won a national park land and is a long-standing woman. There is no law or regulation that would make it impossible for you to rent from another territory. By the way, the application system obviously received a lot of criticism. Bidding auction is the reverse of that. So I do not understand that once the tendering system is criticized by you, what is your problem with the auction system, which is completely contrary to this philosophy. By the way, all the lawsuits against Hortobágy National Park have been won, as far as I know. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-320	I now give the floor to Congressman János Pócs for a two-minute comment. [[21.20]]
u2015-10-26-321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Please allow me not to pass a statement by Congressman György Lukács just because, you know, Congressman Luke, the county from which we both came, there is also a saying that a decent man does not mess with his own nest. Congressman, it is a shame that you are coming from Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County and proclaiming all farmers, farmers who have worked their lives fairly, who have taken the horn of the plow with their bare hands before you were born. Congressman, as far as you're concerned, is he guilty of working through his life, creating jobs, paying taxes? Congressman, you used physical violence when you took over the Presidential Pulpit in connection with the land law, and now you're proclaiming that you're going to take over government offices by physical force. Congressman, what I'm asking you to do is, when the Szolnok County Government Office is occupied and you're there, be brave for the farmers of whom you could be your son, look into your eyes. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: I'll be there. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-26-322	I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-26-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure they'll be interested in it, but I'd like to revisit the famous sociology of Hungarian writer Zoltán Fábri in the Highlands. Once again, I suggest you read what he wrote in his book The Legend of Hunger, about the town of Brother of Transcarpathia under the control of the Czechoslovakians. After the country mutilation in Trianon, the Czechoslovak authorities took the 3400 acres of Count Lónyay, of which 3398 acres were allocated to 75 Czechoslovak settlement families for free or long-term loans, and the village's color Hungarian population received 2 acres of land for 5 thousand crowns as cemeteries. So they stripped the community of its one and only resource. No misunderstanding, please do not twist my words, obviously the government would not now give the lands to Czechoslovakian settlers, but the fact that the interests of the particular community, the long-term goals of the Hungarian society, the survival of the countryside, are not in the light of the scandals that have taken place in the past, seems to be quite certain. 'Cause what's going on? What did the change of regime bring two and a half decades ago, say, in my narrower Patria in Somogy County? Most of the land here also has thick wallets, but in our area it would be said that it was obtained by foreign profiteers, often with dirty pocket contracts. The country is in the hands of Italian, Austrian and Belgian lords, which is no wonder, since in certain suspicious land affairs even the hand of the prosecutor and the Commissioner for Hero accountability trembled, and there was a case where the country conquerors managed to obtain an amount of 8 thousand hectares for 99 years, for 10 forints per hectare. And where this new landlord is not a stranger, most of them are Hungarians. A Latin American-style estate structure has been created, which is as far from the garden-Hungary idea, but even from the ideas of the national rural strategy as Mako from Jerusalem. This was done in several places within the county of land lease applications, as we know exactly from József Ángyán's 5th land report, almost half of the land lease applications in Somogy were won by three major interests. But it was also right to break the fuse among the farmers of Bábócsa, when the local Zrt. must have had good palmed-handed Pest university girls on the ground. In the last few years, the 12 big agricultural companies in South Somogy have spent 18 billion forints on land-based support alone. How much of this have the people here felt? Could this amount of money have been more useful? The population of the villages is vegetal, and already the second generation grows up in the poverty-stricken small settlements without seeing the parents go to work outside of the temporary community service. I would very much ask my fellow pro-government Members to think about this, because you know that all of this can be seen as a matter of national strategy, and that if they now give the land to the vassals, then the base on which the social or demographic land programme could be based will run out. I know that all this talk is sacrilegious in the pro-government benches, because I have had a fidesz fellow Member who, I quote, once replied to me this way, if someone had listened carefully to you and went into your soul, I think you would have been close to him to slitting your wrists. There is no such economic recovery or job creation in Europe and in the world as in Hungary. It's hard to improvise such a death compared to that, Mr. Puddles said. Unfortunately, I don't see it that way, but if you don't believe me, I'd be happy to invite you to visit a village in South Somogy. The social disaster in the countryside would require increased public involvement, so public land should not be sold, abandoned, but preserved. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-324	I now give the floor to Congressman Róbert Zsigó in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-10-26-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been thinking a lot about whether or not to comment. I also welcome Congressman Attila Mesterházy here on the day of debate relating to the sale of land. He came into the room and told us who couldn't account for his past, talked about who had a past, held a moral class, and taught us a lesson. With due respect, I would like to remind Mr Mesterházy of a glorious moment in his career, this autumn 2013 when hvg.hu released a video, this video of his troubles, as it later turned out, is a famously false video case in Baja. A few hours later, Attila Mesterházy, who was then president of the MSZP, stood up with Tamás Harangozó and held a press conference, where among other things he called me to resign. He still lectured me, and he still taught me a moral lesson. The thing is, we've won every lawsuit since then, by the way, but Attila Mesterházy hasn't apologized to his troubles since then, but anyway, we're used to it. And now Congressman Mesterházy is coming in here for the political debate day at 8:30 p.m., and he's giving us another lecture, and he's giving us another moral lesson on a case where the whole day and the whole afternoon is about wanting farmers and family farmers to, if they want to, give them land to farm and to support the Hungarian countryside, their families and rural people. Well, honourable Member, as in others, we do not ask you for advice on this either. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-26-326	Ladies and gentlemen, Attila Mesterházy applied in order of business, but I wouldn't give the floor yet, because I'm guessing it's about personal involvement. [[For signal:]] It is possible to comment on this at the end, and I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-26-327	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, I think there were quite large changes in Hungary, and the Hungarian nation decided then, the voters decided that what had been in the last eight years was being sent very far away, and 80 percent voted for the right at that time. I think that they voted for the right because the people, the voters believed that this country could indeed be changed by 80%. What has happened in the last 20 years before that, we will abolish it, forget it, and something new will come, and one of the most important things in this is that I believe that people believed that what marked privatisation, the robbing of Hungary in the first 20 years, that a right-wing government, an 80 percent on the right, will sweep away, even his memory, and that is why we were shocked by the fact that Fidesz has unfortunately taken the path of SZDSZ. There's no other way to put it. We are talking about, Minister, that privatisation cannot be compared to public auction sales. Well, what was the privatisation? Most of it was auction sales, so it's a question of who was able to go there. It's said here that everyone can start. Not at all. And that's not the point, the point is what's left of this country. People believed that they may have been too idealistic, believed in 2010 and I believe in 2014 that all right-wing people who have been in parliament regard the country as their heart and concern for what is left of this country. And what do you consider to be a matter of heart? The soil and the water, these two. I think there was no voter who believed that any right-wing party dared to touch and sell these two sacred things. Of course, if 3 hectares of land, which is somewhere in the corner, and no one needs to sell it, obviously there is no problem, but when the state consistently sells the vast majority of its land fortune, I think that is the most serious misdemeanor that can be committed against Hungary. [[21.30]] And you are talking about discussing all the important issues with the Hungarian nation, doing national consultations. Yes, they do national consultations on all issues where they are 100% sure of the answer. Protect Hungary? Who in Hungary is the man who says not, please don't defend Hungary? Okay, there's five percent, of course, but this is amazing, the culmination of treason! But why didn't they think about asking the Hungarian nation if they wanted us to sell the Hungarian land? You say: we asked the Hungarian farmers. Yes, but let's ask the Hungarian pensioners if they want a 100% pension increase. Yeah, 95 percent say yes, we do - so you're gonna do it? You cannot distinguish between individual interest and Community interest. Your responsibility, the responsibility of a responsible government and a responsible parliamentary majority, is to be able to distinguish, bring individual interests and community interests to a platform, to properly consider and to conclude what is good for the state, not for a group, but for the citizens of the Hungarian nation, so to speak. And that's the problem. You can't tell the difference or you don't want to make a difference. And what's the price? How do we look at you? There's nothing else we can do. Who was your political predecessor who thought the same way as you? I hear the same from Minister and others, I can't tell you anything else, I can tell you a name: Gábor Kuncze's name. You are Viktor Orbán and you are the political reincarnations of Gábor Kuncze. This is what the sale of agricultural land in Hungary means. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-328	I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-26-329	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, There are a number of points that I would like to respond respectfully to. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to go back in time significantly, since I've collected these. I would like to respond to the speeches of some of my fellow socialists - in parentheses - to those who are competent. Mr Haughty said that employees are being protected on this issue. I would like to point out to Mr President that this would have been a good thing if they had done so during their governance, when the number of people living in agriculture has steadily decreased and I would like to draw attention to another number: since 2010, this figure has increased by 10 percent. Mr. Congressman has been saying that in 20 years this land will be owned by foreigners, since the ban on disposal will expire. Congressman, if this land traffic law is to be in force, you must know very well that the NFA will still have a pre-emptive right. And the reason we think, by the way, is that we strengthen farmers who really want to make a living in the Hungarian countryside, so that they can be competitive, so that they can compete with these lands and do not have to sell what they own now, besides the state estates. Congressman, you said you'd take the land back from the speculators. It is not the first time that you consider the entire Hungarian farming society lazy, speculators, and the nostalgia that comes from the time of the theaesthetic system, it is understandable, since your father was a President of the Theess. I would be unfair not to add that he is a respected man, so that is fair, but I also think that this type of farming structure has failed in Hungary. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It still works, Balázs!]] And we don't want this back. Mr President, when we talk about what will happen to Hungarian agricultural land and how it will become the property of foreigners, you forgot one thing and did not mention it. The fact that the pocket contracts were created in support of your assistance was governed by you then. [[Zoltán Pride: You can't prove that either!]] And let us not forget that you too were stewards of the Hungarian agricultural land, but only you specifically wanted to give the land to large foreign businesses and capitalised people, so we still think that you are in the best place with Hungarian farmers. Mr Belló also made criticism, but, Mr President, I think that the MSZP also rented land, and indeed, the concept of sales unit was introduced to the Hungarian countryside during your governance. The fact that Hungarian agricultural land is sold at a tithe price is a rather false announcement from you, Congressman, how much agricultural land costs in the other part of the world, with this force everyone would come to Hungary, say, from Switzerland and England, to a hairdresser, and everyone would want to go to bed here for the evening. Obviously, these prices are not comparable from a distance of thousands of miles. And to avoid Parliament - I'm sorry, Mr. Congressman, but I was mayor between 2006 and 2010, I have some recollection of how the county government offices had to be terminated without a two-thirds mandate with government decisions, so it should have been here, and the Constitutional Court has canceled you on this matter. I would like to say to my colleague in Sallai, I think that this is not compensation. No one's talking about it. Here these lands are not given to farmers, but are given the opportunity to buy them. And we should not be alarmed, honourable Member, by not selling all the land in the state, this is 20% of all the land in the state. And the state only sells what it doesn't use. What you're using remains state-owned. And I also don't agree with the fact that farmers would be trapped in a loan trap. Mr. Congressman, farmers do not buy color TV on this loan, but rather a production tool, which, by the way, is responsible for managing at the appropriate level, can easily be repaid, especially with the condition that we all know. I can say to you that agricultural employment has increased by 10 percent since 2010. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The villages will still be depopulated.]] Mr. Congressman, you see the state land fortune... Mr. President, sometimes I would ask for a little help, but I do not necessarily wish to listen to Mr. Grimlock's musical background during the speech. Thank you very much. So you're saying that you consider state land assets as a guarantee of the future. Congressman, this is actually just a step towards nationalization. I think that the guarantee of the future is the young generation, and I think we should also point out one thing in this circle: let us not fool those who have neither capital nor expertise that this is a career for them. I think it would be very good for every family economy to have a successor, who will take over, and I think that they will be able to give the backbone of future agriculture. However, this requires land, stable land, and I believe that this is why it is well placed at Hungarian agricultural enterprises, farmers, on agricultural holdings. I would like to respond to my better fellow Members. We see that there is a substantive debate between us, and, apart from debate, we were able to have quite a constructive conversation, which I thank you for, although it started out a little passionately, but then, I think that we could talk normally about a lot of things. The representatives of Jobbik do not make it clear to me what their intention is: to stay in the European Union or not to stay? If we remain in the European Union and need it and want to use the HUF 4000 billion available in the next planning period, it should be noted that certain laws or rules of the game must be complied with within the Union. By sending this HUF 4000 billion to the Hungarian countryside, Hungarian farmers will have a chance to be able to manage successfully and competitively after 2020, in what environment, who knows? And the Holy Crown doctrine, that's what the debate was about. We have a disagreement, or at least a question of interpretation. I would like once again to say that I respect the Holy Crown doctrine and also the one who, by the way, claims that it is justified, but I believe that it is difficult to highlight certain elements of it and to ignore others. If you really believe that the Holy Crown doctrine must be the basis of the Hungarian constitutional order, you have every right to do so, then, in my legal understanding, you also say that every Hungarian land must be owned by the Holy Crown. And that, in my reading, could mean nothing more than nationalization. In order to ask the Hungarian farmers what they are asking, I would encourage you to ask the Hungarian farmers what they would say about the fact that no one outside the Hungarian state can own land on the basis of the St. Crown doctrine. That's an interesting and powerful saying. Whether this can be solved by the fact that there is a St. Crown doctrine, and there is a land ownership, is an interesting question. Congressmen, you're trying to stop the bidding by physical means. I urge you not to, and I believe that this is rather morbid and dangerous within the parliamentary framework. But there was another interesting question, didn't Jobbik challenge the amendments to the legislation on land sale procedures before the Constitutional Court with the main reason that only Hungarian citizens can participate in them. If you know what you have signed, I think you know that the face of the Hungarian Congressman tells you a lot about this, he obviously disagrees with this Schiffer-Vona pact, but you also agree to this when you address why you have signed the petition in which you complain that only Hungarian citizens can enter this bid. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[21.40]]
u2015-10-26-330	I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to comment on the debate in the remaining timeframe. [[For signal:]] Yeah, there are already candidates. First, I give the floor to Hungarian Zoltán in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-26-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to react again. The fact that we mentioned in the explanatory statement that you are referring to the fact that the Land Traffic Act will apply to sales, and this also means that not only Hungarian citizens can participate in this land license in principle, that is a fact. Minister Fazekas also confirmed in the debate that the bidding will take place under the Land Traffic Act. From here on out, you created this whole situation. We have drawn attention to this, and we very much hope that the Constitutional Court will take the necessary steps, and that the legal possibility that you will now carry out this ground-privatisation will be removed. Anyone who may have joined the debate towards the end of the debate and started to follow the debate may seem to have had a sensible professional debate here in the last few hours, because the Minister is here, because we are certainly negotiating a law that may be very important once it is about to privatise the remaining national assets. Anyone who may be following us in this misconception would be disappointed that there is no mention that the Hungarian Parliament is now negotiating any important laws with elected Members of Parliament, since you have not taken the courage and the trouble to bring this here in law, so that the House can discuss this extremely important issue at all. The property of ten million Hungarian citizens, one of the last national assets, will be privatised in such a way that neither they have been asked, nor us, Members, who represent these citizens. It was only after the signing of opposition representatives that we could bring the law to Parliament for at least these few hours. The Committee on Agriculture did not discuss it either as a commission, and we were able to exchange some ideas about it only at the meeting of the Supervisory Sub-Committee, and only because opposition representatives asked for it and signed it, and we still have such powers. I also think Minister Fazekas would have been better off sitting in this debate, but it is a very cardinal, very important matter, and it was rather strange to see the backbone of the debate, and the Minister left out four hours of it. I'm not surprised you didn't realize that Jobbik had put a complete, elaborate plant law on the table, which you weren't willing to negotiate, couldn't get here before the National Assembly. So please don't ask us to do what we can on this matter. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I want the land law.]] And the fact that Fidesz had a programme that was accepted after 2010 after winning the elections does not replace the fact that before the elections your voters should have looked your voters in the eye, and they should have said that we were indeed preparing to sell the rest of the national wealth, which, by the way, was not even dared to put their hands on. President James said how fortunate it is that we can debate and talk about this in this House. I would also like to say to him that this was not up to you, on the government side, on the creators of the idea, but also because of the signing of the opposition. And the fact that the KDNP, the Christian Democratic People's Party, took this debate so seriously today that it gave almost its complete timeframe to the government side, I think it's quite talkative. None of their Members took part in this debate. The fact that, later on, what we assume is what speculators and governments are getting close to this land, that there is a debate between us, I do not wonder, is that the practical experience of recent years shows that we, opposition representatives, are certainly right about this. Even though it is said a hundred times between the walls of Parliament that the well-known, well-known gas mechanic Lőrinc Mészáros is a farmer with the palms of his hands, we will not believe that this billionaire gentleman would be the most suitable person with whom you will be able to prove that you are supposed to help family farmers living in the area. They did have such a slogan, and they often refer to it, but I beg you, after at least so many years of practical experience, add that you were actually willing to help family farmers close to Fidesz. This is also a fundamental problem between us, however, that if we do not define what a family farmer means until you are willing to talk about a plant law, you are not willing to clarify the concepts, we will always talk about each other, because you may find that families with fidesses of 1000-1500-2000 ha are family farmers. Not for us. Allow us not to think about it in this category, and especially not family farmers with 1 500 hectares of arable crops alone. And I believe that it will make you happy and satisfy you that you are helping them, but when we talk about locally living family farmers, we don't think about them. Nor can it be a coincidence that the national rural strategy, which has also been mentioned today, could not come before the Parliament, that, by the way, I have asked my colleague from LMP to renegotiate it or to come to the House once. It says a lot about you that there is a strategy that is supposed to define the future of the Hungarian countryside by 2020 and is not able to bring it in at halftime to the Parliament and discuss how we stand, because it would have turned out that, for example, you are going to face up to what was already outlined in this rural strategy. In conclusion, we did not receive any arguments that would convince us that this draft privatisation could be supported. All I can say to Minister is that it's an outrage, and I want it withdrawn before they do this madness. And if, at least, they are not willing to do so, they should at least suspend this privatisation until a genuine national consultation on such a truly important issue is carried out, and a referendum on this matter would not hurt, for it is indeed one of the last strategic assets of our nation that you have not been authorized to sell. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-332	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2015-10-26-333	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell Mr. Secretary that math doesn't come out, so I'm sure the size of the area doesn't match, but he'll probably answer that. It doesn't add up, no matter how we calculate, it's bigger areas. And let me give you an example: for example, Mezőhegyes 14 percent over 100 hectares; over 100 hectares. By the way, please welcome the Minister from Mezőhegyes. Here are the text messages, and they're looking forward to the demonstration on the 15th, and there, please tell those 400 people that they don't need their jobs, and they're gonna lose their jobs, and then the mayor and the council are gonna destroy the city on purpose. Because you've already said that, and you've said it again. You're expected with great respect. And you'll have to tell me who's going to supply the water to the majors if that happens. Welcome from the Chamber to my fellow Member Font [[Complaining from the benches of Fidesz: What is this, sent by heart?]] who has arranged to take the land around his own estate, even though it is within 20 kilometers, but three villages away, and now he can buy it, because it is three years later I was. A lot has been said here. We're not calm yet. We don't calm down because they didn't talk about this, about authority in the campaign. Since they started talking and acting, they've lost three interim elections, and I just want to say it. This should be a warning, and we should be more careful about these things, because this process is very difficult, but it can be reversed, but it must be an inconvenience. We have made it clear that from every speculator who now lands, we will take back the land. By the way, the government decision gives us the right to do this, and you did this. There's nothing wrong with that, because I'm still saying that anyone who buys 36-year-old land with rental rights is not a farmer. It is not a farmer because the farmer wants to buy land where, say, it can be used within a reasonable time. Therefore, the clear speech is, let us say, the young farmer who wants to keep mangalicas in the pasture near Nagyestergal, by the way, by shutting down a livestock farm there, because they took the pasture from them... - they did not undo it, my fellow Member. It's been like that ever since, everyone sees that this land is in the hands of rogues, not in the hands of the right people, and I could say that this land is in the hands of tax frauds. They didn't do anything about it, they let a dairy farm with about 10,000 litres of lactation come into existence with 20-25 families, and now two. This is Fidesz's land policy. That's what we say, that we protect jobs, that we never protect the farmers. I have one more short comment. I had a driver, I was a secretary of state for four years, but he didn't buy 150 acres of land for 160 million forints, like the congressman's driver. Thank you very much for your attention. [[21.50]]
u2015-10-26-334	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-10-26-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just because you were concerned, Congressman Győrffy, that he would not be addressed: it was nice to say before that they only sell what the state does not use. The right to use it should not be taken away from later governments, in case someone could do something with 380 thousand hectares, in case anyone had any idea how to create a job. The problem is, if they get away with this, they're gonna take the law away forever, and that's the problem. So it's not about selling only what they don't use; it's about much more. I would also like to ask my fellow Member to honor each other by not saying these demagogic things as nationalisation. Neither do the Jobbik want to nationalize, nor do we. It's not like that. No one wants to nationalize me. We want the state to keep its assets. If we're talking at this level, I can say that it's your earth traffic law that puts the state into pre-emptive law on the first level, not us. So it's not like that. We just want the state to keep the wealth you say it's not that much, because it's defined as 5 percent of the land. I think the debate is about whether the state should own land or not. That's what we had to exchange ideas about today. He asked my better fellow Members not to stop the auctions. I'm a big fan, and where I can be, I'll be involved in stopping as much as possible, but I'm happy to be constructive. We can do this. [[Balázs Győrffy: Step back!]] I will withdraw from this without further ado, but I ask you to bring me a referendum result and I will speak no more against it. Or bring in the NFA Act, which doesn't give you the authority to sell everything. And yet another important question to Mr Pócs, I say slowly that you should understand: the debate is about who the small and family farmer is. As Congressman Luke said, those who receive hundreds of millions should not be helped. Let them keep their fortunes. We respect them, we love them, but those who need help are not included. And obviously the important issue is who the land will come to, who you will help. We'll be curious about the results. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-336	I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-10-26-337	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I find the fidesz attitude of talking about Schiffer-Vona pact and of selling the land to foreigners amaze me. Well, it is shocking when it is the fact that you have freed the Hungarian agricultural land market for 500-600-700 million foreign citizens or non-Hungarian citizens. It's amazing they're trying to pin this on us. The other thing, as time is very short, is that I would like to read one more thing to Minister from the interpreter's manual dictionary. Privatisation: the private administration and sale of property owned by the State. What if it's not privatization? You can't sugarcoat that. Don't sugarcoat it, it's privatization. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-338	Thank you. In the remaining timeframe, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-10-26-339	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It was admirable that we received no response from Fidesz when Csaba Gyüre accused you of privatizing us again, like the SZDSZ. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: There will be an answer!]] There was no answer. I'll tell you why. Because how have you established in 20 years until 2010 to privatize the country to eliminate almost everything? What did the SDS say? The state's not a good farmer. That was the basic calling word, which is why we had to sell everything, because the state is not a good farmer, and then come the owners who will be good farmers. They came to the sugar factories and everywhere, and then there's nothing. What do you say now? It's the same thing the SDS said back in the day. They say the state is not a good farmer. And we disagree with that. We say that the Hungarian state property should be protected, not only must it be protected, but - if it is called nationalisation, then nationalisation - the state of Hungarian land assets should be increased. But this isn't nationalization, by the way. And if nationalization is used as a curse, then I don't know why the utility companies that you've tried to take back from those people, from the foreign companies to whom the SZDS and MSZ have squandered were taken back. Is that nationalization, too? By the way, it's very nice that we took it back. So we say that the Hungarian state lands must be protected, there is no need to sell, no need to privatise and no need to stray. That's the Jobbik's position. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-340	Thank you. I'm just asking the Fidesz faction if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. Congressman Font Sándor has spoken. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-10-26-341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that the opposition simply sees the entire Hungarian economy as a tax fraud oligarch, which announced its natural need to gain strength and gain land and to farm for several generations. In the substantive debate about what was in the title of the debate, there was actually little talk. We have always tried to hold the debate in this field, but especially the left-wing opposition has brought up 25-year-old grievances. Surprisingly, Jobbik and LMP, who have not yet taken part in governance, joined the left-wing assembly with the initiative of this debate day and tried to draw up a virtual picture. I am afraid that with this idea you will not really be friends with Hungarian farmers. I believe that the idea that you know exactly - I am talking about the idea of giving state land to farmers - contains guarantee elements that you know: a 20-year ban on disposal, a ban on debit, which means a serious loan programme. With this, we can conclude the debate that we have been having here in Parliament for 25 years on what individual governments are doing with state-owned land. You have been criticizing us for five years because we have launched the land for the farmers' programme for the rental system. You can tell me now that we're finishing this lease system and we're not gonna do it anymore because we're gonna own the land, why they're gonna tell us we're not gonna do that. Should we go back to the eternal debate that lasted 25 years? It's not worth it. I think successful land auctions will prove that our vision was on a realistic footing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-26-342	Ladies and gentlemen, The factions have run out of time, so I will give the floor to Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas in a maximum of 20 minutes.
u2015-10-26-343	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This debate was very instructive, and I was here in a large part, and I was able to monitor television broadcasting. I think that we may have been part of a recurring debate, since there have been arguments and counter-arguments on several previous occasions. I remember that this land sale program has been on the agenda since the summer, so there's no way to say that society has been struck by lightning in the last few weeks by what's been going on here. Unfortunately, Mr Róbert Benedek has already had to leave, although I also wanted to respond to what he said. [[Lajos Kepli: He's watching the broadcast.]] I agree with many of Mr Ander's points, and I consider them to be considered in a significant way. He also laments that the land is not owned by Hungarian farmers. That's a serious problem for us, too. There are many thousands and thousands of hectares that are in the hands of foreigners long before Fidesz had the opportunity to govern. We are also doing everything we can to get this back into Hungarian property. We want to give the land precisely to Hungarian farmers. If Jobbik wants to nationalise in reality compared to this, then I do not understand the idea of the Member, at least I do not understand it, then you want to take away from farmers even the land they have, and you want to see it as state-owned. I think that the Hungarian economy needs to be made clear what Jobbik wants. Even here in Parliament, there are controversial opinions on your part. It is worth considering what the actual right-wing position is then, adding that in the Constitutional Court's submission, however, they object to the fact that Hungarian citizens will be able to buy land at the auctions. At least this looks like a series of serious contradictions. Of course, you are very pleased that you do not see this contradiction; it must be possible to bridge it with some excellent logic. [[György Szilágyi: The Hungarian citizen and the natural person are two different concepts!]] You'll have to take a look at your own motion. Congressman Csaba Gyüre says that not everyone can go to an auction. Indeed, the local Hungarian farmer can start at these auctions, most of which are small areas - thousands of parcels. [[22.00]] After all, between 3 and 10 hectares there are 5551 parcels, between 10 and 30 hectares 2145 parcels are present in the advertising position. I can't believe this would cause the oligarchs to shift and investors to push through the auctions. But by the way, whether or not farmers were asked by someone: farmers have already expressed an opinion on whether they want to buy land. Between 2011 and 2015, the National Land Fund concluded some 7,000 contracts only for areas below 3 hectares, with at least 8-10 thousand standing in line, and continuous demand for areas larger than 3 hectares. So this is what people want to buy. They respect the St. Crown doctrine, but they do not want it to be owned by the Holy Crown, nor do they want it to be owned by the Hungarian State, because let's say, if the Hungarian State is in an undivided joint with a few percent, it means a special burden and administration, and I do not think there is any national strategic interest in keeping these tens of thousands of parcels in the Hungarian state. What you must keep, I stress, what is necessary, will, of course, remain state-owned. After all, it affects 20 percent of the state's land, in the forest, in the expoze and in the debate, the fields of research institutes, university research institutes, the fields of stud farms, agricultural training institutions and protected areas remain, of course, state-owned. The pocket contract is the next question. I would like to say that our government is the first to implement a series of concrete measures against pocket contracts. From the provisions of the Earth Law, we have seized every means available through the Btk. to ensure that pocket contracts cannot be legalized. On special paper contracts can be concluded, and I see that a significant part of the pocket contract owner has given up and is selling this area. So you can't take ownership, and so this problem, which has accumulated over two decades, can be eliminated step by step, day by day. Zoltán Magyar: we are not really negotiating a law, the trial of the law has already been carried out along with the circus you gave in the vote. It was not worthy of the subject and I think it was also of Parliament. How worthy he was of you, I'm sure you'll decide. However, you voted in favour of the National Earth Fund Act, honourable Member, and the whole Jobbik, if I remember correctly, voted in favour of the law; you have obviously considered the possibilities for the Hungarian state, whether in areas below 3 hectares or above. The plant law. I didn't ask you for the plant law, I asked for the land law. You want to say "b" without saying "a." It's in the air until then. Or maybe they're trying to produce a law of operation in line with the land law you've disturbed with a bell? I think there's more question marks here than the answer. Obviously, it's a valuable material, and I'm sure I'll have time to look at the suggestions. But I am well aware that it has already been said here, within these walls, why you do not prepare your land law, honourable Member. Well, that's because the paper can't handle it. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The fact that they come out with an open nationalization is too strong to describe. Here in Parliament, you can laugh at this, you can give examples of this at midnight, but I think it is clear here that it is spoken orally for you, it has been promised several times, but in practice you cannot put it on the table. For family farms, we still have legislation on what constitutes a family farm. It's obviously something to argue about. There are smaller and larger families, smaller and larger family farms. By the way, the land law is subject to a maximum of 300 hectares of ownership, and we have also adjusted agricultural subsidies and even lease rules so that the absolute ceiling of 1200 hectares is also applicable to leases, including area payments. That's why there's a limit to growth there. And let's not confuse leases with property. Because someone or someone may be renting quite a lot of land, but it's not the same as what's in their real property. These two things should be dealt with separately in this case, because either we come to general statements or we are completely misled. Zoltán Gőgös: who buys land with a 36-year lease is a speculator. Well, Congressman, you've obviously told me this... I don't see it, I don't know where it is. Welcome back or you're still here. But, Congressman, if we don't put out these areas now, you're gonna cry out sloppy, you're gonna cry out speculation on the part of the state. You now object to the fact that the state has issued a contract for the purchase of land that is still leased for 36 years. And if we don't print it, what do you say? He says that someone has managed to keep them out of this sales ring. I think we should leave that to the people involved. If you want this area, you'll be bidding on it, and if you can make a deal with the owner, it's their business. I don't think that's speculation, because there are farmers in that circle who can take part in the bidding. On behalf of Robert Benedek Sallai, there was a question about the farmers. He's mixing the lease with the property, isn't he? That's no wonder, because he set himself a pretty ambitious goal in the lease. I don't want to repeat this, but he obviously sees the lease system of the major estates as well as the land ownership conditions of small and medium-sized family farms, based on his own practice. Dear Parliament, The share of small and medium-sized family farms has increased in recent years. If the timeframes allow, I would like to draw your attention to this, and we are always talking about strengthening small and medium-sized family farms, because the big ones, I agree, will manage. This does not mean, of course, that large family farms should be specifically persecuted. I think that by reflecting on Mr Gögös's job in the field, it should be added that the area, the company, was purchased or stolen by some leaders, knowing precisely that the lease period would end. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] So they could count on it, a pre-lease right is not the same as a lease right, so they could expect that one day the lease would be completed. Csaba Gyüre's suggestion: privatization - from what I can see, he quoted the word. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes.]] Yes, it is undoubtedly a formal language definition. Another question is that that is not exactly what the common language means, honourable Member. That's not exactly what you mean when someone buys something at a public auction. Privatization is, in the common language sense, a SZDSZ, MSZP downlink. Even if you bring 40 dictionaries here to prove that or otherwise. And it has been said repeatedly that the earth is a national treasure. Isn't it a national treasure when the land is owned by Hungarian farmers? If it's not a national treasure then what is it? I believe in my belief that the earth is a national treasure, a special value. Even if it is owned by Hungarian farmers. And we need to help them to farm it, to get it, even if there are 3 and 5 hectares of this national treasure. Then perhaps it is even better to play an integral role in other lands. I don't think Fidesz or we have anything to do with this. For two decades, we've been wrestling with the SDS in Parliament and the elections. I don't remember ever saying the state wasn't a good farmer. The Hungarian state can be a good farmer, by the way. Obviously, there are services in which the form of a company is really a matter of choice. It's like an office or an institution, the electorate or the citizen doesn't have much choice to use water supply or sewerage from, say, other water and sewers. But there are companies that live in the world of profit, there are companies where the role of the state has to be considered, even permanently. But, honourable Member, the Hungarian state does not farm in these lands. The Hungarian state is renting these lands. So your analogy is completely unfounded, because here you can not claim good farming on the Hungarian state, but rather whether you are good at renting these areas. He rents it, and others farm it, who could otherwise be owners, while trying to own as much as possible. This is a development model in Western Europe, where farmers farm in their own lands as owners, they do not use leases. Several people deny that, but believe me, Congressman, this is the reality, this is the true chemical model, that the owner is farming in his own land. This can be debated, but still, I think that this objective is realistic, to move Hungarian agriculture in the direction that as many people as possible can farm on their own land, and then their incomes and agricultural subsidies will not be transferred to the incomes of landowners. [[22.10]] I'm just checking to see if there's any more questions I haven't answered. I've been trying to dodge a little bit. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I think this debate has certainly been useful, because it appears here that different positions have been summarised. We believe that we must continue to work in the direction of Fidesz-KDNP, the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, so that the land belongs to the person who actually cultivates it. So the state, which was the owner and landlord in these cases, can help Hungarian family farmers, small and medium-sized farmers, farmers, if it allows them to obtain the land they want to buy, to buy them. I think it is good for the whole country to have farmers who are not tenants and tenants on their land, but owners, because the Hungarian peasantry always wanted to be the owner. Even when he was in a better position, even when he was a half tenant or a rancher or a farm servant, and we could still list the solutions that kept Hungarian people, the Hungarian peasants, away from the land. This is an old idea, an old need, an old desire, if you like, and now we can get one step closer to meeting this ancient demand of Hungarian peasantry, the Hungarian farming community. I am very sorry that there has been an anti-host opposition league here in connection with a constitutional submission that specifically attacks the government because the Hungarian citizen wants to help farmers, Hungarian citizens working on the ground, trying to open up the possibility of supplementing and enriching their properties. Obviously, you will see that this does not take too much time, in a few weeks, in a few months' time, whether it was worth joining forces here with the liberals on the left, the Jobbik with the entire left-wing opposition on this issue, where we could hear seemingly confusing and controversial arguments, but the common denominator, the anti-ownerism, is there. I trust that we will succeed in this, and I trust that this debate has contributed to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-10-26-344	Ladies and gentlemen, The political debate is closed and in a two-minute time frame I give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, who has asked for the opportunity to speak on account of his personal involvement.
u2015-10-26-345	Thank you very much. Mr President, Robert Zsigo's words moved me to ask for a word, or I wouldn't have. The Member also has considerable experience in where, when, and how he lies, since he has done so many times as a spokesman. This is demonstrated by the number of MTI communications he had to apologize for, to give a correction of what he said as a Fidesz spokesman. I see that you're continuing as Secretary of State, which I fully understand, that if you're in charge here, you need to run like a decent puppy to protect the boss. However, I would recommend to the Member that he get used to the fact that if we are being lectured, we will not tolerate it quietly here in Parliament, and we will respond to it. If it bothers you, don't sit in Parliament. [[Róbert Zsigó intervenes.]] I want you to find yourself another decent job. And if it's land, do you know what I was thinking? The fact that you've been around the world four times with the money you've co-financed as mayor of Baja for your reimbursement, so be careful of moral values. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-26-346	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would give the floor to Congressman László Varju if he were here, but he is not here as usual, as he has not been in the past. For this reason, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró to speak after the agenda. So far, it's more of a reverse... The government's approach to higher education is desperate. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-10-26-347	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In recent months, I have visited 14 higher education institutions to find out on the spot about the state of universities and colleges, the educational and scientific work that is going on there, and to see with my own eyes the situation of the workers. I went to ELTE, Semmelweis University, University of Arts, Corvinus University, St. Stephen's University, Miskolc, Debrecen, Szeged, Pécs, Győröt, the Academy of Music, the College of Dance, the University of Physical Education and Gábor Vona, together with President Gábor Vona, visited Róbert Károly College in Gyöngyös. After visiting higher education institutions, I think that there is a clear underfunding that is present in higher education, as the Orbán government has spent about HUF 50 billion on funding universities and colleges over the last five years in a way that can be monitored in the budget. While at the same time trying to make it seem that higher education is wasteful, the institutions do not manage well, but, if this amount is taken into account, it can be seen that it is rather the withdrawal that is the problem with funding higher education, not the waste, but, of course, I do not want to vote for any irregularities. Underfunding is further exacerbated by the poor allocation of funds, so I have encountered a number of cases where meaningful investments have been made in universities and colleges, while otherwise facing daily problems. But besides money, there are also attitudes issues with the government. The fundamental question is what does the government consider universities to be. Several answers can be given to this, and based on the measures taken in recent years, especially by the creation of the Chancellor's system and the consistors, it is clear that universities are seen as one-time executive agencies by the government and want to impose their own will on them. On the other hand, Jobbik sees higher education institutions as a spiritual centre and autonomous institutions, which can guarantee that they can function properly in a professional and academic life. This is a very important difference in approach between the government and us, and unfortunately, the actions of the past period have increasingly reduced the autonomy of the institutions and increasingly wanted to enforce its maintenance rights. On many occasions, we have also seen that the government is not student - friendly. We believe that the people who need to be mentioned first and foremost by higher education, the students, should be the ones who should be at the centre. Higher education should also have a very important role in social mobilisation, and this can be said for the whole education, but also in Hungary there is a very high proportion of those whose wallet determines how far they can move forward in life. So in Hungary, a child born into a poor family has a very small chance of ascending, and as a working person, he no longer has to live in poverty. It is therefore important to show that there is both public education and higher education, and this requires a student-friendly approach. Students should be made aware of the fact that higher education is for them and that the proposals of student organisations should be considered in substance by the State Secretary-General and the Government. In addition, the range of untapped opportunities is characteristic of higher education. Think of emigration, emigration in Hungary, so we can talk about the problems of resupply of researchers and a number of programmes in the field of talent management that are not working effectively. In the last five years, since Fidesz took over government, there has been no wage arrangement in higher education. This is an extremely clear choice of value on the part of the government, if that can be called value. As a consequence, there are fundamental problems in many disciplines, in many sectors, with the replacement of researchers and teachers. For the past five years, these people's work has not been worth enough to raise and settle their salaries. I believe that education and higher education must primarily be seen as an investment, and that universities-colleges are intellectual centres, and that higher education can be effective. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-26-348	Mr. Secretary of State indicates you'd like to answer. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-349	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, I fully agree with you that learning is the only thing that will help eliminate social differences. Learning is a chance for everyone to emerge from where they were born, to become richer with a new life or a new chance. All this learning can provide for children. [[22.20]] Believe me, I say this because I myself was born in a poor village in Szabolcs, from which I could learn and then later become a university teacher. I know this process, and I know what it means for a villager to have access to higher education. I also know that this higher education and the whole education system is only worth something if it provides knowledge, value for students, if it gives them a value-proof and an opportunity that they can then live with as a treasure. If it's mass training, it's a commercial training, if we're just going to the quantitative figures, we're practically giving students an illusion, not a chance to be happier in this life. In December 2014, the government adopted the Higher Education Strategy, the document "Training in Higher Education" which sets strategic targets for higher education, special intervention areas, planned objectives and actions in the fields of education excellence, world-class research and social responsibility by 2030. The aim of the higher education strategy is to operate the higher education system, highly positioned in the international educational and research space, which is capable of responding to societal challenges and which determines Hungary's economic success. Higher education of the right size and quality in Hungary can respond to both social and economic challenges. The concept of higher education includes guidance for a period of 15 years, which sets out the objectives and tasks necessary for the development of performance-based Hungarian higher education. Thanks to quality education and competitive training in higher education, it will also be able to finance its activities through external resources, adapted to labour market expectations, social needs, demographic change and research and development and innovation processes. In previous periods, the functioning of public higher education institutions was characterised by a complete or partial lack of opaque management and unregulated processes, as well as internal and external control. As a result of previous government measures - highlighting the status of economic directors-general and the appointment of budgetary supervisors - the effectiveness of the institutions has not improved significantly, separate budget support was needed from 2013 to ensure that the solvency of each institution remains sustainable. The Act on National Higher Education contains the most important rules for the Chancellor from 24 July 2014. The first chancellors actually started their operations on 15 November 2014. One year after the chancellors' entry, it can be established that the individual and group performance of the Chancellors confirms the government's expectations about the design of the system. The functioning of higher education institutions has become more transparent, the economic and financial functioning of the institutions is more rational, more predictable, and their debt is constantly falling, while their money is increasing. Of course, the additional resources won should be devoted to quality development in higher education and research. The increase in support for the higher education sector from 2015 to 16 is 3.4 percent, and the support is numerically increasing from HUF 191.6 billion to HUF 198.1 billion. It follows that the under-financing or poor allocation of resources mentioned in the speech is not based on the facts. You are right that there could be more, but we must respect what the economy can do at the moment. In addition, it is true that the number of students participating in higher education is constantly decreasing as a result of demographic changes. In addition to the subsidy item provided in previous years, it is worth mentioning more than HUF 5 billion in additional resources to replace the previous failed PPP scheme, which can be exceeded with the government's permission under the terms specified. This will also be followed in the years to come by source insurance for this purpose. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-350	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian national minority spokesperson Alexov Lyubomir came forward after the next agenda. I'll give you the floor in five minutes with the title, "Remembrance of 575 Years of Living Together."
u2015-10-26-351	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, From the dynastic relations of the early Árpád era to the event in Yugoslavia in the 1990s, there are many examples of Serbian settlers moving to Hungary, in most cases saving their lives as refugees. The temporary stay has become a permanent establishment. During the centuries of living together, there were also stormy and peaceful periods. Since good neighbourly relations are supported by good examples, I would like to give you a positive example of Hungarian-Serbian coexistence by strengthening what was said at the joint Hungarian-Serbian government meeting on 1 July 2015. On 10 October this year was the 575th anniversary of King Ulaszló's signature of the certificate from Keve, Al-Duna, in 1440. Kevei, fleeing from the Turkish sultan Murád, bringing their royal privileges to Serbs, using medieval language for the lads to settle on the island of Csepel and form their second free royal city here. The Kevei fleeing on grain ships brought with them, under the leadership of Judge Peter, all the certificates granting their free royal city privileges, which were issued by the 19th century. I was kept in the archives of Rackeve in the first century. The natural beauty of the established town, Ráckeve, its architectural values, its monuments, the atmosphere of the city and its cultural offer have always been and will remain a precious treasure. The values that have determined the image of the city since it was founded are equally important today. Their care and care are common goals. The diversity that was characteristic of the centuries after the settlement was founded can be observed now. Today, of course, it is not the ethnic groups, but the situations of life, the diversity of human activity. Of course, if we were to talk only about the establishment of a city, it would be important in itself. During the reign of King Matthias, the settled Serbian merchant and industrialist layer, together with the Hungarians of Szaprahamámtelki, has already flourished the city, which the emperor acknowledged with several privileges. The most precious proof and memory of this wealth is the Serb Orthodox Church dedicated to the Lady of Great Happiness, which is unique in its kind. In the church, the Gothic style of Western European architecture is masterfully combined with icon painting based on Byzantine traditions. The symbiosis of the two cultures cannot be observed elsewhere; the church deserves to be part of the European cultural heritage. This church is not only a cultural symbol, but also an excellent example of how the two cultures interact, how it becomes fertile and creates a unique masterpiece. For example, Serbs, who carry a difference in their language and culture, accepted the culture and customs of the new homeland, also found their own prosperity. This was true almost six centuries ago, and it is true now. Today, everything around us is changing, changing, transforming our daily lives in a few years, not a lifetime. The communities that shut down, become rejects, lose their young, fall behind in the race. Those who are able to adapt quickly to the changes that are taking place around them will survive and become recipients. What our ancestors began to do in 1440 and over the centuries the followers continued, it is now our responsibility to pass it on to our children and to pass it safely into the hands of our children. We're surrounded by the world, Europe. Many of us are questioning the safety of our home. We must trust that the safety of our country, the people who live here and those who come here with good intentions will remain secure at home and at home, and that good decisions will also be made in this House. [[22.30]] I feel that our survival is symbolized by the fact that, just like our ancestors in the past, we are responsible for everything. We must remain faithful to our ancestors and to their spirit. To do this, we need role models, great achievements. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-10-26-352	Mr István Nagy wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-10-26-353	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Your Honour, Mr Speaker. It feels really good to hear from you that the Serbs have found their happiness here over six centuries ago. This is an infinitely important sentence in this House, as the Serbs living in our country consider living with Hungarians to be about a thousand years old. Due to the Turkish intrusion into the Balkan Peninsula and later into the Danube Basin, the XV-XVII. In the 18th century, they settled in Hungary in bulk. Based on the privileges given by Emperor Habsburg, the XVIII-XIX. During the 20th century, they gained personal religious and related national autonomy. In addition to the autonomous operation of the Serbian Orthodox Church, they also had their own national assembly responsible for the affairs of autonomy. Hungary is still taking care of the Serb nationalities and is doing everything in its power to preserve and live their national identity. Following an increase of nearly 30 percent in the last decade, the community of Serbs in Hungary consists of 10,038 people, according to the 2011 census. At the 2014 national minority municipal elections, 45 local minority self-governments were elected for the elections in settlements where a significant Serbian community lived in the previous period, where important Serbian cultural, religious buildings, churches and tombs were located. Members of these communities have already invested a great deal of effort to preserve these values. In Budapest and Pest county, regional Serbian self-governments were elected, the most important institutions for cultural autonomy maintained by the Serbian National Government are the Hungarian Serbian Center for Culture and Documentation, the Serbian Centre for Pedagogical and Methodology and the Serbian Institute, as well as the public education institutions taken over in recent years in Battonya, Budapest, Lórév and Ráckeve. In 2015, the institutions of the Serbian national minority authorities in Hungary received central funding of nearly 272 million HUF. The Serbian Orthodox Church plays an important role in preserving the language and culture of the Serbs in Hungary. The church has 44 churches in Hungary. One of the most prestigious institutions of Hungarian Serbs is the unique collection and library of the Serbian Orthodox Episcopate in Buda in Szentendre, which is also the scientific centre of the church. In January 2012, the Saint Sava Centre for Education, Culture and Faith was handed over to the Serbian Orthodox Episcopate in Buda. The library of the Serbian National Municipality occupies a prominent place in the cultural life of the Serbs in Hungary. The library is available to readers with about 6,000 volumes. The professional theatre company of the Serbian community in Hungary is the Serbian Theatre in Hungary. Besides the rural seat of the theatre, it is very important to have a permanent play and rehearsal place in Budapest within the Serbian Cultural Center. Serbian folk music, folk songs and folk dance traditions have a number of ensembles. In the field of folk music, Vujicics is the most well-known band, but next to them there are about ten bands of young people from the new generation who cultivate the traditions of Serbian folk music in Hungary. The weekly paper of the Serbs in Hungary will be published from 2 May 1991, which will be available on the Internet from February 1998. Since 1992, Hungarian Radio has been broadcasting independent national minority broadcasts in Serbian. The radio with a two-hour daily programme can be heard on the midwave in virtually every settlement in Serbia. A 26-minute Serbian-language magazine programme is presented weekly in Magyar Television. Based on the recommendations of the Hungarian-Serbian Joint Committee on Minorities, Serbian cemeteries began to be organized using resources provided from the central budget through individual grants. The registration of Serbian cultural monuments in Hungary and the development of a programme aimed at protecting them also started from the framework of this source. It also shows that not only is there a glorious past, a present, but we hope that you will also have a very good future. God bless you with a lot of love.
u2015-10-26-354	To speak after the next agenda, Mr László Kiss has applied, but he is not here, so this is not going to happen. After that, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar with the title 'II.' which was left out of the State Land Privatization Debate Day. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-355	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. We could hear the debate day for about seven hours, but unfortunately, it was not enough to accept one sound argument from the government that underpins the reproach they are preparing for. In these seven hours, we have been able to hear many times how socialist and government representatives accuse each other of past crimes or at least criminal cases. We would have been delighted to hear this, by the way, if it hadn't been such a tragic result of the whole story, that after 25 years this people, this country, had been here. By the way, I would also encourage the Members who have already been quite modestly present to have been so well informed of the suspicious affairs of others, it would have been good to have been told not only within the walls of Parliament, but also, let us say, to walk into the prosecution with their evidence. I think that we could live in a completely different country if successive governments really took accountability seriously and not just here in Parliament. We're looking at the end result. We see that the Hungarian national wealth has been completely liquidated, the remaining 380,000 hectares of state land is being sold just these days, while the public debt has increased to many times. This would be two conflicting processes in normal countries, and, unfortunately, in our country, the two things went in parallel. Many times today, we have heard the argument that the land belongs to the man who cultivates it. Unfortunately, that is not what they will achieve with this condition. I cannot imagine that for 20 to 30 years, the areas currently leased will be bought or purchased by citizens who would definitely like to cultivate them. There's no way they can actually farm on this in their active lives. And I find it hard to imagine that someone already knows about their unborn or just born child that in 30 years' time he really wants to be a farmer. So it's very suspicious here, and there's a possibility of speculation. And the fact that Jobbik has been tried against the interests of family farmers - this has been said several times in Minister Fazekas's closing statement and it is very good that I can respond to this at least in the post-scheduled framework - we must reject it completely. What we do not consider excluded, and I also know through many of my farming acquaintances that there are some farmers who are looking forward to this land privatisation. Why wouldn't they wait? Of course, they are happy if there is a chance that they can get a few acres of land and expand their own farming to a size of land that, let's say, is more profitable than it is now. Nevertheless, we cannot say that this is in the interest of society as a whole. Why not imagine a situation - and according to Jobbik, there is one such situation today - where the 10-15 thousand farmers you consider to be able to obtain land? Now let's put aside the political color of the matter. I assume that these will be mostly government close; you say that they are not. Let's put that aside. I can imagine that 10 to 15,000 families could benefit and thrive. However, as a responsible Hungarian politician, I think we need to look at what this will cause in Hungarian society, what long-term consequences it will have, and what it will mean for the 10 million people. Because with this step, you are zeroing the potential of a normal, fair government in many ways. With this pull, no government that pays more attention to the countryside will be able to implement a demographic target programme, social targets, and will not be able to provide public land for local authorities, well-functioning job creation projects. This is the biggest problem, that you are now serving your friends, acting in their short-term interests, while the future governments, the future generations, are taking away the opportunity to give serious, meaningful input to what is happening in the Hungarian countryside. Of course, we can argue about the various laws, that's what we do, that's what we do, and let's do that, but let's face it, in the long run, thinking for decades in advance, there is only one possibility for governments of all time to protect the Hungarian land in the long term, sustainable, and that will be if we can remove our agricultural land from the capital chapter. There is increasing potential for this in today's rapidly changing Europe. Only allies need to be found, and the more states and governments need to be able to understand that without it, we cannot protect our national treasure in the long term. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[22.40]]
u2015-10-26-356	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-357	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Today, we have had a thorough debate about who should own the land, whether it should be sold, what the state should do with this land, whether it is the right thing to do, or whether it is the wrong thing. Each faction has given its opinion in its own opinion. In many cases, it was clear and clear what the positions of the various factions were and what it was coming from. After all, the attitude of our socialist fellow Members has shown that they do represent the old socialist major plant, the large companies, and they have raised their interests and grievances that this will end here. The Fidesz-KDNP made clear that large estate sizes should be removed, as many people should be able to make a living in these areas, and has taken the various measures it has decided to do so. The regulation of degression, now aligns the measurement of parcels with this, the various state aids and the allocation of EU funds, which should all serve the construction of the structure of the estate that 80% is a small and medium-sized enterprise and 20 percent can be a large plant. It is an infinitely important thing that we should not turn the two types of plants against each other, because that would be at the expense of the Hungarian economy, but that these two plants should be used to help each other, to generate each other as a catalyst, so that there is as much employment and livelihood as possible. I was amazed at the Jobbik's point of view. I must admit, I was surprised by this resolution, because I thought that they would represent the interests of small farms in the most serious way, they would hear the voices that the peasants were looking for us in order to help them get to the ground as much as possible. On the other hand, they receive the message that if they come to power, they will try to nationalise these areas. This is a very bad message, and it was a very big surprise for me to hear it from Jobbik, and that he did not support it, he did not support the fact that there is finally a strong government who dares to touch the cutting up of large plants and to give it to these farmers who are in the best place. "Let the land belong to the man who does it," says you, "and that it is not possible that the 36-year-old is entitled to rent. I must say to you that the future is guaranteed by this very area. So the person who is responsible for farming, and this is exactly what gives us that the livelihood of Hungary in the countryside can be guaranteed, because these pillars can be built on in the long term, that these pillars, for whom practically all the commitments, all the welfare services that must mean the maintenance, survival and backbone of such a community, are all these lands that must serve in the future. Speculation? - says you. But what speculation is there, how can you speculate when there's a 20-year disposal ban, there's state pre-purchase, there's a bid to get it to a natural person? It's all a concept with which we cut, throw it in, because it's coming from us automatically, but even if we think about it, neither you nor I, Congressman, could we create a situation where we could buy different fields here as speculators, so that we could fool the system. What will land auction cause in society? - raises that question. I must say to you: development, investment, quality renewal and security. This is a very important aspect, because there is a huge difference between rental and property socially, sociologically, propertyly, in every way. And when you bring social land programmes in line, I must say that I must reassure you, and everyone who is watching us, that the areas that are set aside for social purposes or are already serving social purposes, because there are very good examples of how these work. And at the end [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] on EU rules: land value, and fortunately, this process shows the value that no one wants to lose sight of it anymore. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Except for the Hungarian state.]] Instead, he wants to preserve and possess this body. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-358	In response to the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs came forward with the title of Mr Ander Balázs, the people of the people of Koppány, III., or Koppány. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-359	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, From Koppany's warrior people, history has made the peoples of the changing systems and governments in the villages of Somogyország. And in spite of all the promises of propaganda, the current structure of the estate seems to be more disproportionate than a hundred years ago, because there are new landlords who have taken the borders of the settlements and made servants or pannonian Palestinians of the natives found here, who, unlike them, could at any time show their parents, their grandparents' graves in their village cemetery. This looting process would be crowned by the transformation of state-owned land, which is the last opportunity for the countryside to break out, to nearby vassals of power. Of course, the official wording is not about this, but about the strengthening of family farms, as was the case in the paperwork of the series of scandals involving maladministration in land lease applications. As a reminder, the locals were able to obtain less than half of the rented areas from the land of their own settlement, most of them were taken away from the local host communities in Somogy County. From the 1695 hectares of state land here, 800 hectares were won by three large interests, including hardworking, crusty-handed small farmers such as the Somogyszobi Claessens, who acquired the largest rented estate in the county, a 96-hectare Nagyatád plougher or the former company of the ex-State Secretary Raskó, while the European agricultural model is based on the small and medium family economic and cooperative model and the average size in Poland is 6, 17 in Switzerland, 19 in Austria and 25 in the Netherlands. This European economic structure is, of course, preferred to be classified as uncompetitive skanzen by those who call the village medieval clumsy. But just like a hundred years ago, the great estate system is spreading social mortality in the countryside. Then american wrestling and an only child, now an auxiliary work in Germany, washing dishes in London, and rapidly aging, ethnically transforming, feeding villages. Before my representative, I worked as a history teacher at one of the county's largest vocational schools, a real assembly facility that hosts the children of Barcs and the most miserable families in the surrounding villages. What should the teacher say to these young people when they really see that their mother, their father, can't find a job on the spot? Because, you know, fellow members of the governing party, this is the county where one sixth of the 120,000 residential properties are empty, where the sad mementos of the Hungarian passing are growing, the village houses with broken roofs, where the wing lines have been eliminated or, if not, they are only carrying alibi transport. Where a weight limit is introduced on the damaged road, banting trucks from there instead of renovating it, they would confirm it. The population reserve of small settlements is zero, who can do it, flees. And the one who stays is mostly a vegetable in the wreckage society. Yet, how would unemployment in rural areas, both socially and economically, create serious social problems be reduced? It is a matter of national strategy to integrate the elements that have been adapted from society by themselves or by the mistakes of politics. It does not matter whether our ancient villages continue to reproduce the hostile tribal areas, the sociocultural reserves, which represent an unbearable social additional burden. [[22.50]] It is naive to dream that the primary labour market will solve the problems in a devastated and cumulatively disadvantaged region, such as South Somogy, has nothing to do with reality. By privatizing state land, there is virtually no means left. If he were to be dumped now, how would he get to the demographic earth program, what would make the trend of not having so much death in the rural regions of Somogy in the Hungarian population? Well, if they're gonna traips it now, how is it gonna get to the social land program? 80% of Gypsies live in the countryside, without complex programmes of agriculture and rural development, there will be no chance of avoiding the explosion. Lands should not be strayed, but rather increased state holdings. We could be a organic garden in Europe. Social soil and social cooperatives should provide opportunities for those who want to make an honest living in the countryside and should be forced to work in this way, so that those who have wanted to take or have loved from the community should also be forced to work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-10-26-360	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-10-26-361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, We are talking about the problems and situation of Somogyország several times, and, if I may put it this way, I always enjoy or listen to your lecture, you can see your history teacher's past, you can see the sensitivity you are dealing with on this subject. And I have to say, and I can tell you the good news, or I'm asking you to believe that practically the sale of land in this region can help. I'll tell you why. Because this is precisely the region where there were never large, connected estates, not the great estate system was the ruler of these villages, but rather the many small ones. The many little ones have made these people miserable and poor, of course, but they have given us an autonomy, the security of self-sufficiency. And that's precisely because there's a non-related grand estate system, so now there's a chance for all of you whose grandfather, father, once upon a time on these lands, stood on it and did it to get back on it and to do it again. There's a much better chance they'll be able to take part in this than they are in lease applications because we're talking about open bidding. You have to go there, everyone knows which one was his. You too have a responsibility to encourage them to stand there and dare to lift the reel, because they will receive the state loan behind it, and they will receive the sure future with which they can support their families. [[Sallai R. Benedek: But they don't have 10 percent to participate in the bidding!]] Young farmers can do it, because they can start with 12 million forints in the young farmers' contest. We are not talking about 10-50-100 hectares here, but we are talking about areas between 1 and 5 hectares of 6 hectares, which can support exactly one member of a family, so that if someone comes to work in the nearby city, the remaining member of the family, who is raising their child or at home as a grandparent, can help with the application. In these areas we must think quite differently, my dear fellow Member, than anywhere else. Here, what is profitable and what is loss-making is a completely different category. Here the earth is equal to life. That's because potatoes, wheat, corn can be grown on it. If you produce some corn, you can fatten the pig at home in the barn. And if you have that, you can cut it off, then there's food to eat. And this process can be operated in this way, and so you can bring together what is profitable and what is loss-making. It's a lot to appreciate. But it's only possible, and not to have sinking roofs, that's exactly what makes it possible to add ownership. 'Cause as long as it's not mine or anyone's, it's common, we'll own the factory and take it home, piece by piece, piece by screw. By avoiding this, if it is owned, a very different approach can be developed in these communities, the way in which we can do as much for the community as possible. I very much hope that these shared tasks will bring hope and future back to these villages. It is very bad to listen to reports about the sociological situation in some settlements at night. You know that, my dear fellow Member, it is not possible to solve this issue either with aid or with a social basis. It could be real work, work, property. And what advantage can such a settlement offer to those living there? That those houses can be bought cheaply; that those houses have a large garden. If I cultivate those gardens, I can contribute to my livelihood, my self-sufficiency in a large degree, i.e. with less money. It's infinitely important not to underestimate the baby, not to underestimate the little one we need for our self-sufficiency. We can ensure the livelihood or future of many people by making sure that they have enough for every day. And believe me, this land program, this sale, could help a lot of families. I ask you, by the responsibility of your representatives, by the weight of that, to encourage people to go to the bid, to enter this tender. Believe me, you can get the tender money you need to have a better, happier future for yourself. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-362	Mr István Ikotity, notary, came forward after the next agenda: the title on the planned increase in higher education wages. You have the floor.
u2015-10-26-363	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, After a long time, something good is finally happening in higher education. The previous years were about austerity, insecurity, the idea of extending tuition training, the introduction of clots, the dramatic fall in admissions and student numbers, the crisis situation in rural higher education, the intention of abolishing majors and institutions, chancellors, consistors. Similarly, it is a serious problem that a penny wage increase has not taken place in higher education since 2008. Teachers, assistant professors, professors, professors, university professors, the wages of the economic or administrative staff of the institutions have not increased for many years now. Their payment lost significant value, even though it wasn't too high in 2008. Wages could not be increased because higher education still lacks around 50 billion budget support per year if compared to the situation in 2008, because the restrictions have already started under the former socialist government. Not only did there not have to be any money to raise wages, but often even heat, there was a need for a coal break in the institutions more than once. The lack of higher education wages has led to the fact that today the university, college research and teaching career is even less attractive than before. Simply, the area of higher education in the landing section cannot keep the most talented young people any longer, nor can it entice the creative staff of leading companies. The process is exactly opposite, because as a teaching assistant, assistant professor, but even as a professor, you cannot make a living, you cannot make ends meet, you cannot support a family. Therefore, teachers are forced to take a second job or even leave the university cathedral for a living. In the past years, the untenable situation has often been brought to the attention of the government. For example, the higher education workers' union has developed a proposal, a concept, and has laid it on the table that wage increases should be introduced and a career model for higher education. Unfortunately, these ideas have fallen on deaf ears. We do not think that the State Secretary for Higher Education - thinking of Rózsa Hoffmann or István Klinghammer or the current State Secretary for Higher Education László Palkovics - was the obstacle to the increase in salaries, it is not that; it is simply the decision-makers of the government, the economic and financial portfolio that do not want to invest in this. They did not acknowledge where it would lead if we did not value higher education workers; how enormously important it was for young people, the intellectuals of the future, to be taught by the best teachers and researchers in their profession. This is only possible if they are given real respect both for wages and working conditions. [[23.00]] László Palkovics recently announced that the higher education wage increase will begin, first of all teachers and assistant professors, the least paid teachers' wages may increase slightly, but this is only the first step, the wage increase should cover the entire range of higher education staff, not only teachers but also those who work in economic or administrative positions that are essential to the university's operation. It is not necessary to make the mistake that they made in public education that only teachers received a salary increase, while many others, who work in kindergartens and schools in the same way, help teachers, without whom the whole pedagogical system does not work, have not received a penny increase in wages. In addition to wage increases, the higher education career model should also be introduced. However, there is another important aspect: according to the announcement, some of the cost of raising wages is intended to be passed on to universities and colleges, and the institutions themselves have to manage part of the source of the wage increase. According to the LMP, the higher education sector which has been bled out as a result of restrictions should no longer be sabotaged and the burden should not be passed on to the institutions. We need to increase wages as fully and as much as possible, but we need to find the source of the budget. If there's anything to it, it's worth a resource. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-26-364	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, It was nice to hear you start out with good news because there's going to be a raise in higher education. Yes, we have faced the fact that this is an unprovoked task that needs to be solved. It has to be solved because these universities are the future, and it doesn't matter what knowledge and knowledge the future generation of students will be equipped with. If these teachers, assistant professors, professors, professors leave the field and take away the knowledge that should be given to these young people, then we will be at a very great disadvantage. If there is such a contrast that these people will find their calculation in the competition sphere, in the economy, instead of the university cathedral, then we will again be at a great competitive disadvantage, because there will be such a contrast that, to say the least, the future generation of higher education in Hungary will be disadvantaged. So it is important that we take the first step to attract young educators and researchers to the cathedral, because they have the greatest seduction, and before them there is still the possibility that they want to work in economic life or in the field of science. This decision is intended to be supported first by the government's action to raise the salaries of teaching assistants and adjutants. At the same time, he raised the question of the need to manage part of the wage increase for the institutions themselves. I must say to you that no one has claimed that the budgetary support of the institutions will not cover the payment of salaries in the wage arrangement. Significant resources have been released with policy and structural changes implemented over the past period, with the introduction and effective operation of the Chancellor's system. In addition, the transfer between the chapter appropriations of the 2016 budget will provide sufficient coverage for possible wage planning, such as the appropriation of the higher education and structural fund, which is no longer necessary for debt settlement, since the institutions have implemented the restructuring and efficiency-enhancing measures undertaken so far, and reduced their debt stock, so they could close the year with a positive balance in 2014. The need for resources therefore includes next year's budget, which has already been accounted for in the course of the budgetary debate. The above resources are public budgetary resources, so that wage arrangements are covered by the State, and in addition, they will not be deducted from any other source. I think, my dear fellow Member, that we both agree on the need for this, and I wanted to reassure you by thanking you for your question that the state will ensure that this sphere will be increased in full in the budget. Thank you very much for asking.
u2015-10-26-366	Mr Sallai R. Benedek asked to speak after the next agenda, with the title of the anniversary of the diversion of a river. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-367	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It may be a significant sin for the Secretary of State to be assigned to answer, but I will tell you the next topic that you can respond to, because today 23 years ago, on 26 October 1992, Czechoslovakia unilaterally distracted the Danube at Dunakiliti, and redirected 83 percent of the water yield into an artificially dug waterbed, a 30-kilometer long service channel, to start operating a power plant at Bős on the basis of an earlier plan. This story dates back to the 1930s, when there were different European plans to use the rivers along a water staircase and to use them for various rural development, power generation and water management purposes. In April 1956, a KGST agreement became part of this agreement, which followed the course of the 20th century. The 20th century, and about a symbolic element of XX. ...and the collapse of the socialist era. Obviously, the idea was opposed from the beginning of the project: the first power plant had to be completed at Bős, and at Nagymaros, the other one on the Hungarian side. Since 1984, since the establishment of the Danube Circle, there have been fierce social protests in this regard, which have accompanied the five years after that, and have become one of the symbolic elements of the Hungarian regime change, as this may have been the first serious social movement when it was possible to hinder a government from what its predecessor had previously concluded. In 1992, the Danube was distracted, 83 percent of the Danube was shifted unilaterally to the Slovak side. Then, for five years, the International Court of Justice in The Hague had a lawsuit that we are still not exactly at the end of. The end of this litigation was that both parties were condemned, as Hungary, according to the court, broke its previous agreement, while Czechoslovakia and its later successor, Slovakia, on the other hand, led to a unilateral diversion of the Danube, causing serious harm to Hungarian society. It is important to know that the vast majority of the Danube is currently in this artificially dug-up bed, and the situation is that the economic benefits of the whole system and construction are thus fully borne by Slovakia, while all the ecological damage is borne by Hungary, as at the moment the yield is estimated to be 15-17 percent, up to 20 percent, which is transferred to the Hungarian side depending on the water level. In recent years, the press has received news about the new treason of Fidesz, that it wants to go into this situation, and many opposition politicians are concerned about this process. The fortunate thing is that the Minister of Justice, Dr. Gábor Baranyai, has contacted me in my office as Chairman of the Committee for Sustainable Development, has revealed the current negotiating processes, and I have to reassure him that there is nothing lost, that the Hungarian party is still holding on to national interests and is in any event demanding a yield of more than 40 per cent. Obviously, it is possible to argue about how much the ecological yield needed here should be, and according to several experts, it should reach 50 percent, but 40 percent would also bring about a very serious change, an increase of 80 centimeters throughout the Island. Obviously, research into technical solutions is ongoing at the moment. What I have been able to do during today's anniversary is to invite Mr Gábor Baranyai to the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I would like the Committee to deal with this thematically, because I think that in such a national case, such a historical case as the Calvary of the Bős-Nagymaros water escape, the government should not take a decision on its own, and there is a great need for a multi-party consultation and a national consensus in this to succeed in concluding this negotiation process with the agreement of all of us. [[23.10]] The information showed that the spring elections in Slovakia had an impact on the outcome of the negotiations, because the Slovak President would like a calm, conflict-free agreement either before that, or only after the elections, because this process will not be so urgent. I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice and the representatives of the government to involve opposition representatives in this process. We want to represent national interests and values, we want the ecological rehabilitation of the Szigetköz to take place as far as possible, and to reach an agreement that reflects the interests of the country as much as possible. I would ask the representatives of the government to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zoltan's ready to applaud.]]
u2015-10-26-368	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-369	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, Let me tell you about my crime: since there was a debate in Parliament on the auction of the land, and I was one of the State Secretarys who had to follow this debate through, it was practical for me to honor you and try to answer your questions, waiting for the end of the debate. I'm very sensitive to what you've suggested, because I'm an islander, and to us, what you're talking about is our living space. When they took the Danube away from us in '92, I don't envy those days. The shock, the terror on people's faces, when in those beds where water had flowed earlier, we saw a sprung soil, and it was just a terrible experience where the water cooled. And it was a terrible experience to experience what was going on in the National Assembly. It was a terrible experience to hear that the paper tiger would not be realized, it would collapse and the like, and we saw that it was being built, and we knew that it would happen, but they didn't believe it, and the voice of the inter-islanders didn't come up to this Parliament. I would like to assure you and to share with you the experience that during the Island, regardless of political interests, everyone is united on this issue. We want to make a deal so we can live quietly, because Damocles' sword is always above our heads. We're arguing about water. We agree that more water is needed in this region. But I also have to tell you - and this is all part of the truth - that ecological processes have resulted in the water wash of the Danube being so large that even if we got 100 percent water back, it wouldn't be enough, because it's about 2 meters 20 inches, 2 meters 40 centimeters below the main bed at the entrance of the lateral currents. A solution is absolutely necessary to steer the water level and raise the water level. Of course, it is a strategic goal, a strategic point, so that we can get as much back as possible. And I very much hope that, as the inter-islanders were able to be united in this, we were able to unite in this over all party political interests, we can rise up here in Parliament over our daily battles, and we can understand - and here we are really counting on the inter-islanders and the people to make sure that we can understand it to everyone - that this seems a very different problem from afar, but living there is a very important space issue for us to have enough water. For us, water means life. We've heard it before, we've heard that there's no water on the Hortobágy, yet there's life there, so let's move there. We would definitely like to reject that. We want to be able to live there in peace and quiet. We can finally conclude Europe's longest litigation process and reach an agreement that is appropriate for everyone. That is why I hope that Members here in Parliament and in Parliament, without party political affiliation, without hunting down the day's political victory, will be able to come up with a compromise and sound solution that will enable the representative of the Hungarian government to go to this hearing in such a way that he can conclude the agreement with which he can come home to say that yes, we have closed it and that we have made the decision that was the most sensible and ideal in this period. Allow me, too, to ask for your help and your responsibility as President of the Commission on this matter, so that they do not sit up to the voices which, in any event, would like to prove their existence twenty years ago on this issue, but come as many times as they can and make sure that what is going on in the Isle, because we are struggling in the Isle, and we are not trying to argue, but to reach an agreement, to make life possible, to have a living space in the 21st. In the middle of the Island, there is also a century for our children and grandchildren together. In this, I ask for your cooperation and very important assistance as President of the Commission. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Kepli applauds. Sallai R. Benedict intervenes. Defiance.]]
u2015-10-26-370	Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Zoltán Készép asked for a speech on the memory of Árpád Brusznyai. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, We are past the anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and the third Republic of Hungary. Celebrating our history is an accurate description of what country we live in. Let's see how we remembered the revolution. Hungary's two main public-law dignitaries did not consider it important to be at home and to celebrate with the Hungarian people. In his words, the patriotic Prime Minister has already symbolically abandoned Imre Nagy's legacy. Instead of driving ahead of the heroes in 1956 and creating the unity of the nation, he was more concerned with his own political interests and participation in the congress of his international party family. This pragmatic, but unworthy and cowardly act has come up with a confession, and it points to Viktor Orbán's thinking. The Prime Minister ran from himself when he decided that it was more important for him to be with the right-wing elite of European politics than to stop with the Hungarian people for a moment and face where we have come. Of course, it could easily have been an alibi, because if he had to speak honestly, he would have lied to himself earlier. Because what was an honest Viktor Orbán supposed to say? For example, every move he's called a freedom fight in the last five years has been bogus. Or that he was opposed to his speech at the re-mortem of Imre Nagy on 16 June 1989, and even opposed the legacy of Imre Nagy. We can be sure that if today we had a Great Imre and a united nation that rebels against the exploitation of our freedom, Viktor Orbán would be the first to call freedom fighters counter-revolutionarys. And you could also say that it is only in your political interest to share Hungary's economic and spiritual interests. Today, 1 percent of insiders live well at the expense of the other 99 percent, while people do not speak to each other unless they share the same political views. I myself am Veszprém's independent parliamentary representative. Unfortunately, Veszprém is also the field of party political battles, since Fidesz introduced it, the party and the opposition have been celebrating here separately. I, as I did earlier this year, attended both memorials. First, the city's opposition with several parties and quiet private people, and then the central ceremony organised by the city's leadership. I couldn't help but wonder: what would Árpád Brusznyai, a renowned classic philologist, a teacher admired by his students, the leader of the National Revolutionary Council of Veszprém County, who was executed by dictatorship? I'm sure he'd be happy if we Hungarians took care of his memory together. October 23, 1956, was about, among other things, how a nation could think for a few moments with one voice, how the people could become strong against power. Then he became a hero at the same time as the machine manager, the college student, the teacher, the Prime Minister. Not along ideology, but in the hope of a freer life, the left-wing working class, the bourgeois middle layer, the liberal and the conservative joined together. Those who were at that time involved in the events were connected by a special bond. Árpád Göncz, the most beloved President of Hungary, who was a former prisoner of 56, remembered this special union and Árpád Brusznyai as:, Árpád Brusznyai and I were friends. He was sentenced to death because of his human personality. He was a humanist, peaceful, humane man. This revolution was the revolution of humanity over inhumanity. This revolution is not lost, it is won by Árpád Brusznyai. Those who were executed were heroes dead. Their graves must be cherished, and their example must be followed. Árpád Brusznyai was a great man. He stood up, not smashed up in front of the gallows. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[23.20]] Allow me to recall a personal memory. A relative of mine fled to the United States after the fall of the revolution. He told me the next story. At an American World War II memorial, he had a conversation with a pilot sitting next to him, who told him about his most memorable deployment, the one where somewhere between Bakony and Lake Balaton, a city's ammunition factory was bombed. So you're the one who bombed our house? 'Uncle Laci asked, because because of the fog, most of the American bombers bombed Veszprém that day. 'As a soldier, I did my job,' said the veteran, and then the two old men fell on each other's necks, wept together and scolded the war together. Uncle Laci taught us that the hardest thing to forgive someone is to forgive someone, but once that's done, we find out how much better peace, common goals are than continuing trenching and enemy search. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with forgiveness we can rise above our perceived and true grievances, so that we can be worthy of the addition of 56. We can never give up hope that we can re-establish national unity, and we in Parliament have a lot of responsibility in this. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-372	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-10-26-373	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I'm not a very scratchy way of putting it, but I have to. What you said is unworthy. The beginning of his speech was completely unworthy of the spirit of 1956. For you to honor our hero Árpád Brusznyai, it's perfectly all right, and it's about time. But the fact that you speak the name of the Prime Minister of Hungary unfairly and unfairly, and the fact that you are doing your job in the meantime, this, I am sorry, Congressman, is completely unworthy. I must strongly reject this because it is not worthy of a Member of Parliament, especially in commemorating the spirit of 1956. Today is October 26th. This is important to me because today is a day of mourning in my city. On that day there was a series of fires in Mosonmagyaróvár. More than a hundred people - I have to put it this way, more than a hundred, because we do not know exactly how many people - died. And, you know, when the change of regime came, that man was one of the bravest, he stood up and demanded that the Russians go home, whom you were undeservingly speaking. That wasn't worthy. Absolutely not tonight. You say Veszprém celebrates separately. And I am proud to say that Mosonmagyaróvár celebrates together. Yet the representative of your party sits before you, and it never occurred to you - perhaps in thought yes, but never realized - to celebrate separately. Because our dead are important to all of us. For our dead, who created freedom for us, it cost them their lives, but we are free today. That's where we get our freedom from. And that we are arguing with you here today, and I hope that many times we speak in a more noble tone, thanks to the struggle of those people, including Árpád Brusznyai. Allow me to say that you should also be worthy of the memory of Árpád Brusznyai, a worthy successor to Árpád Brusznyai, and respect the task, the work that the Prime Minister of Hungary is doing. Believe me, he didn't go there willingly, not with joy and song, but he's fighting hard for the interests of the country, fighting for the choices we have, the opportunities that he can lead the country to a better age. And it creates that Árpád Brusznyai, the dead in Mosonmagyaróvár, will be worthy of their freedom in the 21st century. Hungary of the century. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-26-374	Mr Lajos Kepli came forward last after the agenda with the title Szigetköz, a quarter of a century without water. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-26-375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Last but not least, in closing today, I would also like to say my speech after the agenda on a subject that has just been mentioned. I am very pleased that Mr Secretary of State represents the Government at this late hour, because I think he may be the only member of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, or at least very few of those with whom we almost fully agree on this issue, on the situation of the Szigetköz and on the issue of the Bős-Nagymaros water escape. We have had the opportunity to talk about this before, both outside Parliament and Parliament. The diversion of the Danube as almost one of the first acts of the state of Slovakia, which was then born on 26 October 1992, caused great indignation in international circles, but it led to dramatic consequences during the Isle. As the Secretary of State said, no one else could have felt the dramaticness of the situation more than the inter-islanders. The problem was, then, that the then government was told what to do in this case, in this extremely complicated situation, by the tellers from Budapest and abroad. They chewed the ears of the Antall government until he withdrew from the contract from which retreating at that moment was at least as serious a crime as going into it under the terms agreed upon at the time when the interstate agreement between Czechoslovakia and Hungary was concluded. The implementation of the C-variant called the paper tiger has resulted in little water left in the inter-island Danube, and then this critical situation persisted for several years, but still remains to this day, since the situation has not improved, but has deteriorated since then. It should also be pointed out that what my fellow Member of the LMP did not say is that Slovakia has a major flaw in this, which has distracted the Danube, and which has since done so specifically in the Hague Court contrary to international law and to the Treaty in force. However, there is a flaw in it in those circles that call themselves the Danube defender, environmentalist and many others, who led the government to believe that this paper tiger, this C-variant, will not be implemented by Slovakia, so you can safely withdraw from the contract without any negotiation, with immediate effect, to terminate the agreement between the two countries. On the other hand, when the disaster occurred, they were also the ones who prevented the construction of the bottom threshold for three years, which, as a firefighter and not permanently, provided at least a tiny solution to the problem of water yield by extending the Danube water back to some part of the island branch. Since then, in the last 23 years, every time this topic was found in the Hungarian Parliament - it was quite rare, by the way, but when it came out - people who had always been public on this subject for 23 years immediately appeared, and did not allow any meaningful dialogue. This is why, 18 years after the Hague judgment, no agreement was reached with Slovakia. The reason for this is, of course, that Slovakia does not have much interest in any agreement, as they announced a few years ago that they thank them very much, that the power plant in Bős paid off as an investment, and from then on it produces electricity for virtually free, the Danube flows towards them, all the ecological damage is borne by the Szigetköz, and they have been positive both in terms of tourism and energy production and in all other respects. So the clock is ticking at our house, and the agreement is actually pushing us, and they're not bound by any pressure. Hungary would also need to conclude a rational agreement that will help Hungary to manage water ecologically and in all other respects. I'm not sure water sharing alone is a sufficient solution. If we look at how the climate changes globally at national level, how the precipitation distribution changes and what is expected in the future, then water sharing alone is certainly not the solution. The current Hungarian government needs to think about comprehensive, complex water management, and Jobbik is a partner of the current government, and will always be a partner to create a comprehensive, complex solution. Thank you very much. [[23.30]]
u2015-10-26-376	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-10-26-377	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Hungary sued Slovakia between 1993 and 97 before the International Court of Justice of the Hague. However, the judgment only partially resolved the dispute and, to a large extent, obliged the parties to agree on a negotiated basis. The current situation is clearly unfavourable for Hungary, since Slovakia uses water in the vast majority of the island region. It is therefore the government's duty to examine any solution that can improve the present unblessed conditions. What is the Hungarian national interest in this situation? Our primary objective is to improve the nature and flood protection situation of the Szigetköz. On the one hand, we need more water, which, you said, is not enough in itself. Together with Slovakia, we must restore the link between the branches and the main bed. Since we are talking about a significantly modified natural environment, this will require some kind of technical intervention. What are we discussing right now? In 2007, the parties launched a joint expert study aimed at identifying how they could restore the relationship between the main banks and the tributaries of the Danube. The expert studies completed this summer clearly suggest that the bottom threshold, which currently provides water supply for Szigetköz, should be supplemented with four additional thresholds. The bottom threshold is not a barrier, but a transversal stone excavation that raises the water level, but the water falls through it and the fish pass through it. The government will take full account of the will of the people of Szigetköz. In 2012, inter-islanders supported the restoration of the Danube with bottom thresholds in a popular initiative. Unfortunately, the international court never said that Hungary would be entitled to 50 percent of water in the inter-island region. The court only said that our country is entitled to a fair and reasonable water sharing. Of course, this must be more than the current 20 percent, but there is no standard of international law to determine how much. Of course, the government is striving to maximise the amount of water in the region. Slovakia has not yet offered water sharing, so these will be the hardest negotiations we have. In 1992 Hungary gave up its share of the power plant in Bős, including the electricity produced. Hungary is not entitled to free electricity under the judgment of the international court. In order for our country to benefit from electricity generation, we would have to buy half of the power plant in Bős. This is not in the interests of taxpayers or Hungarian energy policy. Hungary does not wish to build a hydroelectric power plant either in the Sziget or in other parts of the Danube. The rumors in the press are completely unfounded. The fact that a small turbine is placed in the empty turbine house of the Dunakiliti dam, which was completed in 1989 and has continued to operate since then, has nothing to do with the negotiations in Bős-Nagymaros. What is the outcome acceptable to us? Hungary has set three main objectives in the Hague trial: do not build up the Great Maros dam, get more water into the distracted Danube branch and rehabilitate the natural environment. If we can agree with Slovakia on fair water sharing and the restoration of the landscape, we can say that we have achieved results corresponding to decades of national consensus. Because I have to tell you from here that Szigetköz wants to live, has lived in the past, had a very beautiful history, has an excellent present. But we very much hope that water and life will allow our children and grandchildren to live here, during the Isle, in the future. Thank you very much for asking.
u2015-10-26-378	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 2 November 2015. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 11:34 p.m.]]
