u2015-05-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Please take your seats. [[A moment's pause.]] Dear Parliament, With all due respect, please take your seats. Thank you very much. The 27th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-05-11-1	Thank you. Mr. President. Dear House, The Hungarian economy is doing outstandingly well. This is not only said by me, but by the reports and reports of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, the OECD, the major international institutions and market analysts in recent weeks. The Hungarian economy has produced surprises, much better results than anyone expected, so it is no coincidence that the largest institutions - the European Union mentioned above, the European Commission - had to change up the indicators on possible economic growth, as well as in the reports of the IMF. I must add that this is included in several reports. For example, the International Monetary Fund confirms these in its spring assembly material as well as in its regional study on the evaluation of Central and Eastern and South-Eastern Europe, which has now been issued. In this study, for example, they claim that the growth of the economy will be higher than their expectations; the current account surplus, previously predicted at only 2 per cent, will be close to 5 per cent - 4.8 per cent; the lack of public finances will be lower than their previous expectations; and the level of household consumption will increase by 2.6 per cent, i.e. this year to the same extent as the government indicated in autumn 2014. The European Commission has also issued a similar opinion. The Commission has also corrected the growth prospects of the Hungarian economy in its spring forecast and concluded that this economic growth is expected to be around 2.8 percent; therefore, it has improved its expectations by 0.4 percent. It also concluded that growth was much healthier, much more extensive. In this report it is also about the fact that consumption of households can be the main driver of growth this year. Therefore, after the long critical years, it seems that the Hungarian population is increasingly investing in consumption from its savings, from its income growth. This will also help the economy to grow further by increasing domestic demand. The European Commission also notes that the unemployment rate could fall to around 7 per cent this year and then return to the 6 per cent range in 2016. I would like to draw attention here once again to the fact that these forecasts and expectations are in line with the expectations of the Hungarian government. So the situation is that while in recent years the European Commission, for example in 2005, has had to warn the government not to manipulate budget figures, today the report of the European Commission and the report of the International Monetary Fund are based on the figures of the Hungarian Government, and if it makes its own calculations, these figures are the same as the expectations of the Hungarian Government. I have to recall this to you because we have heard opposition opinions in this House on numerous occasions over the last five years, which have always repeated the same thing: the Hungarian economy cannot grow, economic policy is going in the wrong direction. To quote some of these: on 29 November 2014, the speaker of the MSZP faction: employment has not improved. - No, more than 420 thousand people are working in the country today. Hungary's international perception is getting worse. - I was just quoting that this spring only reports were published that could change their expectations upwards. The speaker also says that anti-market economic policy is under way. Compared to this, investments increased by nearly 20 percent in 2014. I don't think if this economic policy were against the market, this would have happened. They also say that the single-key tax system limits Hungary's economic growth. The opposite is happening. The second highest rate of growth was the Hungarian economy. The same position was expressed on Jobbik's part, which says that we do not know what austerity package will happen, says Dániel Z. Carpathian in June 2014. DK MEP László Varju states that anti-growth economic policy is taking place in the country, he says on 24 September 2014. PM, the Dialogue for Hungary, says the economy is crumbling. Once again, we've grown to the second highest degree. I would just like to stress to the Members of this House that the Hungarian economy is on track, and more and more international analysts are pointing back the sustainability of this career. The Hungarian Government is now preparing a budget for 2016, with further growth, a deficit below 3 percent and consumption [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is counting on its growth, so the population can increasingly feel the benefits of this economic growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-2	Thank you very much, Minister. The House Rules provide a five-minute timeframe for the Minister speaking on behalf of the Government and two minutes for the political groups separately. I ask who the political groups want to comment on in two minutes. [[For signal:]] First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the group, LMP.
u2015-05-11-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, If there is stability and prosperity, there is no reason to prevent social workers from raising their wages and getting away with what social workers are going to do tomorrow. Dear Minister, What you're talking about here is simply a hoax. The Hungarian economy has been able to grow for two reasons in the last year: on the one hand, multinational companies continue to draw the Hungarian national economy in the same way as under false left-wing governments, and on the other hand, EU development resources have been allocated. There was a 13-15 percent demand surplus. Up to half of this is what showed as an increase in GDP, so a multiplier effect cannot be talked about. But if the Minister is in such a boastful mood, I think that it might also be possible to talk about the fact that today a third of those working in the public sector in Hungary are living in poverty. Perhaps it could also be said that the Hungarian society has been broken up to an unprecedented extent. We could talk about a total of 40,000 jobs in the market - write and say - over the past few years. The reason for this is that you have produced growth without, in fact, increasing productive capital. In Hungary, the central budget spends 1.2 percent on research and development, so the jobs you use here do not add any added value to the Hungarian national economy. Hungary should not compete with the price of labour, but with the level of skills of the workforce. It also hinders substantial job creation, the growth of family farms, SMEs and family businesses in Hungary, the fact that we may be record players in the European Union, the number of taxes there are, the administrative burden on small entrepreneurs. Mr. Secretary. Hungary will rise if it does not become a country of global production based on assembly work [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] economic policy can really help the local economy, the domestic SME sector. Thank you very much. [[13.10]]
u2015-05-11-4	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker on behalf of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-05-11-5	Mr President, Dear House, In recent times, we have heard a similar ode of joy as when the third out of the three credit rating agencies raised Hungary to the same medium or weaker level as the previous one. It can be seen that if the story about the scootering economy were true, the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage would not be 20,000 forints, we would not be able to talk about the exploitation of workers, but we also need to see that the fundamental problem is the status of Hungary's assembly plant. If we withdraw from the alleged growth system the performance of the multi-company companies - who no one else wants to completely get rid of, only involve them in public burdens - or if the calculation of GDP-GNI scissors was carried out in a fair manner, it would be apparent that the Hungarian national economy is independent and its own performance is not sufficient at the moment to stand on its own feet. But when it is called to account why the opposition is levitating the existence of austerity packages - there is no levitation, Minister. You have issued a record volume of more than 40 types of taxes on the Hungarian economy or raised, creating amazing European records. I mean not only 27 percent VAT, which is the poor man's worst tax, but also exotic tax types that no one has ever heard of. In such a tight environment, where a 27 percent VAT hits everyone and everything from raising children to basic food, it is simply impossible. We must say that until they can support the reduction of VAT on basic foods and the VAT on child rearing items to at least 5%, they can bring us any perceived or real GDP data; now Mr Matolcsy is preparing to amend the rules that affect our debt statistics. They're going to bring out a new type of statistics that, while the government debt is growing by billions, it's not going to grow in your world. What we want to see is real internal consumption, so that people can really change the TV and the fridge. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For example, the issue of foreign exchange lenders should be dealt with fairly and not machine with statistics, but bring about real economic performance. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-6	Thank you very much. The next two-minute comment on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party is Mr János Harghitai.
u2015-05-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, I have been one of those MEPs for many years who thought that giving such a picture of the economy and, above all, giving an outlook on the direction in which and how the economy could move, in this economic environment in which we are living today, does not make any sense, because during the Socialist Government, I experienced that when the government made a statement, on the one hand, when it claimed it did not convey reality, and that every analytical institution or the European Commission always claimed the opposite. Since we have been in government, knowing what a low point we had to raise the Hungarian economy, I do not think that we have done the miracle or we are near the miracle, so these criticisms that opposition representatives are expressing may be true. However, I can appreciate what you have said, Minister, because I also know the low point where we had to start. You are quite right to say that what the Hungarian Government says about the growth prospects of the Hungarian economy, about the expected size of the deficit, about increasing internal consumption, about falling unemployment, coincides with those who are not necessarily our friends, but simply analytical institutions. In fact, the European Commission, which is obviously looking at the achievement of each budget and economy, is saying the same thing. Therefore, I am one of those today who say that with a consistent economic policy, it does make sense to give such signals not only to the European Union but also to the economic players, because this is the key to our credibility. I think that, in the coming period of government, what we have ahead of us, we should be able to create that from this ever-increasing economic stability or budgetary stability that we have been able to create for ourselves, we should be able to make more and more sense of the social actors, the citizens on whose behalf we are here and acting. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-8	Thank you, Congressman Harghitai. Member Sándor Burány of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has applied. You have the floor, two minutes.
u2015-05-11-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, Some things have not been discussed, Minister. Allow me to address them. The Minister did not mention that Hungary is still in the bovli category in the eyes of large international credit rating agencies. He's in the bivouquet category. We can only prevent countries from the region such as Ukraine and Croatia, and to show that there is still room for improvement, Minister, based on rating ratings, Romania, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are also ahead of us. So much for the credibility of the economy, maybe. The other thing that has not been mentioned, Minister, is that one of the lowest entrepreneurship in Hungary, and even worse for small and medium-sized enterprises, is that most small and medium-sized enterprises have ceased in the past. The Minister also did not mention that the government's optimism was boundless when he introduced the so-called debt formula a few years ago, it turned out that they were not so successful in reducing debt, since the President of the Fiscal Council just the other day drew attention to the fact that the government's convergence programme and budget bills would not be able to comply with the rules under the original laws, simply because the debt could not be reduced in substance, by the way, that you have squashed a pension of HUF 3000 billion. And finally, Minister, you didn't talk about the spread of income poverty, labour poverty in the country, thanks to your personal income tax policy, as opposed to the practice of socialist governments, where the minimum wage didn't have personal income tax, you raised the previous zero rate to 16 per cent, thus creating a condition in many working families that they couldn't come out of the pay by the end of the month. There's no reason to be so proud, Minister. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-11-10	Thank you, Congressman Burány. I give the floor to Team Leader Antal Rogán, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2015-05-11-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We must not forget when we look back on the results and challenges of the economic policy of the last five years - as my fellow Member from KDNP has said before me - what we have inherited. Because I think that the words of my fellow MSZP Members in this Chamber should be broadly assessed by leaving behind a country with an incredibly high budget deficit, increasing the level of government debt-to-GDP ratio from 58 per cent to 85 per cent, and, in practice, pushing Hungary to the brink of bankruptcy. The task five years ago was to consolidate the state's finances for the first time. This has happened, honourable Members. For years, the government deficit has been below 3 per cent and the government debt has been declining steadily, from 85 per cent to 76 per cent of GDP. The next task was to stabilise, so that economic stabilisation should take place and, after economic stabilisation, a turn of growth should start. We can now see the signs of this in the last two to 2.5 years, my fellow Members, and it can be said that this growth turn is due to EU funds, but I would just like to say to Mr András Schiffer that there are also EU funds in a number of other countries, but the growth is significantly lower than in Hungary. It follows that something else happened to us at the time, just as the decline in unemployment is one of the greatest. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, There's an important difference. When we talk about how to use the results of the growth revolution, all you can think about is how to take money from people and otherwise give it to others. I would like to say that if the employees of the state revive this, it is good for a few hundred thousand people in Hungary, but if we reduce taxes, it is good for more than four million people working. We want to follow this path and support the Minister and the budgetary concept he has prepared. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-12	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. We will move on to the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title: "Previously the Health Exhibition." You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.20]]
u2015-05-11-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Anyone who wants to know what the government is doing with health is in a very difficult situation. He is in a very difficult situation, because instead of having coherent ideas, he is forced to face dropped sentences, statements made at a press conference and public ideas from which to put the image of the government concept as a mosaic - but this mosaic cannot really be put out, because the pieces do not match. Such small mosaics are a number of announcements by the Secretary of State of the Wallet about unwanted, then legitimized gratuity money, the two-week oncology study, and then the fact that this has to be paid if the patient is not diagnosed with illness, the matters of general doctors, the 6 billion that they want to reduce waiting lists, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in parentheses that, as far as I know, the Secretary of State is announcing something at a press conference, rather than discussing it with us here. Where else could this be discussed, better than in the Hungarian Parliament? There is a document from which you might be able to find out, it bears the name. Healthy Hungary 2014-2020, three-quarters of it is an analysis of the situation, and one-quarter of it deals with the tasks. And what's important is what's not in it, because it doesn't or doesn't talk about important matters that are going to put people on the street in health care. The former Secretary of State of the Treasury referred to these problems as the Chilean miners trapped in the mining disaster, that they had to be brought to the surface and rescued individually. It didn't work. Unfortunately, the miners stayed down. And what are these problems? Evacuation. The emigration of the workers and doctors, which threatens the care of patients, does not stop or improve against any other celebrity. This emigration means that it is no longer possible to fill the vacant posts in Hungary that are in health care, and indeed young doctors and candidates for specialists do not imagine their future in Hungary. It's gratitude money. According to recent reports, this will be legal, but at the same time, everyone should understand that the vulnerable patient does not pay for his gratitude on the money, but buys a better care or hope for it in many cases. Therefore, we should talk about abolition, not legislatation. Waiting lists. The Secretary of State of the Treasury made a ominous statement when he said it could be reduced. Well, then it's just a matter of money, which you didn't intend. If money is spent on it and these lists are shortened, then the solution is in this. That's what you should be looking for. And it is untenable to wait months or six months for some diagnostic procedures, even the simplest possible ones. And it's not cataract surgery or spinal stabilization surgery, it's the simplest diagnosis of disease. Rent. Well, when you say one of your very important governmental factors is that the 1% reduction will solve wage development, or the Secretary of State says that the situation of otherwise disastrous nurses can be substantially improved from HUF 9900, this is a serious mistake. A serious mistake that cannot account for the fact that those who are going out on the street today and tomorrow are unable to make a living on their money. And finally, the case of hospital debts, in which you presented the mathematical stunt on how to subtract 90 billion debts from 60 billion in a way that could even be used for wage development. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I can't do this. This math isn't something you can't accept in elementary school, maybe even the kindergarteners count better. Ladies and gentlemen, Solidarity in health has been established, and they cannot now be bought out individually. A resident and a worker and a doctor will demonstrate together in a national case. Because if there are three or four national cases, it's health care. Therefore, it would be worth reaching a longer-term agreement than trying to put out a fire. And for that, we need money. If what Minister Varga said is true, please give more money to this profession. You don't have to spend money on stadiums, you have to spend money on health care to change something in this sphere. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2015-05-11-14	Thank you, Congressman Tukacs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-11-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I could also say that the honourable Member is a very brave Member, because, after the health performance of the socialist government, talking about health here in Parliament, bringing up these questions, these problems, or it is very brave for you to do so after your achievements, or a very short memory that you no longer remember what socialist government meant, and what changed the direction of health support, the health system over the last five years. Because we remember when you didn't want to remedy the various health-related missing expenses by doing what we did, because we raised last year's spending on the health sector by 6 percent this year. No, you wanted to introduce a visitation fee and a hospital allowance, so you were trying to increase healthcare revenues. It's very brave of you to talk about health care when you didn't even speak when the nurses took their 13th month's wages from the nurses, and this increased the gap between the average income in the national economy and the salary of the healthcare workers. You forgot to speak here in Parliament or to hold a press conference when you wanted to transfer the amount of the medical register to private insurance companies, or when you wanted to privatise other hospitals as a result of HospInvest. Time has proven that this was a mistake, that it was almost bankrupt, that the hospital that was privatized came close to bankruptcy. At that time, there were no voices in the Socialist Party that would have kept the government from making this wrong decision. We also remember that hospital safes were used to improve the condition of hospital patients, not to increase the amount of care there. And we also remember those hospital closures, one of whose victims was OPNI, and we also remember that health demonstrations were almost everyday at the time. Ágnes Horváth, then Minister of Health, asked that at least on the day of his wedding not be shown, that it should be a kind of wedding gift for him, that at least then there would be no health protests. Compared to this, we have launched an unprecedented development in the past, as regards the infrastructure of hospitals, as you know very well, honourable Member, that overall HUF 500 billion of hospital investment is still ongoing in Hungary or has been completed in the past. In the first three years of this development period, you have not done much. The period of wage increases has also started in recent years. We can say that 2012-2013 was the time when the wages of healthcare workers increased noticeably. Overall, we paid 95,000 people a higher salary of HUF 76 billion, which means an average wage increase of 24 percent. This 24 percent is felt, but obviously we know that there are still few, and obviously we know that they deserve even more, so there are ongoing consultations between the government and the various health organizations. You know very well that Gábor Zombor also participated in the General Assembly of the Hungarian Health Association of Professional Workers, and took over the Chamber's proposals. Last week, there was a consultation in the Ministry, and not only with this one organisation, but also with a number of organisations, the Secretary of State invited and discussed the health pay situation there. For those who have already made a marked improvement in their wage or income situation last year, they are the general practitioners, since they received an extra HUF 10 billion this year as well as the previous year. Over a third of the funding of GP practices has increased in recent years. This has been made possible by many things, not only better performance of the economy - because we were able to cover these extra expenses not from credit but also from better performance in the economy - but also by the fact that the chips tax has created a completely new source of income for the health system, a source of income that the overwhelming majority of people consider to be just. The waiting lists have been mentioned, honourable Member. It would have been possible for the socialist government to reduce or eliminate the number of people waiting, but it did not do so. If I look at the last year and a half: at the beginning of last year, this government spent an extra HUF 1.5 billion, HUF 1 billion in the summer, and an additional HUF 6 billion in December and January to reduce waiting lists. Even the first HUF 1.5 billion cost reduced the number of patients waiting on the waiting list by 3,000, and we hope that this will continue to decrease. The departure of God has now slowed down not only the doctors but also the nurses, and fewer people are asking for permission to work abroad. And the residency scholarship was also introduced by this government to keep young doctors at home. And you know that the government's recent decisions will allow another 43,000 nurses and 17,000 doctors to raise their wages from January 1st next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2015-05-11-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck also applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title "Politicals - The Government has once again deceived the foreign exchange lenders." You have the floor, Congresswoman, in five minutes.
u2015-05-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As an opposition representative, I should probably be happy with what the majority of governments have been doing under the heading of legislation lately. They're making unthinkable, hasty billings. This was the Internet tax, the closing of shops on Sunday, the brokerage law, but also the Foreign Exchange Forinting Act. I'm telling you, I should be happy, because that way people can see clearly who and how they're being deceived. But as a responsible politician, I can't take pleasure in it, because in your poorly prepared and unforeseen laws, people are the ones who take the blame, especially those who live in vulnerable, difficult circumstances. LMP did not vote in favour of the Foreign Exchange Forging Act. We did not vote for it, because by converting the foreign exchange market rate, it placed an unbearable burden on families, moreover, it did not promise any protection for those who cannot repay their loans to the forint due to their financial situation. You promised everything, and perhaps for a moment people believed that their burdens would become bearable. But that only took a moment. Now that the settlement letters related to foreign exchange loans have arrived, people have been bitterly confronted with the exact meaning of their conversion by HUF. There are many, many examples, because the numbers are more talkative than anything else. I will mention one thing: someone has taken 6 million forints, since then he has paid 5 million, and now he owes more than 8 million forints. And the numbers everywhere are the same. They have to pay back 2.5-3 times what they recorded. These are people who couldn't pay back at a rate of HUF 180, i.e. mostly people with low income incomes. You're just talking about helping the poor, endorsing was for the wealthy, for those who didn't have any reserves, and they were, who could repay the loan at a rate of 30 percent lower, including undersecretaries of state. You guys really fooled people. Last year, obviously not by accident, just before the municipal elections, Fidesz's group leader said:. Foreign exchange loans can be converted into forints at a rate lower than the market rate, as the burden of exchange rate changes must be shared by banks and customers. However, this position lasted only until the day of the municipal election and the conversion of the promise at the market rate, i.e. the total loss of the exchange rate against previous promises, was charged to the debtors. In addition to the serious error of the forinting at the market rate, you have not dealt with, or even listened to, many other serious problems, even though LMP has drawn attention to them and we have even tabled legislative proposals. One is the right to walk away. It is incomprehensible that a mortgage, whether real estate or other, can survive the debt even if the debtor loses the mortgage, such as his apartment. Even in this case, you will have to pay the instalments for decades. This is nothing more than legitimizing debt slavery. The other is the protection of their homes. In general, the bank sold, factored in loans to companies that were not selected in the assets, often debted much more, adding said costs than that which caused the apartment to be lost. We would have forbidden factoring. I will not go further, although we have still had proposals for a good solution, but you have not even been willing to consider them. However, LMP's proposals could have significantly reduced the repayments years ago. Dear Parliament, It is now clear that there is only one winner in the forinting of foreign currency loans, and not the people. If we asked people who won, I'm sure almost everyone would answer, the Hungarian National Bank. According to the MNB's own declaration, the HUF 136 billion forints at the market rate has been paid to it; the MNB, which has been operating illegally for more than a year without a supervisory board, has been spending money at its convenience. Most recently, the Századvég Foundation received 1.8 billion forints. It would be worth changing the concept and actually solving the problem of foreign exchange lenders. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-11-18	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, it is worth examining the question of foreign exchange creditors a little more calmly, which has also been one of the main topics of Parliament's work over the past five years. It is no wonder that, at the turn of the government in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government had to face the fact that it was an indebted country, indebted businesses and indebted people. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: It's 2015!]] There has been a steady increase in budget deficits, an increase in public debt, no economic growth in the country, and the number of unemployed has only increased and increased and employment has been lower. All this socio-economic problem, which the population has seen, of course, because the result of the election was, at the time, completed, culminated in the problem of foreign exchange lenders. The problem and difficulty of foreign exchange lenders was the most serious and tragic problem in Hungary as well. After all, in 2010, nearly two million people were in debt in foreign currency, nearly 20 percent of the population. In comparison, after us, Poland follows, and here it was 3 percent in total. The previous government did nothing for the benefit of the population, but drove people into foreign exchange loans to make people feel good about how well we live. In fact, loans were taken out by 2010, and when the Fidesz government came, it was then that the loans had to be repaid, and all of this, with a global economic crisis in 2008, which, unfortunately, did not escape Hungary. This is the problem the government had to face. The government has said that it will help people, help solve the problem, and will manage foreign currency loans, and this will not be a problem for the country. But what solution did the government have to find? First of all, a fair solution. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Failed.]] A fair solution meant, in the first place, that those who took credit in HUF and who, by the way, were more than those who took credit in foreign currency should not be worse. Another condition of justice was that one taxpayer's money could not be given to another because he chose to be indebted to another in foreign currency. So the first requirement against the government's decisions was to be fair, and the second requirement was to apply a solution that would strike a financial balance in the country. It creates balance, because it cannot finance private people's problems from the sources of the budget, because then the budget could have closed with a greater deficit, and we could not have met the EU's expectation that the budget deficit would have been below 3 per cent of GDP. The third solution was to be legally sound. Legally, since it affects millions of people, it is not a solution to bring something and then hundreds of thousands of lawsuits, hundreds of thousands of people suing the state or the bank. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Dr. András Schiffer have repeatedly intervened.]] [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] Therefore, a long process began, which ended with the decision of the Constitutional Court and even the decision of the European Court of Justice, and at the end of June 2014 the Curia stated what the banks had actually done, how they had deceived people. So there was already a law unit decision. Then came the decision of the government and Parliament, and the Parliament passed three laws. [[13.40]] The three laws: first in June 2014 he declared the exchange rate gap null and void, and then in September 2014 the Accounting Act, according to which the resulting damage should be repaid to the people, and in November 2014 the Fair Bank Act, which was also about forinting. This is how the solution, which we are now at the end of, comes together, because hopefully within a few months we can say that this problem has been solved jointly by the government and Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President also applied for a speech before the agenda:. After 100,000 signatures, the government is willing to talk about the retirement age? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-05-11-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the spring session I spoke three times before the agenda on whether the government is willing to consider our proposal to allow men to retire after 40 years of employment. I spoke three times, we waited three times for an answer, and three times we didn't get an answer. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári would have been entrusted with giving an answer, but he always talked about completely different topics or perhaps completely twisted things in his answers. I'm very confident that if you get the opportunity to respond again, you'll take your job a little more seriously. In the meantime, of course, the weeks passed during the three speeches, and we launched our signing-collection action, thanks to which we can see that people's opinions have changed or that they have changed, and in the last election Tapolca elected Jobbik's representative, Lajos Rig, instead of Fidesz's representative. Perhaps this was also part of the nagging response that we received on this very important issue, because of which I can say that we receive letters to Jobbik's headquarters in the thousands of sizes. At the time, I asked in one of my speeches to call for a five-party debate on this matter; of course, we also received a reply to this, just like here in Parliament. We have been told that this is only for political purposes on the part of Jobbik. That's what I call an owl calling a sparrow. After all, who has noticed in recent weeks that mass immigration can pose dangers in Hungary? Because Jobbik noticed this years ago, because it's an important part of his program. Or who's been talking about the possibility of the death penalty? Who can do such political turns? Well, obviously, it's not the Jobbik, it's the current governing party. Of course, the situation has changed since then, since Jobbik's support has increased considerably. What's this about? Allow me to read two very short letters about what people want. One of the letters was written by Laszlo. He writes on this question: . At present we are living time from work to casket. Thousands of people die without living their pensions. I'm 56 years old, I can't take grandchildren, I can't help my children. I'm tired, and I have to work. If grandparents could help them in, young people would have more children because they could be better supported by retired parents. If nothing else, it's taking care of the baby while the parents are working. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here's a constructive suggestion, I'm asking you: why couldn't you talk about it? Why doesn't Laszlo deserve to talk about his thoughts? And why do all those hundreds of thousands of people not deserve to be dealt with on your part, to send someone to at least one five-party meeting, as the LMP has otherwise done, and to discuss this issue? But let's look at another letter. Here's Gábor's letter. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] My dad can't leave with 45 years of work because he's only 62 years old. I am glad that Fidesz MEPs can laugh about this, and I hope that many people watch television broadcasts. She's out physically, she's sick, my mom's the same, she's 36 years old. The extra four years he would have spent in the chemical industry were taken away. He's got four lumbars, two cervical vertebrae at 60, and he's still got four years. I'm afraid he's not gonna make it, but he's not gonna go on disability, because what they're giving him is zero. It's terrible to see my parents suffer, work for rest, and eviscerate them to become crippled, or die before retirement. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad you're not laughing anymore, and maybe you'll take this issue a little more seriously, because we're collecting signatures, hundreds of thousands of signatures have come together, and after the signatures we'll bring the question back here. I trust that by then the government will reconsider its policy, consider its policy and consider the need for a pension reform in Hungary, but not a pension reform to take away private pension funds - and I could say something like that - or to reduce it, please, the possibility of early retirement, or to eliminate it, but to the contrary. Please don't be so insensitive, you'll be retired at some point, maybe soon, and then maybe you'll have a better sense of what physical workers are experiencing today. But don't make me wait, let's move on this matter, please. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-22	Thank you, Congressman, Mr Vice President. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Jobbik has also failed to answer a lot of questions about this topic in recent weeks and in recent months. One might be the question of pension increases in this House over the last four years, since during the period of the laws adopted by Fidesz-KDNP, the purchasing value of pensions increased by 6.9 percent, since inflation in Hungary has essentially ceased, and every year when we decided to raise pensions, the budget counted a larger number, the tax laws counted more, but then the government's right economic policy led to this inflation rate being much lower. At the same time, the value of pensions has been determined according to higher inflation and, of course, this is the higher amount that pensioners have received. And this 6.9 percent, which is now in every Hungarian pensioner's pocket, Jobbik always said no. It is an interesting question here in Parliament why Jobbik did not think of pensioners then, why didn't they vote for these pension increases. Which, if we include this year's pension increase data, we are close to giving the 13th month pension back to pensioners, as this brings us to the level of pension rise of around 8 percent, which gives a month's extra pension to all pensioners in Hungary. But we know why Jobbik raises these proposals, and I still find it strange why Congressman is taking this subject within the Jobbik faction. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Don't tell me who's taking it.]] I mean, he told me himself in his Jobbik Autumn speech that Jobbik needs pensioners right now. Now, a nice little boy, or I don't know what word he used, a nice young man to play, shouldn't be aggressive so as not to be confused with gypsy criminals. [[Adam Mirkóczki: The essence, the essence!]] - that's the term you're using on this recording - but because you can't win an election without pensioners, and therefore Jobbik has to change style and rhetoric, so you change rhetoric and style, and they say such sympathetic words to pensioners. Even though you remain the same as you were, you're just trying to communicate, it seems like you're deceiving these people. We hope that they will remember earlier votes. You are still in debt, Congressman, to tell us why you and your 35 fellow Members did not support it a few minutes after 7:30 p.m. on 20 December 2010. 35 of its better Members all took the same position that they did not support this bill, which introduced for women the possibility of retirement after 40 years of service. [[Tamás Sneider: That's half the problem.]] Why didn't Jobbik vote for this? On December 20, 2010, why did you have a different opinion than you do now? How come you can't find a better man, no one in the faction, who supported this bill for women? [[Adam Mirkóczki: Speak of yourself, not of us. What about the men?]] You may have told us in your last press release or here in Parliament that it's not because it's a salad law and you don't support salad laws. Well, I printed out this law, not one of the longest, four pages, and I don't even need four pages, and the closing provisions include 26 paragraphs. It concerns the amendment of the Act on Self-Entrepreneurs, the amendment of the Law on Armed Bodies, the 2007 LXXXIV. on law and pension law [[Adam Mirkóczki: What is this called? Salad law!]] For women, this 40-year discount was included. Which question was more important to Jobbik than the 40-year-old retirement opportunity for women to vote against this law? [[13.50]] Which of the other three amendments had such weight that Jobbik said that it did not support the retirement of women after 40 years of service, after 40 years of employment and child rearing? I don't see where the reason that Jobbik could have done it is in this 24-stage. This is only evidence, my honourable fellow Members, that you can change your position at any time to 180 degrees, from any policy to the opposite. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Say the Fidesz!]] And if, after the past four years, they've just changed their policies, there's no guarantee that they're going to set another course for themselves over the next four years. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. It's a noise from Jobbik's ranks.]] At the same time, Fidesz-KDNP has been interested in this age group over the past period, which is why in the job protection action plan we have managed to help 362 thousand people over the age of 55 in order to preserve their jobs. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That was not the question!]] With HUF 56 billion, we supported in the job protection action plan that these people, who are more difficult to get a job than 55 years of age, will be kept in work. This has already been done for 362 thousand people. That we accepted this 40-year discount for women, and that was a conscious policy, because we wanted women, ladies, who are subject to increased pressure by having children and raising children, to make a greater sacrifice, so let them have an explicit benefit. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, - Quo vadis? - Mm-hmm. Mr Imre Vejkey, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In Europe and in Hungary, Western culture can be shaken if its central component, Christianity, is shaken. Prince Prímas Mindszenty said that if there were a million people praying, I was not afraid of Hungary; and Schuman said that Europe would be either Christian or not. We Christian Democrats are the protectors of these creeds. Ladies and Gentlemen, The relationship between different social norms has become a sensitive issue in the Western civilization of our time. In our secular world, the majority of voters and thus the individual political parties tend to reject the existence of objective morality, i.e. to reject the natural right thinking. However, nature law repeatedly emerges in every moment of history when politics comes to a crossroads from the point of view of human coexistence, since it sets out the final principles for human-social coexistence. The immeasurableness of moral questions and political imperatives side by side support the eternal timeliness of natural law. Nature law is always found in connection with the questionability of the so-called positive right created by man. This quality, for example, "Don't kill." This command is based on the fact that objective and constant values are real. As it is objective and permanent, contrary to the right to request and to any positive right, it is therefore a general and eternal right. One of these pressing issues today is the question of the possibility or inability to introduce the death penalty. Ladies and Gentlemen, We Christian Democrats acknowledge that a society must protect itself from crimes that are dangerous to society and their perpetrators not only at the level of the individual but also at the level of the community. If the perpetrator commits such a serious crime that it poses an extraordinary threat to the community, the perpetrator will be separated from the healthy tissues of society, or imprisoned. It is undeniable that throughout history, there have been times when isolation was impossible or extremely complicated and dangerous, so the perpetrator was sentenced to death and executed. CHAPTER XXI In Hungary, however, the Hungarian state has the possibility of putting the perpetrators of the crime against life in a harmless way without taking away their life. On a preventive basis, advocates of the death penalty still say the need to introduce it, saying that the death penalty has a deterrent effect, i.e. it is in their view that it can deter potential perpetrators of crimes against life from carrying out their intentions. On the other hand, the fact is that none of this can be proven, and it seems that the threat of a crime against life to the death penalty to the potential perpetrator is, in general, of a very small or no nature. The inevitability of punishment for potential offenders is of real preventive importance. By the way, there is no country in Europe where, after the abolition of the death penalty, Article XX does not apply. The number of manslaughters would have increased in the last century and even decreased in all the countries concerned. Ladies and Gentlemen, As long as judgment is carried out by humans, the possibility of error cannot be excluded. Listening to the news, we hear regularly about cases where the judge misjudged someone's guilt. He sat down years for the crime he didn't commit, although it can't be undone, but at least there's the possibility of continuing life after the error has been noted, which is the death penalty imposed. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is no longer the case. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, we can conclude that it would be a moral responsibility for those legislators who would propose or vote for the re-introduction of the death penalty in Hungary after the communist dictatorship. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches and the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-11-26	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Répássy Robert.
u2015-05-11-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is natural, as it were, scheduled that, after every brutal murder, the issue of re-establishing the death penalty will be on the agenda. It doesn't take long to search for those who would restore the death penalty, just talk to the people in whose cities such a terrible crime has occurred. Honourable Congressman, The speech before the agenda can be answered on behalf of the Government, and I would therefore like to inform you objectively that the Government has not discussed a proposal to restore the death penalty. However, the government deals with all the issues that concern people. There are no taboos in democracy, anything can be argued about. In this spirit, I would like to inform you and the Parliament that the Minister of Justice opposes any irreversible decisions affecting life. Accordingly, it opposes the death penalty. Personally, I believe that a life sentence is worse than the death penalty. I recommend to you the book of Zoltán Bátyi and László Arató, entitled "Life in prison" - Death in tiny sips. In the book, a prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment says: "I've thought about it several times before, I would have been better off if I'd been hanged, because life imprisonment is not punishment, it's retribution, it's much harder than the death penalty. Let us be just, the author's book is rather against life imprisonment, but few people could be convinced that, in the absence of the death penalty, even the actual life sentence will be abolished. On the contrary, the government stands by the actual life sentence [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Tens of thousands of HUF!]] In every forum, we will protect the most serious punishment. If the Strasbourg court still does not find the regulation of life imprisonment satisfactory, we will have another way to ensure that ruthless killers are never released again. [[14.00]] Politicians who have now protested loudly against the death penalty and even protested against the idea itself, I personally suggest that if they really want to take action against the death penalty, they should go to the Embassy of the United States of America and protest there, because there really is a death penalty. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We've already left! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, leader of the Fidesz faction, has also applied for a speech before the agenda: a change in growth and a tax reduction. The 2016 budget before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-05-11-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 budget this week on 13 June, 12 June with tax laws to be submitted to the Parliament. I think that this is a very important moment, because for the first time in Hungary, Hungarian businesses can start planning the next business year with more than six months before 2016 - since Parliament can accept this by the end of June - they will be aware of the tax legislation for 2016 and will be aware of the objectives of the budget. This strengthens predictability and strengthens security for Hungarian businesses. This is good for those Hungarians who receive their jobs from Hungarian businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 budget is, I believe, a budget for a new era. A new era, because in the last five years there has been a process in Hungary. In 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP coalition received the possibility of government from Hungarian voters, we inherited a situation from the MSZP-SZDSZ, Gyurcsány and all other governments, which ended in 2010 that Hungary was in a state of bankruptcy: a huge public debt, a rate of around 85% of GDP, and an extremely high government deficit, and let us not forget that in 2009 there was a historic economic downturn of almost 7 percent in the Hungarian economy, and we did not even talk about the doubling of unemployment. The first task was to consolidate and put the finances of the Hungarian budget in order. That's what we did. 2010 and 2011 were periods of fiscal consolidation. 2012 and 2013 is the year of economic stabilisation, when we had to prepare for growth after the consolidation of the budget, to provide Hungary with the opportunity to preserve jobs and create the turnaround that is needed for growth. At that time, in the middle of 2012, we announced the action plan for the protection of jobs, and for the first time in Hungary, we stabilized unemployment indicators, and then they started to decline continuously, and 2013-2014 is preparing for the turn of growth, and we can now say that 2014-2015 was the year of the turn of growth in Hungary. First, the economy began to grow in substance and stability. We have heard from many here that this is due only to EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen, In many countries of Europe, there are EU funds that can be used, and yet growth is much lower than in Hungary. Hungarian growth is among the first in Europe, and I think this shows that Hungary was able to achieve a real growth turnaround. Growth is always an additional resource. A Hungarian economic growth of around 3 per cent means that the total national product could increase by nearly HUF 1 000 billion, which represents around HUF 700 billion in revenue for the budget. Or to give another example, the fact that, as a result of economic stabilisation in Hungary, we were able to keep interest expenditure down continuously meant that by 2016, the budget would be HUF 300 billion less interest expenditure. The additional income from these can be spent in several ways, honourable Members. We think it's not for the state to take them away from people, but for them to leave them. Therefore, Fidesz and KDNP have asked the government for the 2016 budget to be the budget for the tax reduction. Reduce personal income tax, increase tax relief for children in families with two children - there are 350 thousand families with two children in Hungary; this means that nearly 700 thousand people are affected by this significant tax reduction - and, of course, reduce the VAT on certain foods step by step - this applies mainly to pigmeat - in the coming year, and the state should also reduce the burdens that it pays to Hungarian people to deal with its bureaucratic affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, We consider tax reductions to be the most important, but we do not forget that tax reductions are an opportunity for 4 million working people in Hungary. In addition, there is, of course, a need to increase, if possible, the wages of those working in the state. But that's exactly why we introduced the pedagogical career program, the career program of the armed forces. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And I think that we can continue these in the next year. Therefore, the 2016 budget is also a budget for a new era, a budget for tax cuts and a budget for continuing wage increases. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-30	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2015-05-11-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Team Leader! Indeed, the Fidesz-KDNP government has been planning its sixth budget since the 2010 elections. Although, if I count the redesign of the 2010 budget, we will eventually be preparing the seventh budget. I believe that we have not been able to draw up a budget so calmly in recent years. Indeed, we plan more calmly and under different macroeconomic conditions, and since 2010, budget planning and implementation have been easier every year. It became easier, as Hungary can prepare its 2016 budget in a completely new economic environment. Just a few figures that everyone already knows, but I think it's worth repeating and emphasising. Our economic growth was highest in the European Union last year, 3.6 percent. We've managed to bring the unemployment rate down from over 11 percent to around 7 percent, giving 440,000 people extra work in the last five years. The level of public debt, which the Socialists have raised by 30% to 83 percent, is now below 77 percent and will continue to decline. The rate of inflation was negative last year, and the lack of budget - Hungary came out of the excessive deficit procedure in 2013. But I could tell you about the reduction in premiums, the solution to the problem of foreign exchange credentials, or I could talk about revenue figures, how the budget has stabilised, how the tax revenue from consumption has increased, and how the budget has been able to bear in recent years that personal income tax has dropped significantly to 16 percent. It is true that it is easier to draw up a budget, and it must now follow that people, the poor, the richer, everyone must feel something from the macro numbers. Businesses, public workers, civil servants, civil servants, health workers, teachers, law enforcement workers, everyone, have to take a step forward. We have to take a step, but we can't jump yet. The country is not yet there to allow the budget, the economic conditions to allow us to jump a big one. We're moving forward, moving forward, but everyone in this country can move forward. Everyone who earns income will decrease their personal income tax rate by one percent. Anyone with a child will increase the rate of family tax relief. [[Continued noise in the ranks of opposition parties.]] There will be a decline in basic food, the VAT on pork, but I expect the opposition to know when the speech will come about why the VAT on rich pigs is falling, because it is unfair. I believe that this speech will certainly come during the budgetary debate. [[14.10]] But I also think that, with the progress of career models, the budget provides people with higher incomes. There are two things that the budget can do: reduce the tax - it affects everyone, it affects the competition sector - and increase the incomes of state employees. I think we're on the right track here, too. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] , since life models continue in 2016. These civil servants will be the biggest winners, since their career model will be launched, while teachers and law enforcement workers will continue to have career models. But there will also be fewer unemployed people, as the budget will spend some HUF 70 billion more on public employment in 2016. This will mean that some 40 thousand more, currently unemployed, will find jobs, jobs and income in public employment. Of course, businesses also have a budget surplus and plus, as some HUF 1400 billion of EU funding will be added to the economy for businesses that can create new jobs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The 2016 budget will be a step forward for the whole country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-05-11-33	Dear Parliament, László Lukács, Jobbik; Ikotity István, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Bernadett Szél, LMP; Sándor Szabó, MSZP; Zoltán Készt is independent. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Sándor Font, Fidesz; András Aradszki, KDNP. Mr Benedek, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik submitted a statement after the agenda on Tuesday. On Wednesday, László György Lukács, Jobbik, Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP applied for a speech after the agenda. [[Move.]]
u2015-05-11-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I would like to ask my fellow Members, with all due respect, to take their seats. Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. In the interim election announced for Jobbik Hungary due to the death of our fellow Member Jenő Lasztovicza, Mr.Lajos Rig obtained his mandate as candidate for the Movement for Jobbik Hungary. The congressman informed the President of the Parliament that there was no conflict of interest against him. The committee for examining mandates met before the meeting and examined, on the basis of the electoral documents, the regularity of Mr Rig's credentials. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr. Imre Vejkey, chairman of the immunity committee, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate to the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2015-05-11-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also known to you that on 8 January 2015, the Almighty called off our fellow Member Jenő Lasztovicza, who, as a joint candidate of Fidesz-KDNP nominating organisations, obtained his mandate in the 3rd constituency of Veszprém County. At the interim election held on 12 April 2015, Lajos Rig, the candidate for the Jobbik Hungary Movement, obtained the majority of the votes. Parliamentary Individual Election Committee No.03 of Veszprém County 49/2015. CHAPTER IV In its resolution No 16 of 16 April 2015, the Parliamentary Individual Constituencies of Lajos Rig stated that he had obtained a mandate. On 19 April 2015, the decision became final at 16.00. The transfer of the credentials took place on 21 April 2015. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of § 2, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of Lajos Rig at today's meeting. In his statement, the Member indicated in advance that there was no conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise the rights of his representatives. On the basis of the above, the immunity committee unanimously took the following decision at today's meeting, without abstention or opposition: the immunity committee proposed to the Parliament to confirm Lajos Rig's mandate. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-36	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies the mandate of Mr Rig Lajos. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of Mr.Lajos Rig, with 147 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman Lajos Rig to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I ask Mrs Loránt Hegedűs to read the words of the oath, and the Honourable Parliament, please rise. [[The people in this room stand up. Lajos Rig steps into the middle of the room. Mrs. Loránt Violin will read the words of the oath.]]
u2015-05-11-37	I, Lajos Rig, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2015-05-11-38	Dear Parliament, After the oath, I ask Mr. Ádám Mirkóczki to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Adam Mirkóczki, who signed the oath document, congratulates Lajos Rig and gives a copy of the signed oath document. First, Lajos Rig was congratulated by Gábor Vona, then by Dr. György Rubovszky, Dr. András Schiffer, Antal Rogán and Zoltán Gőgös.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the new Member of Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as said at the House Committee's meeting, there are EU and national agenda items on the agenda. The representatives of the EP in Hungary and the minority advocates were informed about this. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on proposals to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/4708. by serial number. In this he initiates the National Assembly to elect Mr.Tamás Sneider, Mr. Jobbik, and Mr. Lajos Rig, MP, after consulting the Legislative Committee, to be a member of the Committee after the death of Jenő Lasztovicza, István Apáti, better representative, to be a member of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 143 votes in favour, without voting against, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for immunity cases to be discussed and decided. The immunity committee is the 2nd District Court of Kiskunfélegyháza.Bpk.33/2015/3. H/4650. Mr Csaba Hende presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Imre Vejkey, who intends to give the committee's proposal a verbal justification within a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2015-05-11-39	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The District Court of Kiskunfélegyháza 2.Bpk.33/2015/3. In his transcript No. 13, Csaba Hende made a motion to suspend the immunity of MP Csaba for defamation, based on the complaint made by Ágnes Vadai. Ágnes Vadai reported that on the 16th of March 2014 in Kunszállás, on the campaign of Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of Parliament, Csaba Hende, Minister of Defence and Member of Parliament gave a speech. Among other things, he explained that Dr. Ágnes Vadai, who had previously worked as State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, had contracted two companies to manage his own website, despite the fact that it was an obligation of the Ministry of Defence's Communication Department and that his own website should have been managed by Dr. Ágnes Vadai on his own income. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] In his speech, he also said that the D.A. had brought charges against Agnes Vadai. Csaba Hende said that Csaba Hende had falsely claimed that the prosecution had brought charges against Agnes Vadai. In addition, Ágnes Vadai reported that the news was first reported by News TV, and the news was then received by practically the entire Hungarian press. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 5 May 2015. In the absence of any powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act and did not examine the facts in this respect. The purpose of immunity is to ensure the smooth work of the Parliament and its Members. The immunity committee therefore proposes by majority to the Honourable Parliament that Csaba Hende, MP, should not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-11-40	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. I will ask Mr Csaba Hende, Minister, if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Csaba Hende: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether Csaba Hende is suspending his immunity. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament does not suspend the immunity of Congressman Hende Csaba by 25 votes in favour, 122 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee is the 3rd Bpk.32901/2014/1. H/4651. Parliamentary Member Ágnes Vadai presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Imre Vejkey, who intends to give the committee's proposal a verbal justification within a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2015-05-11-41	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of Ms Ágnes Vadai, our committee first examined the issue of the violation of her immunity on the basis of Ms Ágnes Vadai's announcement in this regard. The facts were as follows. The Metropolitan Court as a court of second instance 26.Bpkf.6719/2015/2. In his order No.1 he upheld the decision of the Central District Court of Pesti to prosecute Ágnes Vadai for the offence of defamation. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai believes that this is a violation of her immunity. The immunity committee examined the application, reviewed the underlying documents, the relevant literature, listened to the representative concerned, and, on the basis of this, held by a majority, that the courts in question did not violate the immunity of Dr. Ágnes Vadai, Member of Parliament, and therefore the Parliamentary Act 77. The Committee has not proposed to the Speaker of the House to take the action provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Nándor Gúr.]] Following the above, the immunity committee examined the 3rd Bpkf.32901/201411 of the Central District Court of Pesti. Subscribed by the court, in which Dr. Ágnes Vadai, Member of Parliament, motion for the suspension of his immunity for the offence of defamation on the basis of the complaint by Zoltán Bozó. According to the report, on the 8th of October 2014, on the Internet portal of the National Press Service, as a communication from the Democratic Coalition, part I, article appeared . Our future together? - Are you an accountant at the future Csongrád County General Assembly? It's an address. On the 8th of October 2014, on the Internet portal of the National Press Service, as a communication from the Democratic Coalition, II. As a follow-up to the previous article, another article was published concerning the person who reported it. The article was published in full on the website of the Democratic Coalition, marked by the name of Dr. Ágnes Vadai, Member of Parliament. According to the complaint, he made allegations in the above press products capable of damaging the declared honour. The complainant rejected the accusations and attacks against him and stressed that neither he nor his company had anything to do with the false accounts mentioned in the article and the criminal proceedings related to it, considered the title of the article to be deeply humiliating and defamatory, and refused to be an account maker. [[14.30]] The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 5 May 2015. In the absence of any powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act and did not examine the facts in this respect. Based on the incessant practice in the private prosecution case, the immunity committee proposes by majority to the Honourable Parliament that the parliamentary representative Ágnes Vadai not suspend his immunity in the case in question. In summary, I must stress that this House must vote only on the issue of the suspension of immunity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-42	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. I will ask Ms Ágnes Vadai if she wishes to speak about the suspension of her immunity. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai says no.]] It says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the parliamentary immunity of the congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether she will suspend the immunity of Ms Ágnes Vadai, Member of Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament does not suspend the immunity of Ms Ágnes Vadai with 19 votes in favour, 127 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:31 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Sándor Burány, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, How long do you intend to fool foreign exchange lenders? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2015-05-11-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm guessing you'll answer. Foreign exchange lenders received the settlement notice from their bank these days. Given the welcome, I'm sure you're not surprised by the indignation that the press reports, and that comes from the letters that came to me. The complaints are consistent: many cannot interpret the contents of the letters, they do not understand how, on what basis, the numbers came out. And it really needs to be explained that authentic people still owe their bank a lot of money even after the settlement. The people involved are not simply disappointed, but feel they have been deceived, above all by the fact that you have flogged the expectations. This time, too, irresponsible communication campaigns promised to reduce the repayments by 20-30%. Half of that is not true. Dear Secretary of State, It is clear from the accounts that you have made the currency-loaners the slopes in 2010. Fidesz politicians' mixed-up speech at that time broke down the forint exchange rate, dramatically increasing credit debts. They didn't even try to strengthen the forint. Their attention was limited to helping the wealthy who could pay their debt at a favourable exchange rate without difficulty. For the majority trapped in the debt trap, the pathetic old estate was offered a solution. You have swept off our proposal without blinking at the rate of settlement at the time of the change of government in 2010. This would have been fair and fair, which would have brought about a real reduction in the burden. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you, how long do you intend to fool people? Do you personally feel responsible for the government's devious decisions? Does the government plan to provide a meaningful solution for foreign exchange lenders or leave them to their fate? I look forward to your reply.
u2015-05-11-44	Thank you, Congressman Burány. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-11-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that your concern for foreign exchange credentials is now, in 2005, already uncredited. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: 2015!]] In 2015. It's very uncredited. Allow me to provide you with three evidences. The first evidence is that under your government, between 2002 and 2010, the problem of foreign exchange lenders developed, because you could not provide society with better financial conditions, so you allowed them to take on foreign exchange loans without a limit, without a neck, and even encouraged them to use foreign currency loans for consumption, car leasing and other goods. There is basically no problem with this, but they have failed to fulfil their responsibility as a government and as the then PSF to warn the banks, through the banks, about the risks they are taking. Under your governance, nearly 2 million people were indebted to foreign exchange loans in Hungary; they owed thousands of billions of HUF to the banks. The other thing that confirms your lack of credibility with the MSZP on this issue is that in the period that followed, they could not provide a real solution. I will give you an example of this, because in December 2013, when the solution was already outlined, Tibor Szanyi said that the MSZP said that it should be legally possible for all foreign exchange lenders to renegotiate their contract, either by transferring their credit to one of the other financial institutions. This was the proposal of the MSZP in December 2013, which would obviously not have been a solution for millions of people. They did not have any suggestions for a solution years after the problem was brought to light! [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Why wasn't it 180 forints? Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] Let me also say that, and prove your inadequacy, that in 2014 you adopted the Fidesz Government's proposal for a solution, because in July 2014, you voted in favour of the First Foreign Exchange Credit Act, which declared the exchange rate gap null and void. They couldn't say another alternative and bring it to Parliament, but accepted the government's proposal. [[Why are you lying? That's not true! Anita Beringes: And the HUF 180?]] Then, in September 2014, when we submitted the settlement law to the Parliament, which, because of unilateral contractual amendments and the nullity of the exchange rates, meant the payment of compensation, you also voted in favour of this bill, so you accepted the Government's proposal and did not simply have any alternative and ideas. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Isn't it 180 HUF? That was the suggestion! Don't lie to me. Zoltán Haughty: 180 HUF!]] Honourable Congressman, Now when Fidesz closes this social problem [[Anita Herring: Yeah, is this closed?!]] It is quite obvious that 1 million 900 000 stakeholders will always be those who do not comply with the given settlement, there will always be difficult cases; this has legal solutions: first, the banks must be contacted, and within 60 days the bank will have to respond to a decision to raise the client. They always find them, but the idea that you know the solution here is simply untrue and unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-46	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Burány if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-11-47	Mr President, this answer is unacceptable. First of all, because the Secretary of State is lying. The MSZP fraction has submitted at least five legislative proposals to assist foreign exchange lenders. It simply doesn't correspond to the fact that you don't know about it, you don't talk about it. Secondly, your government, Viktor Orbán's first government, made it possible by law in 2001 to spread foreign currency loans in Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] Third: In 2010, HUF 265 had to be paid for 1 euro and HUF 180 for 1 Swiss franc. By contrast, today it costs HUF 304 for 1 euro and HUF 292 for 1 Swiss franc. This is why we proposed that foreign exchange loans be HUFed at the 2010 exchange rate, not at the rate that resulted in a weakened HUF due to your economic policy. [[14.40]] I remind Mr. Secretary of State [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That Congressmen Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó first broke the forint, and that your economic policy kept it going. The answer is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-48	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How long? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2015-05-11-49	Mr President, Dear House, In the last few days, sobering up is being lived by those who expected a great deal from this government in order to settle the situation of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. It can be seen that, while in 2014, let us say, Lajos Kósa was able to say - quite rightly, I add - that the market rate would make people trapped in a foreign currency loan trap impossible, so it doesn't make any sense, and this is not the intention - it was a very correct statement - the line of action has unfortunately shown something else, and they have put the credit victims in a systemic situation where, after several years of fair, honest repayments - I say once again, without a single unpaid instalment - the person's capital debt after your settlement is still higher than it originally was, still has to be repaid to the bank more than they hired. So it is not an exaggeration to state, it typically occurs on a systemic basis with victims who have received an amount of less than HUF 15 million, that they have been paid to the bank for years, and as a gift, Fidesz-KDNP's legislation is crediting it to banks' accounts, while it is not bank money, it is the Hungarian people's money. It can also be seen that while 10-20-25-30 per cent of the repayment allowance has been promised to people - including pro-government prominents - there has been a great deal of dispersal in terms of promises - reality shows that this average is up to 10 per cent, as far as the repayment allowance is concerned, but not least in terms of capital debt, there will in many cases be a huge increase in the capital debt of the person for a shorter term, and there is no guarantee that there will be a massive increase in the repayment of the affected citizens due to subsequent interest or other. At the same time, you can see that this 10-20% apparent concession - which, again, is apparent - is facing something. It is against the fact that you have allowed 70 percent of the exchange rate difference to fall on people's neck on average between the exchange rate at the time of admission and the exchange rate at the market rate. This 70 percent burden - we are talking about very serious hundreds of billions, by the way - was allowed to fall on people's necks. Let me give you an understandable example: you took up HUF 18.3 million from the head of the NGO that you didn't speak to, whose petition you refused to accept against their promise on the 7th, and this person calculated that if you paid your debt on the basis of the bank's instructions and dictatorship for the end of the term, you would certainly pay back HUF 48 million to his HUF 18.3 million. There is no legal environment, no climate to justify this! You can't justify it either. So the question is: when will they withdraw their accounting package that legitimizes financial garbage and when will a fair settlement plan be presented? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-50	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-11-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If we were to interpret the house rule literally and take it seriously now, then I would not have to answer after not saying one word from the interpellation submitted in essence. But I do not wonder, because in this interpellation, which you have submitted in writing - according to the house rules anyway - you have asked six questions, and, if I may, I would like to answer them. The first is:. The settlement is recommended to be interpreted as a reduction in the repayment of the debt doubled in some places by 10-20 percent per month? - That's what you're asking. I believe that the interpretation of the accounts is clearly the responsibility of the client and the bank. If anyone has a problem with accounting - because it is a really complicated calculation - and with forinting, they need to turn to their bank in the first place. This must be done within 30 days of the receipt of the settlement, and the bank has 60 days to close it. It is not out of the question that the bank could have made a mistake in the settlement, since they had to do a job that was not certain to contain any errors, so out of the 1 million 900 thousand notifications, there could be a bank or within the bank the programme or the administrator who made a mistake in this case. One thing is certain: on average, payments should be reduced by 15-25 percent. His second question is: What about unduly burdened millions? You're talking about the exchange rate risk you're dealing with. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that the Curia has clearly stated that the risk of exchange rates cannot be taken over by the client either by the bank or by the state or by anyone else. Unfortunately, the resulting disadvantage, i.e. the additional payment, has to be paid by the client, unlike the damage caused by the exchange rate conversion and the unilateral interest rate increase, because it is reimbursed by the banks to the customers in this settlement. You've told me several times that the government has agreed with the Banking League. I simply have to say that I have to rebut that this is completely absurd, this is a political saying by Jobbik. I do not know how to agree with someone to introduce the bank tax, that they pay a significant part of the transaction fee, which represents an additional burden of a hundred billion per year, and then at the end, when the foreign currency credit is cleared, a thousand billion will be reimbursed otherwise. Thank you very much for such a pact, I would certainly not be pleased if I were on the Bank Alliance's side. I think it's completely absurd. I don't know why you're bringing this here. The private institution of bankruptcy was discussed at first reading by the government, and soon the Ministry of Justice will bring it to Parliament. Obviously, then does the question (b) make sense that it is true that the initiativer would even interfere with whether or not he could obtain the child's tuition? I'm sorry, I can't answer that right now, and the law will. The situation of the victims: after receiving the settlement, you must contact the bank first and then, if there are any further disputes, the conciliation body of the Hungarian National Bank. If it still hasn't settled, the court's way is still open. What I can tell you is that both the government and the Hungarian National Bank are concerned that if the banks or any of the institutions concerned miscalculate with the client, the client will not be harmed by the law. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So both the government and the Hungarian National Bank will continue to pay attention to the customers concerned, and if there is a mistake, they will be protected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the house rules require that the submitted interpellation text be read. We were hoping you'd sum it up in substance at the end. I'm asking you to recall your question of interpellation, and to give the answer on this basis. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-53	Mr President, Dear House, I am very sorry that we have just heard the Hungarian voice of the banks as Secretary of State. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The material on the paper does indeed contain the serious issues that we have raised now, which I have added orally. It can be said that when Mr Secretary of State tries to refute the government's pact with banks, he forgets that they themselves held a press conference at the beginning of the year, the representative of the government held a press conference on the agreement with the Banking Association for lending from 2016 onwards. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] With the Banking Association which announced in 2006 that foreign exchange loans did not pose any threat to the population, since exchange rates could not be lost. That's how well you two work together. That is why there is a need to finally meet the credit-damaged ones who may be better at this issue - on the 7th they did not accept their petition despite their promise - and then do not tolerate the fact that, in addition to the category of unfairly charged amounts, the banks concerned are allowed to indicate zero forints. Finally, break the pact with the Banking Alliance and finally take the side of the Hungarian people. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.50]]
u2015-05-11-54	Thank you very much. The answer was not accepted by the congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 37 against and 4 abstentions. I must add, Mr President, that an oral amendment can only be made with the consent of the person who is responding. I respectfully say this to the other congressmen and ladies. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What are the conditions under which we can get out of Paks II? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-05-11-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The other day, the President of the Russian Federation reminded Hungary's Prime Minister that they are political allies, and they also sent us here that it would be very bad for us to withdraw from this alliance. I would like to point out that the May Other is a fatal error in politics and has been critical from the very beginning that the Prime Minister of Hungary has joined Putin's henchman in the naughty struggle in which Russia intends to strengthen its nuclear influence in the EU area. It is clear that Putin is testing the European Union's immune system through the Paks enlargement, and it is more than regrettable that Viktor Orbán is a true paddock in this project. In the meantime, Hungary is becoming a major power plaything, and the sovereignty of Hungary is at risk. In our view, the Prime Minister must acknowledge that this virtuosity is against our country's national interests, reject pressure and withdraw from the treaty. The question is, of course, under what conditions we can withdraw from this contract. The amount of the penalty is hidden from the public, but the Minister himself has repeatedly vaguely stated that certain costs are inevitable during the winter. To answer my first question, please clarify how much it costs to leave the Paks II contract. Since then, there has been a very interesting development. Péter Szijjártó mentioned at his ministerial hearing that he still has some controversial issues to discuss with the US regarding Paks II. You're like Paks II. The owner of the project obviously knows what the subject of this debate is, so please report to the Parliament's public on exactly what you have discussed with the US regarding Paks II. This is also interesting, because Hungary is obviously concerned, because we pay for all of this, the game is on our shoulders, and there is also the European Union and Russia. But what does the United States of America have to do with this, Minister? I have two more questions for today. One relates to the fact that last week, the Secretary of State of Aradsk mentioned that it would cost HUF 745 billion to manage waste related to Paks II. I respectfully ask how you calculated this, which is the document from which you can learn exactly how this HUF 745 billion is compiled. This is also interesting because there are four blocks in this country now, and RHK Kft., the state company responsible for waste management, calculated HUF 1674 billion that the cost of waste management related to the current four blocks will be HUF 1674 billion. It is clear that in the Central Nuclear Fund, according to your statement, there is 240 billion forints, which actually covers 15 percent of the total cost. I respectfully ask you to try to raise the remaining 85% in the coming years. A raise? By turning into taxpayers' money? What will be your method? Dear Minister, I'm waiting for your answer on four questions. I asked you about waste management, I asked you about the involvement of the United States of America in the project. And with all due respect, I would also like you to answer how much it costs to quit the Paks II contract. Thank you.
u2015-05-11-56	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-05-11-57	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear Congresswoman, If I may, I would like to begin by saying that in the coming years, as you may know, this is particularly true since April 2015, since the European Commission has already agreed for the second time to conclude an international treaty between Hungary and Russia on the maintenance of the Paks nuclear power plant's capacity, and from now on, I think we can say with regard to the acquisition of fuel, that all major obstacles have been removed from maintaining the nuclear power plant's capacity. It would be worth it - as a Member of Parliament, I would support this, and I would recommend it to you for consideration - to set up a standing parliamentary committee that would be available to all my fellow Members of Parliament for all detailed professional questions over the next ten years, of course involving the work of experts. I note here that, of course, to resolve the debate, this interpellation seems to be a short period of time, which is the political credo of the LMP, i.e. anti-nuclearity. We are not talking to you about how the nuclear power plant should be implemented properly, but you are opposed to the existence of a nuclear power plant in the first place. But this is another debate, and we are already having the debate here in Parliament - it certainly has not been overlooked - on how to achieve the nuclear power plant well. But the basic dispute, which is the policy programme of the LMP, that when the operating permit for the Paks I nuclear power block expires in Hungary, the nuclear power generation should cease, well, this debate was conducted by the Parliament between 2010-14. You have made this the subject of parliamentary elections, but you have clearly not won the social majority, because you are not a majority, but a minority in Parliament, so we can no longer conduct this debate. If you are initiating this debate, I see no obstacle for myself. But the one thing we need to say clearly is that if the current capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant ceases in Hungary, Hungary will lose the cheapest source of electricity production. Today in Hungary, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant provides 40% of the total electricity used, and this is the cheapest electricity production. Every source of electricity that exists in Hungary, including wind wheels, solar energy, power generation of power plants, is five times as expensive as the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Then you claim nothing less than to make the electricity five times more expensive, just to ensure that the LMP's political programme is fulfilled. [[Noise on the opposition side. Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not true! That's not true! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's my opinion. In my view, this is not a correct political position, because we are all, you and us, interested in continuous reductions in overhead and in low-cost electricity. As far as your specific questions are concerned, everything took place on the basis of the conclusion of the Treaty in Finland, which was approved by the European Commission. Russia has agreed with Finland, presented this to the European Commission, and Hungary has agreed in the same way as Finland and is approved by the European Commission. On 14 January 2014, the European Commission announced our international agreements and then discussed them in two rounds. The termination of the financial agreement was also discussed by Parliament, there is no obstacle to early repayment - Hungary's financial opportunities are coming closer to this, I note - and on the other hand, there is no legal obstacle to the termination of the international agreement. Although I would add why it would make sense, as President Putin referred to, Hungary has concluded the best nuclear power plant implementation contract in Europe in recent decades. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Putin is right!]] which could be a long-term guarantee. Listen to the leaders of the German industry, take the trouble, Congresswoman, and listen to the leaders of the German industry who say: Hungary's competitiveness depends on cheap energy and, of course, on the skilled workforce. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You will serve the country!]] This requires the maintenance of the capacity of this power plant. We don't negotiate with the Americans on any matter, Congresswoman, that's what I can tell you. All costs of waste disposal are included in the current price of electricity, so there will be no increase in electricity prices. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-58	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask the inter-pellling women who will accept or reject the ministerial response. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind!
u2015-05-11-59	Dear Minister, Please don't try to interpret the LMP's political credo, because it doesn't seem to work out for you. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] In addition, you are the minister who has announced so many times that all obstacles to the Paks enlargement have been removed, that somehow no one will believe you. Several infringement proceedings are still under way in relation to illicit goods subsidies, competition law issues, and secret law. You can trust, Minister, that you still have a lot to do in Brussels to clarify the conditions. But let's not get past the point. I am very pleased, Minister, that you have reassured the entire Parliament and Hungary that this is good for President Putin. That's what I wanted to know. You have concluded a treaty that is good for Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation. But what about Hungary? He didn't say anything about that. I had four questions. You didn't answer anything. Did he tell you about the exit costs? He didn't tell me. Were you talking about waste management? Paks I didn't speak, Paks II didn't speak. with respect to: And he lied to his own fellow minister, Peter Szijjártó, because he denied that they would negotiate with the U.S. Which minister should we now believe, John Lazarus or Peter Szijjártó? Clear the air between you two. I don't accept it. [[15.00]]
u2015-05-11-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman did not accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take the minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 104 votes to 23, with 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Márius Révész, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How is it possible that the government and the Institute of Economic Research and the Institute of Budgetary Responsibility consider the budgetary situation of the Hungarian economy so differently? It's an address. Congressman Márius Révész has the floor.
u2015-05-11-61	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the government published Hungary's convergence programme, in which it increased the rate of economic growth from 2.5 per cent this year to 3.1 per cent, with declining deficits, rising employment, significant real wage increases and increased consumption. The next day, András Vértes said at a conference organised by the MSZP that the Hungarian economic policy has failed badly, and this year's rate of economic growth will be only 2 and up to 2.5 percent. However, this is a significant step forward, since in March, a month ago, it was only expected to increase to 2 percent. András Vértes also said that, in the absence of restrictions, the reopening of the excessive deficit procedure could be on the agenda again this spring. The obviously completely independent Economic Research Institute is not alone in its negative vision. The Institute of Budgetary Responsibility, also often quoted by left-wing media, wrote in February 2014:. The growth rate of gross domestic product in 2014 is temporarily increasing to 2 percent as a result of loose monetary and slacking fiscal policies, but the rate of expansion is below 1 percent in 2015. In the 2014 budget analysis, the Institute of Budgetary Responsibility saw a risk of HUF 170 billion in VAT. In December 2014, the same institute saw that the pace of economic growth will not be 1 percent this year, but could reach 2.3 percent, but the expected growth of 2.5 percent by the government is too optimistic. Retail consumption can grow by 1 percent this year, which is much slower than the government expected, 2,6 percent, and the government deficit will be stuck at a high level, the debt ratio will stabilize at around 79 percent according to the Institute, and there will probably be a need for austerity. The facts in 2014 were as follows: instead of 2 percent, the increase was 3.6 percent, the debt decreased to 76.9 percent instead of 79 percent, and the VAT was not 170 billion, but 23 billion forints. I would like to quote as an interesting fact that, for example, according to a recent forecast by Morgan Stanley London, GDP may increase by up to 3.5 percent in Hungary this year, and growth can primarily be supported by domestic demand. It is strange that there is such a contradiction between a foreign institution and the Hungarian institution. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State: who will be right this year, the rate of growth will be 2 percent or 3.1 percent? Is the debt ratio stuck or falling? Is there an excessive deficit procedure in Hungary in the absence of a austerity package? After the projections of recent years, can the Institute of Budgetary Responsibility and the Institute of Economic Research be taken seriously? And what could be the reason why foreign institutions otherwise see the Hungarian economy more positively than analysts of GKI and RFI? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-11-63	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you say, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian model, is increasingly being dealt with by economists, analysts, investors, whether in Hungary or abroad. We find that we now receive almost more recognition from abroad because of the country's performance than from several domestic institutes. Indeed, as you have said, as a result of the country's performance, the government is expecting a major increase in the convergence programme by 2015, since we have increased GDP growth from 2.5 percent to 3.1 percent. Obviously, this is the case with several factors: this year, and the following year, governments expect higher growth than the EU average: in particular, consumption of households, but also external factors, low oil prices and improving labour market trends, higher employment and, not least, the settlement of foreign currency loans, which can affect the performance of the economy. In 2015, growth will also be based on investment growth. The acceleration of EU funds and the favourable interest environment have been very good for the size of Hungarian investments, thus pushing the growth of the economy forward. I believe that this growth performance, as you have said and I stress, has been noticed both in Europe and outside Europe. The European Commission also recognises Hungary's performance, and, if we look back, some years ago, we received rather ominous data from the European Commission. Today, macroeconomic indicators are essentially the same as those of the government. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But the same is the case, for example, with the lack of public finances. After all, the fact that Hungary has been able to meet the budget deficit of less than 3 per cent for 4-5 years now has given rise to very serious recognition. The IMF, the IMF that is not a friend of our country for business reasons, has just today modified all its macroeconomic indicators about Hungary, and all of them positively, so upward. The IMF can do this because I think they have an interest in being objective and credible. The IMF makes a living on the market so that it can invest and allocate its financial resources. Unlike the two institutions mentioned by you, especially this particular Institute of Budgetary Responsibility, which is quite well-known, but we can see that according to your forecasts it is not responsible for him, but rather political compliance with his clients. Because this institution receives its funds from the Home and Progress Foundation, the left-wing foundation linked to Gordon Bajnai, so it doesn't have to comply on the market. He doesn't care about credibility, he doesn't care about objectivity. He can speak irresponsiblely, write irresponsiblely. The media will write it, of course, but we know that reality is quite different. The reality is that the Hungarian economy is making good progress. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-64	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-11-65	Dear Secretary of State, The Institute of Economic Research and the Institute of Budgetary Responsibility are trying to make themselves appear as independent analysts, but these companies are very, very far from objectivity and credibility. If we compare the last year's projections of these institutions with reality, we can see that they are not in a thank-you relationship. We can say, using the words of András Vértes, that the Institute of Economic Research and the Institute of Budgetary Responsibility have seriously and clearly failed in the knowledge of data and facts. These institutions cannot be regarded as economic analysts; they cannot be taken seriously in an economic sense; these companies have political communication tasks. Their job is to try to discredit the government's results as much as possible. Looks like that's why they get their money. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply and, of course, I accept it. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Who doesn't have an investment is worth so much? There's money for bank compensation, but there's no money for the poorest to be left without care? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. [[15.10]]
u2015-05-11-67	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The transformation of the relief system on 1 March has put hundreds of thousands of families living in poverty in serious situations, and the new system has abolished countless benefits previously regulated by law. The most serious of these was the abolition of housing support, as this normative care had previously affected nearly half a million families. But many were also affected by a number of benefits. I have to mention that patients, in many cases elderly people, have received about 36,000 people in the public health care system, with an equity care fee of over 10,000 people. The municipal aid helped those in need in a total of 850 thousand cases - no mistake, 850 thousand. The municipalities to whom the fate of those concerned has been entrusted are unable to provide adequate benefits from their own resources or from low State aid. In many settlements, benefits have been reduced to amounts that are not capable of providing meaningful help to families, and in many places they have not even created new ones to replace the cancelled subsidies. It adds that the minimum amount of the old-age pension has been 28 500 HUF since 2008. The people we're talking about are about a million people and hundreds of thousands of families, they got 20-30 thousand forints a month, which they need. With these few tens of thousands of forints, they live well below the minimum living, in far greater poverty than a European country could tolerate. For many, this is no longer the case, because the state has taken the aid, and the municipality cannot or does not want to replace it. Meanwhile, as I see it, the government grants 64,000 Buda-Cash clients, 32,000 Quaestor clients full compensation of ten or even a hundred billion forints. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State, who doesn't have an investment is worth so much? Why don't you make up for the families that you think are victims of the reformation of aid, why do you expect the 60-year-old to do community service when a few months ago he was relieved of community service? And I ask Mr Secretary of State why half a million families have been deprived of housing support, and I also ask you why they think that there is no need to support families living in poverty. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-69	Thank you very much for the floor. I would obviously reject more of the Member's speech, but most of all, what is about confronting social groups, because you are confronting the victims of brokers' affairs with people who, for some reason, are in a difficult situation and are asking for aid or other state aid and receive it from the state. In no way do I think the direction you have said is right; it is as if you were saying that instead of helping people who have been harmed in various brokers' scandals, the government should only and exclusively consider rethinking the aid system. On the one hand, we believe that the new system of aid is also working well, and on the other hand, we cannot accept this kind of firm rejection of the compensation of those involved in the broker's case. It is equally important for us to help this 96,000 people who have put their earned earnings into these savings and are trying to protect their property there. We refuse if the MSZP does not agree that these people will be compensated for their investments. On the other hand, with regard to its criticism of the general system of aid, it is important to point out that there are aids which the municipalities no longer need to provide for their own contribution, but are fully financed automatically and by a 100% public budget. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings of meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings of meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings of meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings of meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings of meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings, All of these are therefore financed in full by a hundred percent from budgetary resources, without the existing self-reliance of the local government. The rest of the previous aid will be replaced by municipal aid, but we are not simply asking the municipalities to establish a material basis for this aid, as their revenues from local business tax are not the only ones that serve this purpose. At the richest few dozen settlements, yes, but at the other 3150 settlements, we opened up a special fund of HUF 30 billion for those with lower tax power in Hungarian, with lower incomes and probably more people who need support in the settlement, well, for them we are trying to give support from this new budget of HUF 30 billion. And those who are still in a difficult situation can benefit from this year's 5 billion HUF increase in the grant base of the so-called self-hit fund, the municipalities in difficulty without their own failure. However, it is important to see in the entire budget if we look at aid from a bird's perspective and from a higher level, that, in terms of social aid - not only of aid, not only of direct aid to local authorities, but also of public work programmes as a social element - we spend more than HUF 30 billion on this area compared to HUF 380 billion last year. We spend 411 billion forints to help people who are in a difficult situation. We can now give more and more people jobs, 400,000 more people working than five years ago. This is perhaps the most important one, because learning for young people is a permanent way out of poverty, and for older people and adults it can certainly be a way of creating jobs. Today there are 400 thousand more people working, and many of them are obviously involved in community service and public employment, but we are also happy about that, as it is much more than they could receive from aid. The family-type taxation system is the main help for those in difficulty. And what the congressman wrote in his text is: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in place of family support forms, in place of employment support, these people have health and child care support at their disposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-11-70	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-71	Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer from the very point you mentioned at the very end. The State Secretary of another portfolio replied to me that there are thousands of people who will fall out for example in the relationship between employment replacement aid and regular social assistance. After all, regular social assistance has ceased, and there is only one person in a family who can get a Pht, and consequently thousands of people will be left without care. If we have to look at this from a bird's perspective, then I can tell that the entire relief system has been destroyed and the social security system is in ruins. As I hear it, according to the convergence programme, they want to withdraw an additional HUF 300 billion from the supply system in the coming years. If you and the government really wanted to help, you would support our motion to re-introduce housing support and assign it to the districts and include it in municipal support in terms of equity care. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the forms of support that were already in place. I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 87 yeses, 31 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.• Retirement reform for orange, or fidesz magic. With the abolition of early retirement, do the fractional years acquired and the contributions paid disappear? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Czomba, on behalf of Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, responds to the interpellation. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2015-05-11-73	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Abolishing the possibility of early retirement has put a number of workers at unfair disadvantage. Let's go through the most undecided cases. Women had two years of age after 8 years and men after 10 years. The discount increased by another year for women in 4 and 5 years for men in age-enabled jobs. Some workers have not completed 4 or 5 years, only one month is missing in order to validate their discount and retire. You can't do that because of your irresponsible policy. This will require you to work for at least five more years, if your health permits and meets your health requirements. [[15.20]] If not, your irresponsibleness will get you out of the labour market and become a job seeker, a community worker. These people chose a profession that involved increased physical or psychic use of the human body. They've worked their lives off in a job that's harmful to health. Their sacrifice is clear, they ask for nothing but what is right: they can retire a few years earlier. Dear Secretary of State, What about the fractional or fractional times? But let's keep looking. The employer paid an additional 13 per cent contribution to the social security and pension fund, which was managed and paid from wage increases. However, with the full termination of the early retirement pension, the question rightly arises: what will be the fate of the paid bonus? Do the workers get it in any form? Either way, it's for them, because they could've gotten it in a raise, but they gave it up because of the hope of a future preferential retirement. You are either too lazy to think about early retirement, or you are completely uninterested with Hungarian workers. My question is not primarily for me to answer, but for the miners, miners, workers in transport, workers under the influence of ionization radiation, and I could tell you a lot more about their jobs. These are the professions for which the right to early retirement is clearly demonstrated by the surveys carried out so far due to health, psychological or physical overload. Dear Secretary of State, What about the fractional or fractional times? What will be the fate of the bonus paid? Where's the amount of 13 percent contributions gone? I ask for a substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-74	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Sándor Czomba responds to the interpellation. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let us first clarify why this early retirement scheme was necessary and why it had to be abolished. By default, it is the employer's duty to ensure safe and healthy working conditions and working conditions. If everyone could ensure this, there would be virtually no need for any compensation. We know very well that this is not the case, and therefore, in some way, those who work in such jobs must be cared for. You're telling me why we didn't maintain this old system. There were 800 jobs, honourable Member, in the previous period, which gave us the opportunity to qualify. And let me just say, if you've mentioned an example, let's say, if any, a waiter working in a rail buffet or, if any, a cleaner could retire eight years earlier, at 57 years old, while otherwise a man working in a paint factory was given zero days. So, in Hungarian, how just or unfair it was, there are obviously many examples that could be given, but perhaps this makes sense. What you said about the fractional time, indeed, is the problem here, because ten years and eight years are the first option when men and women can get two years, and there are those who have, say, nine and a half years. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is certainly worth thinking about here, and we are also discussing this in the VKF, the consultation forum of the competition sphere, but I would also like to point out that if, in the case at hand, someone decided that after eight years of such employment they might have changed jobs and that they were no longer suitable for the benefit, then they lost their eight years in the same way as you are talking about. So I think it's worth thinking about the fraction of time here, but it's gonna take some serious thought. Those who obtained the right until December 31, 2014 will receive it the same way, miners and miners, but I could list here from the bus drivers to everyone who obtained the right. And here comes another interesting question, what you said. There is no doubt that 13 percent plus contributions were paid by employers who employed such people. If I translate this, say, in 2013, 19 billion HUF came in for 44,000 people, and the budget paid 16 billion HUF for 11,000 people. So you do realize that the deposit of four people made it possible for one person to leave. My simple question is, if we continue to maintain this system, then where is the 160,000 people in years' time who will be able to finance it for this 44,000 people who have worked in this position at the moment. So I would like to draw attention to this: not only did the budget take away from this, but in the coming years, when this 44,000 people retire, the budget will have to pay serious billion forints so that we can finance this system, otherwise, who rightly obtained its entitlement in the previous period. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as I mentioned earlier, we are discussing, at the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Competition and Government, that we are discussing employers, workers and the government side, and we are looking at how the gap caused by stopping early retirement can be managed where we want to maintain a fair, efficient and well-functioning system in later years. I hope that we will have the opportunity to do so, but I will not tell you a secret that we are having difficult negotiations and that we are not talking about the government side, but also about employers and employees, because we are talking about a very complex problem. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-77	Mr President, Dear House, I am also very pleased that there is a sensible debate and that I am getting sensible answers to my questions, unlike the one before the agenda. But, of course, that answer did not reassure me at all. After all, what I asked is not for those who have already retired, but for those who are now retiring in the coming years, and, as you have admitted, Mr Secretary of State, their business is not settled at all. There's total uncertainty right now. Besides, for almost six months now, people who cannot take advantage of these opportunities have been retiring. Of course, Jobbik stands constructively on this issue, and we will therefore submit a proposal for a resolution, which will discuss the issue of fractional time. I trust that the government will consider this, at least, and will definitely put an end to this matter. I don't think it's good for you to listen to the fact, even for years, that the fate of these people is not settled, the fate of many tens of thousands of people is practically settled; that the sword of Damocles is constantly spinning over their heads, because this matter is not being dealt with. That's why I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote. There are 94 votes in favour, 1 votes in favour and 0 abstentions on the scoreboard.]] The Parliament's reply to the State Secretary's opinion 94 yes... [[Noise. Critics: He didn't accept it. There's no power in power. It's a total meltdown. It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and I would ask for the restoration of the quorum. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Since the House was not capable of a quorum, we are not making a decision on the issue of this interpellation. [[Noise, uproar in opposition ranks. Intercoms: roll call!]] The list will be established, the decision will be postponed to the next meeting. [[Noise. Crying from the opposition side: He did not accept it!]] House rules 14. § (2) - please be informed. We'll get back to work. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What are the experiences in the community service of high school students before graduation? It's an address. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the floor. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[15.30]]
u2015-05-11-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm guessing you'll answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes.]] As we know, starting next year, the only way to apply to a 12th grade high school student for a graduation exam is to do 50 hours of community service before that. This measure was introduced by the Public Education Act, which was established in 2011, in order to develop the desire to work for others in young people, to love volunteer work and to make sacrifices on their own as adults. This measure, taken for an undisclosed educational purpose, is even more current and justified today, as the social need for solidarity is increasing, the number of people in need of help from others is not falling, and young people are increasingly in need of real work experience. Community service is therefore an activity that students choose along their values, develop their own personality and skills, and do so without financial consideration, for the interests of a community; it is a practical field where, in addition to the numerous theoretical knowledge and learning achievements acquired at school, they develop their cooperative skills, empathy, creativity, responsibility, experience in the operation of various organizations, jobs, social problems, and can also try themselves as active, active, serving individuals. Over the past two years, we have gathered a number of information and gained a lot of positive experiences about the fact that although the 2016 date was still remote, in many high schools students have already started community service. Because this time next year - no fairy tales! - all graduates will have to give an account of their accomplishment, and we want a clear picture of how we stand in this area in time. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: how many high school students in the 11th grade have started or completed community service, and what percentage is this? Are there, and if so, what are the differences between public, religious, and private schools, high schools, and vocational schools? And finally, what are the generalised experiences, what kind of jobs have been chosen and in what proportion, how did students, parents, teachers, and do they even seem to achieve the goals set four years ago? I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, there was enough time for everyone to prepare for this extremely important task, since it is very important, in addition to the teaching material taught in regular classes, that people experience in practice what it is like to do for others. If one tastes at volunteer work as a young person, before the age of 18, and experiences the joy, the feeling that he himself has become a better person, he has become more by acting completely voluntarily for others, without any counterclaim and doing something good, then he may also practice it better in his adult life. Many times, we talk a lot about the importance of volunteering, so that if a taste of this has been given to someone in high school, a vocational high school, he may want to practice it later. This 50-hour community service can be carried out in a wide range of frameworks, whether in the field of health care, social affairs, charitable, educational, cultural, community, environmental protection, nature conservation, disaster protection, kindergarten, children with special needs, sports or leisure activities with students, elderly people, or even in the field of crime and accident prevention of police tasks. So it seems that there are a wide range of areas where this community service can be done by everyone. And with the various institutions, NGOs, because there are times when young people go to municipal institutions, sometimes when they go to other public institutions, again at other times to NGOs, these contacts have been made. The Institute of Education and Development has held preparatory meetings, meetings and trainings for hundreds of teachers involved in the organisation, who organised this community work in schools, precisely so that everyone can prepare in good time. The directions that we have defined, based on an earlier research, based on the primary aspects of the students, were set at 90% of their opinion, and so in January 2015 we did a first research, and we maped them at almost a thousand places of task, at almost a thousand schools, asking teachers, institutional leaders and students how exactly the ratio is that which the representative woman asked us to perform in the community service. Well, until the end of last year, until December last year, 73 percent of the 11th grade students have already passed 21 hours of community service, and a good part of them has completed 50 hours, so they have completed the entire period. So about three quarters of young people are doing well on time, they are not behind, but they are expected to be able to perform this 50 - hour service until graduation. It is obviously helpful that this can be achieved not only during a period of diligence but also during the summer period, so all 12 months are available. What were the most popular? Eighty percent of young people participated in joint sport and leisure activities with disaster prevention, older people, kindergartens and children, in organising, organising, conducting, and volunteering programmes for health care, crime and accident prevention. In the second round there was the social and charitable community service, and finally the community service in the natural and environmental schools. So these were the most popular activities. Schools' pedagogical programme now includes these important tasks related to community service. And if I have to answer what Mrs President asked me where the fastest way to organise this was, where are they best: in non-state schools, in vocational secondary schools and in schools with a number of under 100 students, but still almost two thirds of them are valued for their activities. And even during the summer period, there are many possibilities, the now running. In the event of action, the "Tourist Police" programme, the "Honour for the Years," security for the elderly, or even local environmental protection programmes, these young people can participate, and this also counts for the 50 hours. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2015-05-11-83	I was pleased to hear the answer from the Secretary of State and, of course, I accept it, because he has answered all my questions and has given me a satisfactory answer. Allow me to tell you the following in a few seconds. When we introduced the obligation of community service in the Public Education Act, there were very few, but there were a few limping voices that complained that we were making it mandatory, while we wanted to make young people do volunteer work. Well, it's a pedagogical principle that you have to get people to do what they like to do on their own. This is what high school principals and teachers report, two of them called yesterday and said that many of their students, after 50 hours of mandatory service, continue to do so because they loved this work, loved the old man they helped. Dear Members, It would be good to give a good account of many of these things in Parliament and in the country. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Róbert Sallai Benedek, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: The title (t) is " (t) '. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-05-11-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Just a year ago, I had my first interpellation to ask what would happen to the undivided joint, and it's been practically a year, unfortunately, and I have to point out in my interpellation that there has not been any real progress. At the time of the entry into force of the Land Traffic Act, there was a general measure that made it impossible to notify the owners of legitimate land use in the system of undivided commons. Until then, these owners had access to the area payment and could not do so since 2013. [[15.40]] In 2013 the MVH adopted a temporary provision: who was able to legally demonstrate that he was using his territory under a title, had a land lease contract or was entitled to property, received this benefit; then this option was no longer available last year. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, as I have said in my interpellation question, what is preventing FM from doing so in line with the 2013 practice, until the government fulfils its obligation to measure all the undivided commons - with the same facilitation the owners have access to. I would very much ask the Secretary of State not to say that you can claim an undivided joint right now, because there are a lot of undivided commons where there are hundreds of owners, and the provisions of the Land Traffic Act cannot be kept in such a way that all owners have the consent of the Land Use Reporter. This could be solved by a simple legislative provision, only by intent until the government distributes the undivided commons. There was a previous four - year promise to do so, and now in the last year it has been again to speed up this process. Obviously, it should be seen that the freaks of a misplaced system change are the freaks of these undivided commons as a real hungaricum, and the elimination of these is not the responsibility of the owners, nor is it their fault that this problem is not solved. This is why the FM should side with these farmers and create the possibility that, until FM or the bodies to do so, all the undivided commons where the applicant was, will measure the undivided common property, it will provide the facilitation that the MVH provided in 2013. This week, on Friday, farmers must apply for area payments in Hungary. Unfortunately, there are thousands of owners who fall away from about 70 thousand forints per hectare because they cannot report the use of the area. The number of people whose land lease contract has expired is increasing, and the FM could handle this without further ado. I ask the Secretary of State whether there is a chance that there will be an intention, unlike the current practice, to facilitate those who can present their ownership or land use contracts to the MVH. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-11-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary, representing the Ministry of Agriculture.
u2015-05-11-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, I must say to you that there is not only a chance, but also a real situation, that no farmer can be harmed and left behind because he is farming in an undivided common area. Allow me to lead you down the line that I can prove my point. The government did not fail, but by any means possible it helps producers to access the area payment, of course also farmers in undivided common-owned land. It is wrong to conclude that the change in legislation has made it impossible to legally declare the use of undivided common-owned plots of land. There has always been a legal background, since previously the farmers concerned had to act according to the rules of the Civil Code, and now under the new rules laid down in the Act on the Transition Measures of the Land Traffic Act, which contains transitional rules. In order to establish good practice, details of the legal procedure were recorded, which would have been followed under the Civil Code anyway. With the emergence of the detailed rules, the conclusion of an ex ante agreement in order to ensure the legality of land use, both in terms of land use and in terms of the transfer of rights of use to third parties, is becoming increasingly widespread in practice. I also stress that although the agreement in the order of use must be complete, the regulation is subject to the range of unattainable and unresponsive owners and insecure persons. It therefore provides that the consent of the above persons to the offer of an agreement on use should be deemed to be granted by virtue of the law. In view of all this, it cannot be claimed that the legal reporting of land use is impossible. Prior proof of legitimate land use is not a condition for applying for the single area payment as it should be presumed from 2014. The customer's land use rights may be examined by the MVH, and the claimant of the aid may be required to verify them if a check is carried out or if there is doubt as to the legality of the land, because several customers need support at the same time for the same land. In this case, the claimant may demonstrate the legality of land use in the manner laid down by law. In addition to registration in the land use register, this may be done in several other ways, for example, in the case of a family-owned customer with an agreement on the establishment of a family-run holding, a lease contract or other evidence of use for those who use undivided common-owned land or whose use on that land has not been registered in the land-use register for reasons other than its own fault. The elimination of undivided joint ownership is decades of failure of previous governments, as my fellow Member has mentioned, but the process in this government cycle is greatly accelerated, as the programme for measuring share ownership affects 970 thousand hectares, 64 thousand parts of land and more than 300 thousand owners. In the framework of this, budget support is available in 2015, i.e. some HUF 4.5 billion, which exceeds the amount previously allocated at any time. My dear fellow Member asked what to do for those whose application date expires this weekend. Feel free to submit it, and you can confidently trust that you will receive this support completely legally and completely along the lines that I have listed here. I ask my fellow Member to accept my professional response. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-89	The information was so friendly and wide that I would be happy to accept that if I didn't have the MVH decision on my computer for six or seven farmers who were denied the area claim on the basis of the same criteria last year, because they said that if they didn't have the land use registration for their own property, they couldn't have it. So I'd love to accept it, but the ground office practice is different, and if they refuse, the MVH won't accept it. Now, at the moment, when the Prime Minister's Office intervenes in this procedure in a second instance procedure - I can also show the Secretary of State a second-degree decision, unfortunately, unlike your knowledge, the practice is different as this legislation is applied. In the current practice, the MVH consistently rejects these requests, and I can set a number of examples. That's why I can't accept the answer.
u2015-05-11-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Pál Völner and Dénes Galambos, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What is the result of the boom in construction, and how does this affect Hungarian businesses? It's an address. Mr Pál Völner has the floor. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Then it's up to Congressman Dénes Pigeon. First, we mention the first-ranking congressman, there was no signal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few years ago, when everyone in the middle of the economic crisis was talking about the low point in construction, few people would have thought or perhaps just hoped that today we could talk about the recovery of this sector. According to the latest data from KSH, in February, construction production was 5.1 percent higher than a year earlier. The increase is 4.8 percent in the main group of buildings and 5.9 percent in other structures. The production of both main construction groups increased by 4.8 percent for buildings and 5.9 percent for other structures. The construction of other structures was due, inter alia, to road construction, railway renovation and public works in the territory of the country. This will continue: the state plans to invest in the construction sector in the order of approximately HUF 100 billion in 2016. Among the construction sectors, production in the building sector increased by 1.8 percent and other constructions by 4.7 percent. [[15.50]] The special engineering sector, which accounts for more than 40 percent of construction production, has increased by 7.2 percent. After the dramatic decline, the number of building permits issued increased by 28 percent, which is a positive trend compared to previous years. According to May 2015, 44 percent more apartment building permits were issued compared to January-February 2014. In 2014, for the first time since the crisis, the number of properties sold exceeded 100,000, and the upward trend continued in the first quarter of this year. If this happens for the rest of the year, the number of real estate sales could be between 140,000 and 150,000. The recovery in the real estate market is not independent of the fact that banks are able to lend more and more. In addition, on 1 July 2015, i.e. on 1 July 2015, the family home-building allowance will start, under which state aid will also be available to families with one child. This could also extend the recovery to smaller settlements. However, this did not happen on its own, I think, and this cannot be a coincidence, but a direct consequence of the help of foreign exchange credentials, the introduction of foreign currency credit, the improvement of the income situation, the expansion of employment and the increase in real income. In the light of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: what is the result of the boom in construction, and how does this affect Hungarian businesses? Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-93	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, During the period ahead, the government's explicit goal is economic development. In particular, construction will play a prominent role. Among the current trends in the construction sector, the increase in production, as you mentioned, remains mainly due to the construction of industrial, health and educational buildings. It is also possible to thank for the activities carried out in the development of transport infrastructure. In the housing market, the spectacular growth after low point is mainly due to a favourable credit environment and low interest rates, while helping foreign exchange lenders and improving income conditions, and the increasingly stable economy attracts real estate investors. In 2014, as you said, the shrinkage in the housing market has ended since 2009. Last year, the number of housing projects increased by 15 percent. In 2014, 8358 apartments were built in the country and 9633 building permits were issued. The figures for the first quarter of 2015 show that the trend continues. As you pointed out, we issued 44 percent more housing permits. It's 2381 pieces in total. In particular, three times as many apartments were allowed to be built in Budapest as before. 45% of all apartments are for sale and 54 percent are for private use. On the basis of the new building permits issued, a total of 1236 residential buildings are planned to be built by 34 percent. In relation to lending, it should be noted that investors or entrepreneurs can now use the growth credit scheme for housing construction if they are not intended for leasing but for resale. That wasn't the case before. It can be seen from the figures that, outside the capital city, new apartments are built primarily for their own use, in which the expansion of the housing credit market plays a major role, but the family home creation discount will support the purchase of used apartments from 1 July. In order to ensure a sustainable and sustainable growth in the construction sector, there is a need for a large increase in investment in residential construction. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Meg for a change of government!]] As a starting point, we have taken into account that, in addition to new housing constructions in the sector, the energy modernisation of buildings can be based on sustained and sustainable performance growth in the future. Honourable Congressman, In addition, the government will also aim at simplifying construction procedures in the future, reducing administrative burdens and adapting the system of public works contracts and design contests. The new public procurement bill, drawn up on the basis of EU public procurement directives, will soon be presented to Parliament, which will speed up the system of public procurement procedures. In addition, with the recovery of new housing and government modernisation efforts, construction entrepreneurs will provide the construction sector with an ever-increasing and stable stock of orders in the following year, thus creating thousands of new jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-94	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor in a one-minute time frame.
u2015-05-11-95	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Minister Mihály Varga said at the economic conference held on 5 May 2015 that the economic outlook has improved due to the boom in construction. At the conference, Minister, he stated and made it clear that this idea, which I agree with, preferred to build a new building where people trust in the future, but only if the overall economic outlook improves significantly. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Is it really written down? Is the answer written down?]] This is what has happened in Hungary in recent years, this trust has been restored to families, and I think that businesses, too. [[Dr. István Józsa: Is it typed?]] In view of this, I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2015-05-11-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked it as a question, but it also sounded different in a statement mode. In recent months, the public was shocked by the case of a nurse who said that he would never come out of his paycheck, that he worked in an intensive care unit, and that after his very responsible work there he was cleaning a second job. His story wasn't the only one, he was the only one who made the public. The main element of the story is that even though you work at work, you work more in your profession, you can't afford to work too hard, you can't pay him the overtime, you can't show him the records, and after that, let's say, after a 28-hour shift, he still has to work a second or a third job. I trust that the Secretary of State does not think, nor do I, that they have set themselves too high a standard of living, or that they may not think that this is some sort of way of life. In fact, this is about the fact that they work for nothing, even though they work overtime, they can't support their families, their families, whom they barely see. That's not what you promised. You promised a career, a wage increase, a wage program - anything, just vote for you. The nurses complain that overtime, the prescribed overtime, is not paid. Because without too much work, it would not be possible to guarantee security of supply, I would highlight that. Without overwork, there wouldn't be enough nurses in health care. When this case snapped, I asked the Minister with a written question to answer how much overtime was ordered and paid for in health care. I was told by the Minister that he didn't know that the Ministry didn't keep a record, that he didn't have to keep a record of it, and that he was only required to answer a question that he had recorded. Well, I'm not disappointed in you, especially not pleasantly. I was thinking that such a despicable, uncovering injustice, or, if you will, a case that will pervade the ministry's interest in itself. But no! If that wasn't the case, then I thought you might already think that you would look into it and draw up a statement. I have submitted this question, and you have answered me with proper authority pride and the letter of the law: you are not obliged to keep a record, and therefore you are not registered. [[16.00]] I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if that's okay. Is it okay that you don't keep track of this, that the nurses will take solidarity with each other in black, for each other, for patients, for health care, for 28 hours, and then go somewhere to clean, bake flames, or who knows where else to live? In health care, Mr. Secretary, you owe everyone. They owe to everyone they can, to suppliers, to utilities, to state, but to themselves [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They owe me one more face. Will such a statement be made? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If you're not preparing, why don't you prepare and pay the overtime? Thank you for your patience.
u2015-05-11-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Gábor Zombor responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In answer to your question or interpellation, I can tell you the following. I have called for a sectoral discussion on issues relating to overwork in order to find out exactly what the truth is on this issue, because it is highly contradictory, and as you have said, if that is so, the picture shows very depressing situations. At this sector consultation, the question of whether it is true that the institutions do not pay overtime, is clearly said by stakeholders, i.e. interest representatives and organisations bringing together various nurses, that it is not true, that the institutions pay overtime, only because of a legal provision contained in the Labour Code, this is paid in a six-month working time frame as a procedure, and therefore have to wait several months to pay overtime or extra shifts, the actual payment to nurses. By the way, we measured the scale: in 2014 it was 3 million hours, and the payment was 4 billion forints. At the next meeting, which took place today, we have already worked on the solution together with the interest representatives. We agreed that as of 1 June, it would be recorded on the basis of a uniform procedure in a country and in all hospitals, paying all the overwork that would be paid as quickly as possible, with the salary of the month following the month concerned, and thus not have to wait for the payment of the rightful salary. [[Dr. István Józsa: It was worth asking!]] In this connection, I would also like to say that it is, of course, worth asking, but I am not sure that this question is best for you, because at this meeting we also have a second set of statistics on how the average earnings of healthcare workers have evolved compared to the average earnings of the national economy. We have seen that between 2005 and 2008 it followed the growth of average income in the national economy, and after 2008 there was a steep decline, resulting in a major difference. This was approached in two steps in 2012 at some level, which was lost between 2008 and 2010, which could be supplemented by another HUF 15 billion in next year. If a nurse says that or asks what you're asking, then she's absolutely right, absolutely right, but I would like to encourage you to be much more modest in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-11-100	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-101	See, Mr. Secretary, that's the problem. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] The beginning of what he said could have even been understood, and I would have said that it was worth asking, it was worth raising problems, because if you didn't answer a news report, you wouldn't be responding to an interpellation, but of course it's encoded in you, too, that you can end up with a good eight-year-old. Secretary of State, they've been ruling for five years. They've been steering for five years! You're coordinating, coordinating, forming a committee, and you're in such a bad self-image that you're still in charge of this health care, whatever you can do. No! There are very, very committed professionals here who do their job, there are highly eviscerated suppliers who owe a lot of money to you, and there are very impatient patients, Mr. Secretary of State. That's why I can't accept your answer. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-11-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. But doesn't the KLIK reduce the differences? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-05-11-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the most important reasons for legitimacy of the public reservation of schools was that this measure would reduce the difference between the quality of the institutions, which is also very high in international comparison in our country. At the same time, it remains possible for municipalities to provide additional services to their children through the resources and infrastructure available to them. In fact, what has been achieved is that the municipalities have been humiliated, but the differences have not been reduced. All this has been said at the conference organised by the Institute of Public Education and Development, which means that you are aware of the failure. The expert invited by you also said that the operation of the KLIK is not uniform, so much depends on the leadership attitude of the district, and therefore the territorial difference remains in this respect, but it is only now decided by the state. In addition, the smoothness of administration has undoubtedly become worse, and besides the daily operating difficulties, for example, textbook teachers' money from September last year has not yet arrived everywhere. The lack of resources was therefore not solved by the state reservation, and even by filling KLIK with tens of billions of forints during the year, because the money planned for the whole year was run out already in August. But the narrowness of money also characterizes the way in which everyday physical education is introduced. Of course, Jobbik agrees with the aim and we are committed to improving the movement culture of children and improving their health, but during my travels I find that in the vast majority of schools, the solution of daily physical education under normal conditions is among the three biggest problems. Unfortunately, the development of facilities did not prevent the introduction of the measure, and although an impact assessment was carried out, the government did not care that this measure would create potentially dangerous situations. At the same time, we do not know when we will be able to develop the gymnasiums and schools available to students to a level that provides them with cultural conditions for their daily physical activity. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State why they expect an increase in the quality of education if the balance of differences has not been established by OFI. What are they changing to the system? Are they willing to devote sufficient resources to the development of school sports facilities? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the government's aim, with the aim of maintaining state reserves, was not to depend on the solvency, tax capacity and current budgetary position of local authorities, on the level of education-educational work that the school can take, not on the efficiency of collecting municipal taxes, on the level of primary or secondary education and education of the children living in the local settlement, but on the state, wherever it comes, in Eastern Hungary or Western Hungary, in small settlements or in large settlements, in richer or poorer settlements, guaranteeing the necessary amounts for the school's operation and payment of teachers everywhere. [[16.10]] It should not happen that in some places teachers do not pay their wages, or that teachers migrate because they see their status more safely in one settlement than they do in the other. At the same time, of course, we have also launched the development of teachers' wages, as it was also important for young people with good skills to choose the teaching career; and those who are good teachers should stay on the teaching field and not find other jobs for themselves. As you know, teachers' salaries have increased by 30-40 percent in the last three years; only last year was more than HUF 120 billion plus what the budget has spent on teachers' salary increases beyond previous years, and this year it is another HUF 30 billion item. For this reason, the Education Office provides a uniform set of professional requirements for teachers' professional services everywhere, and the KLIK itself performs purely maintenance tasks. There is no doubt that, after the launch, it was necessary to make a change in the KLIK's system over the last year, because there was a lot of things centralized, and we thought it would be better to carry out some of these centralised tasks at county or district level, i.e. district level. For this reason, the county central district performs the maintenance task for each of the more specialised institutions, and part of the functional tasks were transferred to the district district district. Obviously, there are institutions where the maintenance manager is double, but there are institutions where the CLIK already provides both. Therefore, the central organisation system has reduced its tasks, has a controlling, controlling and strategic role now only the CLIK, and much more decisions are made on the ground. For this reason, we have also approved certain institutional frameworks, which are decided by the heads of institutions, as clearly defined in the internal governance tool of the CLIK. They receive their own treasury card, precisely so that they can supply everyday purchases on the spot, and for administrative reasons no procurement of any kind should be delayed. The question of daily physical education was the second part of what the congresswoman said. We are introducing this in an ascending system because we know that there is a need for new facilities, but at the same time we could have decided not to introduce this measure, only when there is a sufficient number of swimming pools in every school district, a sufficient number of gymnasiums at the first moment, but we thought it would be much better if we introduced everyday physical education gradually - that is what everyone needs. I think that there is no doubt that, in addition to the current way of life - which makes them more attached to a table, a computer, or a variety of electronic devices - it is even more necessary to attend a daily physical education class because of their spiritual freshness, because of their healthy lifestyle. Obviously, this can only be done by building institutions. At the first stage, we decided on the construction of three gymnasiums, 14 A, 7 B and 1 C gymnasiums. Thus, we spend 3 billion HUF on gymnasiums, 3 billion HUF on school schools to build them; year after year, so this framework is available last year and this year as well. We hope that more and more gymnasiums and more schools will be built throughout Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-106	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Congresswoman, I'm asking if you'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-107	Dear Secretary of State, In terms of differences, you have not answered my question at all. Local governments no longer have the power to interfere with the school's life, but they continue to support the school, depending on their financial situation, or they cannot support it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've never supported it before!]] So, in this sense, this system failed, and the differences with the creation of the CLIK cannot be substantially reduced. As regards teachers' salaries, the Secretary of State forgot to say that the teachers' salaries were separated from the minimum wage at the time, so that their value is not guaranteed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: She grows every year!]] Although earlier it was promised that the minimum wage would increase teachers' salaries every January. That's not gonna happen now. As regards daily physical education, it should be borne in mind that this measure has led, for example, to situations where theoretical physical education was introduced, Mr. Secretary of State, that is to say, children watch sports events in different schools or study sports history; that was not the aim. The right conditions should be ensured. I can't accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-108	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 110 yes, 32 votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-11-109	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, In meeting with the mayors of several small municipalities, I would like to draw attention to the fact that small settlements are balancing on the limits of insolvency. While on one side they become more and less mobile, on the other side they have to bear more and more burdens. This government has a heavy responsibility. In recent years, the funding of municipalities has been transformed by hijacking a significant proportion of their local tax revenues, centralising the remaining 8 percent of personal income tax and 60% of the tax on motor vehicles, which previously allowed the municipalities to manage themselves. About 150 billion forints were put into the budget. Although some tasks have been taken over from local authorities, such as the maintenance of schools, much more than the costs of this withdrawal. The project funding introduced, which was promised to fully cover the mandatory tasks, is bleeding from a thousand wounds. The underfunding of the tasks required for the municipalities remains, the lack of operation remains encoded in the system, and more and more extra space is placed in the neck of the municipalities. The cost of transporting household waste must be paid by the municipalities, social assistance has landed at their place, free children's meals are not covered. The salaries of mayors and sub-Mayors must also be managed by the municipalities, and at that time we have not yet talked about the expenditure related to the operation and medical care of the settlement. On top of all this, the government has removed the disadvantaged status of several low-income small settlements on the grounds that unemployment rates have improved due to public work. Now these settlements can apply for even less resources; not to mention the fact that the government has reduced the allocation of small town leaders, so most mayors have to deal with the impossible situation for a few tens of thousands of HUF. Obviously, this system is unsustainable. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to know whether these problems will be addressed in the budget next year and when they will end the underfunding of municipalities. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-11-110	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The funding of municipalities, the budgetary situation of municipalities is practically the formation of municipalities, the theme of politics since 1990, and it can be said that since 1990 the situation of municipalities has practically deteriorated with minor interruptions. There have been interruptions, and there have been times when municipalities have received greater assistance during a period of time. Here I could highlight the period of the 2000s, when the compensation for the privatisation of the gas utility assets taken from the municipalities was finally received by the municipalities, and they could start to develop on a large scale, using freely available development resources. Or, in the same way, the Orbán government is responsible for the long-term unpaid overtime payments of firefighters, which the municipalities have received, and they were able to settle their debts, and by 2010, we came to the point that the municipal system had become virtually unfunded in its financing structure; both the development and the conditions of operation were set aside. This is why the government and Parliament have decided that the lending for operational purposes in the municipalities must be stopped and a situation must be created where the municipalities are able to manage without borrowing for operational purposes. This required the State to take over municipal loans. [[16.20]] I think that the capital injection of nearly HUF 1400 billion that the municipalities received was a very important step, both in retrospect, to create a lot of open questions and to create development and operational opportunities for the next period. Local governments that have not benefited from credit consolidation have been given the opportunity to obtain freely available development resources each year for these four years. One part of the transformation of municipal funding was the creation of task funding, and indeed a task grouping has been carried out, which has enabled the functioning of municipalities to be preserved. By the way, the situation has improved significantly in the small settlements mentioned by you, since by setting up a system of set-off for smaller settlements and small-tax settlements, the costs necessary for their operation have been much greater than or much higher than the real needs, the needs for their real operation. In most of the questions you have mentioned, I would particularly mention child care or social assistance. The settlements under the tax power of HUF 32 thousand - and small settlements are almost exclusively among them - do receive state aid, and even the settlements with a tax power of less than HUF 18 thousand received at least as much or more resources for social assistance as in the previous system, since - we have repeatedly said that - the aim of the transformation of social assistance is not to withdraw money from local governments or save money on social assistance, but was to develop a new approach, an incentive for work. So there was no such withdrawal from social assistance. In the case of child care, too, it can be said that the necessary support, the resources have been allocated to the municipalities, and that the change due from the autumn, according to which children will be provided free of charge from a small age, includes the necessary resources. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-112	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-113	I cannot accept Mr. Secretary's reply. Mr. Secretary, you were talking about the past, and you weren't talking about what's going on and what's going on. Simple mathematics: they receive mandatory tasks from the municipalities and do not receive enough resources. Here's the thing. This situation must be dealt with. We have heard from Minister Mihály Varga today that GDP will be above 3 percent, the economy will flourish, soaring. We believe that this would also lead to the fact that if the municipalities were given a mandatory task, the government would ensure that it was covered. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-114	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister:, Why do the Miskolcs not pay less for district heating? It's an address. Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2015-05-11-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Miskolc, the socialist city leadership placed great emphasis on the development of renewable energy sources. In this context, the city and its business partners launched a geothermal energy project. Hungary and the region's largest geothermal heat recovery system were finally delivered in May 2013, providing more than 26 thousand Miskolc households and more than 100 institutions, foil tents and industrial plants with environmentally friendly heat. In March 2015, the geothermal project in Miskolc reached 1 million gigajoule heat sales from geothermal energy production in Miskolc. The local heat supplier, MIHŐ Kft. uniquely in the country, it uses four different types of renewable energy in the district heating system: solar collector energy, biogas, biomass and to the most significant extent geothermal energy. All these projects were also launched under the socialist city leadership. It is also unique in Europe that more than 40 percent of the required heat in Miskolc is produced by using renewable energy sources with the involvement of geothermal energy. In addition to environmentally friendly thinking, the heat produced in this way is much cheaper than the heat produced by fossil fuels. Unfortunately, however, this does not appear in the district heating account of the Miskolcs. Why? Because the price of district heating is set by a ministerial decree, but unfortunately, the ministerial decree does not take into account the fact that the production of electricity for district heating is much cheaper in Miskolc, so that district heating cannot be cheaper for the Miskolcs. In addition, due to the ministerial decree, MIHŐ Kft. has to buy heat generated by geothermal energy at a higher price. Dear Secretary of State, When will cheaper geothermal energy prevail in the cost of district heating in Miskolc? When will the district heat be cheaper for the Miskolcs? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-11-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Aradszki responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government has helped all households noticeably by reducing the consumer prices of electricity, gas and district heating in a uniform manner, without band boundaries, in several steps. As a result of this reduction, families first experienced that they were not growing, but were reducing their burden, and this was felt not only by the Miskolcs, but also by district heating consumers living in all the settlements of the country. The savings of district heating customers are different due to different district heating prices per settlement, which is the same in scale as the saving of natural gas consumers, which is 55 thousand forints per year for an average retail consumer. In recent years, we have taken a number of measures in the interests of district heating consumers. The first of these was the restructuring of district heating regulation in 2014. The former municipal pricing was replaced by central price regulation, which led the government to stop the increase in the retail end-consumer prices of district heating and natural gas. Thanks to this decision and the reduction of costs, consumers have saved over a thousand billion forints in recent years. Under the new central authority price regulation, we introduced a compensation scheme that replaced the former wasteful electricity aid. We have fixed the fee structure applied in the settlements, which is reviewed annually by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office as a price preparation authority on the basis of a detailed methodology. The Office shall then propose the justified cost-based producer heat prices to be applied between heat producers and district heating service providers and the final consumer prices between consumers and district heating service providers. Official price regulation shall ensure that the charges applied include only justified costs incurred for the supply of consumers. It is the task of the Office to verify this, which, on the basis of a strict methodology, recognises only one low return on capital in fees, in addition to the cost deemed justified. According to the main rule of the methodology applied by the Office, in line with the government's expectations of reducing overhead costs and the creation of a non-profit public service, only 2 percent of the return on capital is recognised in the charges by the recognised return on Miskolc for the purpose of using renewable energy sources, i.e. in order to support a geothermal heating plant in Miskolc, of 4.5 percent. The geothermal heating plant only partially covers the heat needs of the city of Miskolc. The specific compensatory claim of the district heating service in Miskolc is significantly higher than the national average even taking into account the favourable production costs of the geothermal heating plant. In Hungarian: the district heating service in Miskolc receives significantly more support than the national average. But let's stick to the facts and look back for a moment, honourable Member. If we compare the fees under your city's management, if we compare the fees for 2009. We compare current and valid district heating charges with the current district heating charges, and we can conclude that now, on 11 May 2015, the Miskolcs will reach district heating at around 26 percent cheaper than on 1 January 2009. These data are public, accessible everywhere. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2015-05-11-118	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-05-11-119	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not at liberty to accept your answer. I have more reasons. First of all, what you said about our city's management, obviously at that time, there was a 5-percent tax cycle of district heat, so it was a decrease in the first place, and otherwise the basic fee also dropped significantly, but obviously it doesn't even talk about it. It also does not mention that about one third of the apartments have been renewed in the context of energy efficiency, since they could participate in such a proposal. You have stopped these applications, so you have not continued this work. Experts believe that there could be a further decrease in district heat prices in Miskolc, about 20 percent, if the benefits of geothermal power, the full benefits of its inexpensiveness, could be obtained by the Miskolcias. However, your legislation, your background, prevents this. So that's why district heat is more expensive for the Miskolc today. That's why I can't accept your answer. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-11-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to 38, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Czomba gave his reply to the interpellation of Vice-President Tamás Sneider, because of the indecision of the House. Pursuant to the relevant house rules, the sitting shall continue with the discussion of the next item on the agenda. If the chair of the sitting later determines the quorum of the Parliament, the decision may be returned to the same meeting. So, Honourable Parliament, under the relevant regulations, I now put you to the vote once again. [[Ancient Novak: But they didn't hear the answer.]] I would like to put the Secretary of State's reply to the vote once again. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: How do you know what you're voting on?]] Who accepts the reply of Secretary of State Sándor Czomba, please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 20 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It's 16:33, and we're going to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally. [[Anita Herring: Yes, I accept.]] Yes, I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-11-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, It was almost a year ago when the government submitted pretense measures to solve the problems of foreign exchange lenders. Antal Rogán then said that justice must be done. Well, you didn't really make it this time. Today, most of the accounts have been received by hopeful credentials, and a sobering letter has come. The government and the pro-government politicians have fooled those who want to believe. And you've been saying everywhere that an average currency-loaner will be reduced by 25 to 30 percent. Now, let's look at the facts of an average foreign exchange credit side. In July 2008, the repayment of a ten-year Swiss franc car loan to a Hungarian family was 36 thousand forints available at that time; in April 2015 it was almost 110 thousand forints. According to the settlement letter, this instalment will now be reduced by HUF 233 per month. According to the bank, this amount is unfairly liquidated. You heard me, Mr. Secretary. According to your unorthodox mathematics, 25-30 percent of 110,000 HUF is 233 HUF. This way, Suzuki purchased the loan will cost approximately HUF 10 million at the end of the term. Yeah, well, now the government's started buying banks, and it's not worth ruining his own business. That's why the Secretary of State said the problem was solved. It's just, sir, not the authentic ones, that's the problem. Do you think they should settle for what they've been given? Of course, you are in circles where your friends have been reimbursed at a reduced rate with a wide range of family cooperation and friendly loans. You know, this isn't an average foreign exchange loan family. They couldn't do that. Mr. Secretary. You fooled people and tricked them. You know, Secretary of State, today in the country, if you want to wish evil to your neighbor, you're telling the government to save you. Well, that's what the Feds feel today. Now you're washing your hands? Is that the solution, Mr. Secretary? [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-11-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who will answer the immediate question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and One thing is certain, the Fidesz government and the pro-government politicians didn't fool anyone. Why don't you think about what I'm going to tell you about who fooled the Hungarian people? Tell me how it exists that, under the administration of your party, nearly two million people have been indebted to foreign currency. How is it that Hungary is the only country in Europe where people could do this, where people have been made, i.e. have taken credit with them? Which other country is where the government let people take that risk? Where they were not warned that the credit received in the foreign currency had not only interest, which had been unilaterally modified by the banks, and that somewhere in the fine-letter text it was included, but which was not included in this contract, that it had an exchange-rate risk. And they forgot to inform people about this exchange rate risk. Now, the man who did this is the government of your party, he's the one who cheated people. He cheated nearly two million people. When it was established in 2010, the Fidesz government did not say that the state or the government would pay for the people, but said that it would lead out of the problem these very, many Hungarian families, and that it would legally do what can be done. According to the Curia's decision, the exchange rate risk lies with the clients, the counterparties who took the loan and spent it. The risk of the exchange rate gap and the unilateral interest rate increases are borne by the banks. These were the basis for the decisions that were made, and these were the basis for helping people. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-124	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-125	Thank you very much. It's awfully boring to hear them pointing backwards. It's terribly boring. The problem is that people feel that their daily livelihoods have been reduced by nothing. You know, they had two-thirds authority when you could have solved this problem. You didn't solve it, but now you've created a much more difficult situation for the foreign exchange credencers. People hoped they'd do something themselves, but there's only one thing they can see, it's that it's important to pay their own friends, so that people who have that kind of money can pay off at 180 forints. Just, you know, an average foreign exchange loaner who was promised to have a 25-percent down payment, not the one who was able to pay back at that time at 180 forints. You have deceived your voters. Go home and look them in the eye when you can't pay for it at the end of the month. You thought you'd have a chance to make your life a little easier, but you tricked them and tricked them, Mr. Secretary of State. Try to make that clear with your conscience. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-11-126	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-127	Mr. President, thank you. Dear Parliament, We heard it was boring for the MSZP to listen to what they did to the country. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And others.]] If it's boring, Congresswoman, if it's not boring, it's still real. The MSZP dragged the country and nearly two million people into borrowing foreign currency loans. [[Anita Heringes: People have been deceived, Mr. Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell.]] To take out unfunded loans for travel, car leasing. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Where's the 25 percent drop?]] [[16.40]] The Fidesz government helped with that. The Fidesz government has promised that we will help and lead these families out of foreign exchange loans. [[Anita Herring: Is this it?]] That's the promise we made. You make promises, you make promises that the state will come and pay for everyone. A responsible government can't do that. The responsible government should have been you. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] when not allowed, as in other countries, for example in Poland or Croatia, a fraction of people were admitted to such borrowing. You take responsibility for cheating people. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Where's 25 percent? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What has changed?" It's an address. Because of his urgent public mission, Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-05-11-129	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-130	In this case, Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. With the money of paralympics, the chairman of the committee paid his credit on the proposal of Tamás Deutsch. Is there more down there? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-05-11-131	Mr President, although there is a Secretary of State for Sport under the auspices of the EMMI, I do not know why he does not answer, but I do accept Mr Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-132	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-05-11-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, although I've had a lot of time. There are athletes, Mr. Secretary of State, in the Paralympic Alliance, who are in a very difficult situation. Allow me to quote Zsolt Gömöri, President of the Paralympic Committee, who said:. There are athletes who only get adequate food from the training camp, because they can eat a bun in Paris or a couple of sausages once a day with the unappreciably low monthly support. There are some paratroopers who are not forced to work 8-10 hours in addition to daily training, not for a living, but for survival. '"' said Zsolt Gömöri. And that's true, because just one example, Nikolett Szabó is a chess champion, who is almost completely blind, works two shifts in a factory for 70,000 forints a month, and goes to trainings next to him. That is why the news was striking that Tamás Deutsch, Vice-President of the Paralympic Committee, Zsolt Gömöri, Chairman of the Paralympic Committee, received 3 million forints of non-refundable funding from the Paralympic Association to pay his own repayment. The two gentlemen said it was legal and ethical. I don't think it's ethical. I think it's disgusting. Morally, there is nothing lower when money is taken from disabled athletes, from people who have to make 200-300 percent in order to succeed, say, in the Paralympics of Hungary. I ask you, Mr. Secretary, do you also condemn and consider the actions of Tamás Deutsch and Zsolt Gömöri to be morally unacceptable? If you condemn it, what do you intend to do to ensure that Tamás Deutsch, Zsolt Gömöri and the Presidency resign with immediate effect and give up their seat in the Paralympic Committee to people who will really fight for parasportsians in the coming period? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-134	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We obviously agree in that part that the performance of paralympics is enormous and superhuman, and it is the responsibility of the Hungarian State to create the necessary resources for this. However, you know, honourable Member, that since 2012, the state has been able to provide funding to these organisations for this very important task in a completely different funding system, and thus help as many athletes as possible to achieve these beautiful results that we see, because it is now good that we can support Hungarian competitors not only in the regular Olympic Games but also in the Paralympic Games. Since 1 January 2012, however, the Hungarian Olympic Committee has been operating as a parliament of Hungarian sports, fully autonomous, and the Hungarian Paralympic Committee also has exclusive rights in connection with the Paralympic movement and Paralympic preparation. Thus, the Hungarian State has a very long list of tasks to finance through the EMMI, this goes up to a-r) in the law, and I would not read this to you now, but Hungary performs this task through the Hungarian Olympic Committee. [[Dóra Dúró: Answer the question!]] We have tried to do this as much as possible, because if we look at how much the state has spent on disabled sports, [[Dóra Dúró: Answer the question asked.]] then, while it was HUF 230 million in 2012, it increased to HUF 280 million in 2013, to HUF 327 million in 2014 [[Now let's hear the answer.]] In 2015, the state aid we were able to provide was HUF 513 million. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] In recent days, indeed, Congressman has also held a press conference, several articles have started, I think, after an anonymous letter, but at the same time there is the procedure of the Paralympic Commission, which is completely independent, as is the support. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The procedure is also from the government, and will be investigated by the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee.
u2015-05-11-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the right to a rejoinder, Mr. Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-137	Mr. Secretary, don't bullshit me. I asked a simple question: do you, as a KDNP representative, consider it compatible with the Christian moral spirit to take money from injured people in need? That's what happened here. That answer, as you said, is no different from what the MOB represents with regard to Paralympic athletes. Allow me to quote Erik Siklósi, director of marketing and communication at the MOB, who says:. Many sportsmen with disabilities are not seeking to improve the quality of life, but it is difficult to compare the performance of the Olympics and Paralympics. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is simply outrageous how you deal with this whole issue, it is outrageous how you deal with these injured people and discriminate against them! Tell me, Secretary of State, once again, do you agree that on the proposal of Tamás Deutsch, Zsolt Gömöri spent 3 million forints on himself, paying off these people's money? Yes or no? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-138	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The answer is simple.]]
u2015-05-11-139	Thank you very much. I know that the rule of law is not a strong force for Jobbik, which is why I draw your attention to the fact that this kind of autonomous body was created, that this organisation has a supervisory board to decide these issues, and that Parliament is not responsible for deciding these questions. [[György Szilágyi: Yes or no?]] It is not here that disciplinary negotiations must be conducted, but in this committee that it must be decided whether this was correct, ethical or not, whether it is due to a disciplinary offence or not. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP. The president's ringing the bell. György Szilágyi: Do you condemn him or not?]] [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] What could have been done here in Parliament, Congressman, is that you support these increases in support. [[György Szilágyi: Do you condemn him or not?]] You neither supported that from 230 million to 280 million [[The president's ringing the bell.]] increase the aid or increase it from 280 to 327 million [[György Szilágyi: Do you condemn him or not? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] - I see that Jobbik's style has not changed, Congressman - nor has it changed from 327 million to 513 million. [[György Szilágyi: Do you condemn him or not? Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] One thing we know for sure: Jobbik did not support the use of HUF 513 million for disabled sports anymore. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[György Szilágyi: Do you condemn him or not?]] You neither supported the fact that from 230 million to 280 million (the president bell rings) raise the funding from 280 to 327 million (György Szilágyi: Do you condemn it or not? - Noise. - The president's ringing. - I see that Jobbik's style has not changed, Congressman - nor has it changed from 327 million to 513 million. (György Szilágyi: Do you condemn him or not? - Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) One thing we know for sure: Jobbik did not support the use of HUF 513 million for disabled sports anymore. (The President indicated the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. ) You did not support this (György Szilágyi: Do you condemn it or not?) More than doubled by the government. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's not a state of law, it's a banana republic! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-140	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply and ask my fellow Members to follow the parliamentary form. [[Bence, this is for you.]] Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the value of human resources to the government? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-11-141	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, Once again, there was no decision on social pay. The government was supposed to decide at last Wednesday's government meeting on the 15 billion HUF wage arrangement that the social secretary of state has been hovering for months. For six months, we have been hearing from Mr Czibere, State Secretary, that the sectoral wage arrangement will take place from July, and, if all is true, the new social career will take effect from January next year. It was not the first time that this issue was on the agenda of a government meeting, but it was thrown back every time, even though the social sphere's wage situation was catastrophic. Here the average wage is the lowest, three-quarters of 93,000 people working in crèches, child protection, elderly care, disability care and social work earn under the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. [[16.50]] Net 70-80,000 forints are brought home while doing irreplaceable work. Without exaggeration, we can say that the country's future is not limited, for example, to what kind of nursery care is, under what circumstances and under what financial respect the young children are working. Since 2013, social workers have been bullied with wage management. As a kind of time delay, a sectoral wage supplement has been granted since 2014, but on average it is only HUF 5400 net, which still keeps wages below the minimum wage. The salary arrangement cannot be postponed any longer. According to the EMMI statement after the government meeting, there are significant reserves in the budget for next year, which will be used as far as possible to address this problem. We ask you to give a clear answer to the question: will there be a social wage arrangement this year or not? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-11-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, We fully agree that nearly 100,000 people working in the social sphere are doing a job whose reputation is very low in the wages they receive every month. Therefore, after the economic turnaround took place in Hungary in 2013, and although teachers were the first to receive a career and a higher wage increase, however, we have tried to help the many times in the social sphere with a completely new form of sectoral wage replacement. These people really don't belong to the best looking category, but the work they do is extremely trying. There is obviously a difference of opinion in numbers, but it can be up to 12 thousand forints that someone brings home as a sectoral allowance. This was not only included in the budget in 2014, it is also included in this year's budget, and obviously it must be part of the social sector's incomes in order to receive this additional benefit. At the same time, two aspects are taken into account by the government, since it has dealt with this issue several times, and certainly will, because a very important part is the issue of wages for workers in the social sphere. One is that we obviously only want to raise wages from real economic performance and not from credit. So we did with the teachers, so we did with health workers, so we did with law enforcement workers, and so we will do with government officials. The second is that each type of career must be developed in parallel with a kind of structural transformation of the sector. This can obviously lead to a change in the maintenance structure in the current categories, in any case also in the different training and further training systems. Overall, the government would like to see these, and then know about this sector, this wage increase, this career decision. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-144	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-145	Dear Secretary of State, I don't understand your politics and communication. Minister Mihály Varga comes in before the agenda and says that the Hungarian economy is soaring. A few hours later, the Secretary of State stands up from the Ministry and says, if I understand correctly, that there will be no wage arrangements this year. Dear Secretary of State, For two years, these people have been fighting for wages, decent conditions. The government did not accept the independent social pay table either at the end of April or now on 6 May. If you are so unaware of the situation among people, then go up to the page on Facebook called "The Social Selfies," where those involved started an Internet campaign to pull themselves out of the pit. Social workers, social workers, nurses, and daycare workers stand there with a piece of paper in their hands and write on how many years of employment their net wages are and exactly what their jobs are. I'll give you an example: after 9 years, for a net of 93,000, the caretaker stands there, after 37 years of employment, the nurse stands there with a net wage of HUF 108 800, and after 33 years of work the caregiver gets 102,000. What do you have to say to these people, Mr. Secretary?
u2015-05-11-146	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In order to improve the situation of these people, we introduced the sectoral pay gap in 2014. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not a raise!]] This is why they received the additional application in 2015. To a very small extent, but obviously, the reduction in personal income tax also slightly increases, slightly, but increases the benefits of these people. We will strive to offer them, as soon as possible, a career similar to that offered to teachers, or we managed to develop wages for health care workers. Obviously, we can take these steps gradually, as I said to you, based on real economic performance, but we fully acknowledge the performance of these people. Several times they go to our ministry, there are multiple conciliation negotiations in the social secretary-generalship, several rounds, these negotiations are taking place in two directions with representatives of the sectors and individual graduates, even with the extension of the pedagogical careers, we have already been able to offer a small part of the people working in this sphere, from this year onwards, higher wages. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-148	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question on the title of "Residential Energy Efficiency Tender." The Minister appointed Mr Zsolt Szabó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Gábor Varga: Yes.]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Currently 70 percent of Hungary's real estate stock, i.e. about 3 million properties, is in an energyally inadequate state. The government would like to modernise most of this, so from the autumn of 2014 it launched, in several steps, a large-scale public energy efficiency tender for complex development aimed at the energy modernisation of about 20 thousand homes. The budget of the tender is HUF 10 billion, with a 50 percent aid intensity. The three sub-programmes of the "Home Hotness" program successfully launched boiler, cooling machine and opening shutter replacements as of autumn 2014. By mid-April 2015, more than 25,000 applicants could have received the supporting document. This spring, at the end of April, the program will focus on the communities of houses with more than 4 but not more than 60 flats, housing associations, while at the same time the program is being developed to help people over 60 apartments. The aim is to ensure that the buildings concerned achieve the corresponding value of the energy requirements, the C-category and the energy efficiency of the corresponding buildings can improve at least two categories. The aid to be awarded by tender may not only be granted for thermal insulation and window replacement, but also for the modernisation of heating systems and the deployment of renewable energy-based systems. Dear Secretary of State, In this context, I ask you: what are the most important terms and conditions of tender and information about energy efficiency proposals in the condominium? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , and what kind of public energy efficiency applications and resources the Hungarian families can expect this year and the following year. Thank you.
u2015-05-11-150	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, About 40 percent of energy consumption in Hungary is domestic energy consumption. Most of this is heating energy. This is why it is important for the government to know which applications it will issue, for example, for homes and housing associations. The tender itself was launched on 23 February, specifically with the aim of helping the population with the most energy-underbuilt properties. The amount of state aid depends on saving the CO2 unit, which could save between 750 and 950 forints per kilogram and about 20-25 per cent for housing costs. You mentioned that 20,000 apartments will be renewed from this program, which is HUF 10 billion, but we think that we do not want to close the program, but that if the framework is exhausted, we want to continue this by region. Tenders may be submitted from 30 April until the available source is exhausted. Like I said, it's a regional system. The next, fifth element of the program "Home Gay" will be the so-called washing machine change program, which we would like to publish in the first half of this year, for about 20,000 households we would like to help replace washing machines with energy-efficient machines. [[17.00]] This represents approximately HUF 30-40 thousand from the purchase price in the form of a discount. Further programmes will be available from EU and Hungarian sources between 2014 and 20. They will be worth some 240 billion forints, and they will also apply for the own share from within the economic recovery programme with an intensity of about 50 per cent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , it can be said that about 50 percent of Hungary's real estate stock can be renewed. Please, Congressman, accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-152	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman, we have a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-153	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. Unused energy is the cheapest energy. From 2010 onwards, one of the most important measures of the government was the reduction of rent, in which I think we have been able to help millions of families. This is the warm home programme, with which, I think, the government is once again able to meet the most important principles of reducing costs, because it is an energy that is not used. I would definitely like to share my own experience, as my constituency, which is the 5th constituency of Fejér county, is not essentially a social and panel-house environment, but in my constituency centre in Sárbógárd there are such condominiums, and we, in cooperation with the joint representatives, thought that, in presenting this opportunity, we will start this competition. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I hope that this proposal will be successful and that I look forward to further progress. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-154	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The numbers always confirm the real and real existence of a project, a tender. I think that by receiving 500 applications today with an average bid of HUF 25 million, our application in the condominium is a success. We would like to continue with the program "Home Gayness." I told you the fifth element, but it's obvious that more elements are coming. It is very important to put out proposals that best meet the needs of the population, in the light of the processing and taking into account of professional proposals. The financial opportunities for EU applications are being explored in parallel, and we want the Hungarian population to achieve the highest possible level of energy savings in the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Member Gábor István bellozó is responsible.
u2015-05-11-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, They're redistributing a market again, and they're putting CBA buddies in position on Sunday's close-up. I understand that so far. But I can't understand why, after seeing how much damage this measure causes to Lake Balaton's tourism, there is no exception to this crazy idea of Lake Balaton's tourism. You can't travel to Siófok city centre on Saturdays, because the cars can't drive into the parking lot of the shops, because they're already full. Thus, both Saturday and Sunday, people's lives will be miserable with this measure and will be driven away from the weekend tourism in Balaton. And speaking of Lake Balaton, I would like to ask you to intervene not only in relation to the closing of Balaton on Sunday, but also in the case of another specific matter. This particular case in Balatonvilágos is an environmental disaster, in which huge piles of garbage were accumulated on the property of a private company in clearly unbearable storage conditions accompanied by unbearable smell. There was also a study that found that it could cause flammable public health problems, a danger to groundwater, and thus to Balaton, too, these garbage heaps could pose a threat. We would expect the government's machinery to start immediately, and within days it will eliminate the health of thousands of people, and not least the waste heap that endangers the whole Balaton, but a response to Sándor Fazekas's fellow minister shows that the Ministry is completely impotent, the entire government has been in chaos, as part of the measures have been transferred to the disaster protection of Fejér County, another part of it to Baranya County, while the garbage heaps have been standing there for months in Somogy County, Balatonvilágos. Please, Minister, help me deal with this unbearable situation. Thank you.
u2015-05-11-158	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister John Lazarus, who will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-159	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If I may, I would first answer this second question, a simpler question. I can't help myself, but the Hungarian state would have an obligation to help the problem. What I mean by this is that, on the basis of the statements of the representative of the government office which I have run and supervised, I am able to instruct them to report on the pollution in Balatonvilágos, as has been the case with many social criticisms and civil remarks, that the government has begun to exempt the Scented Road dump, and that the transport of hazardous waste is still taking place. I can have it examined in the Balaton plains, Congressman, based on your announcement, what is the real situation and I can inform you correctly. With regard to Sunday's closed hours, allow me to make two comments. Obviously, this question divides society. What I can tell you is the reason why I, myself and a number of my fellow Members, supported the proposal. Every Sunday, one million people in Hungary work from over four million legal, tax-paying workers. I do not think that there is a Member among us who believes that it would be healthy for a family to work on Sundays for a million people, including mothers and children. It is indeed the government's creed and programme to take steps to exempt as many workers as possible from the obligation and coercive burden of working on Sundays. I've met a lot of people who have a painful Sunday business closure, but I've also met a lot of people who think that they can spend time with their family instead of working, with Tesco tellers who have children who can deal with their children on Sundays and who don't take away Sundays. There's no doubt that six days are going to have a lot of work to do. So we have taken this step to protect Sunday workers rather than to interfere in any market. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-160	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2015-05-11-161	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you are the Minister of Public Administration, and in the Balatonvilágos case, apparently, the administration... - I don't see how you understand the damage to Lake Balaton...
u2015-05-11-162	Congressman, your microphone isn't working. Give me a second. I'll count the time.
u2015-05-11-163	Then we'll try again. So I came to you, Minister, because you are the Minister of Public Administration, and in the Balatonvilágos case, an administrative bankruptcy occurred, and that is why I asked you to help me intervene, and thank you for doing so. In the matter of keeping it closed, understand that the situation in Balaton has become untenable already. I suggest you take the next government meeting to Siófok on a Saturday, where, for the first time, you can go to a shopping mall with, say, a cheerful little push. They're gonna love you very much, believe me, because of the situation. Then, let's say, in Balatonvilágos, give a presentation on how effectively the situation was resolved in the case of Scentos Road. If you want to avoid this and avoid being swept away by public hatred, believe me, this situation on Lake Balaton must be resolved. A simple government meeting can be put on the agenda and exempted from the obligation to close the shop on Sunday in the settlements of Lake Balaton, where otherwise people would need to close in two or three months. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to generate revenue to cover their entire annual lives. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2015-05-11-164	Thank you, Congressman. I've included your time frame. You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-05-11-165	If I may, I would like to begin by saying that the single government office, which has existed in the Hungarian administration since 1 April, is essentially after 140 years, gives the government the opportunity to take direct action in Balatonvilágos's case. On the other hand, I would like to note that I do not believe that anyone is coming to Lake Balaton for shopping. People go to the Lake Balaton to rest, and I think it's an acceptable thing for someone who goes to rest to respect the holidays of Sunday workers. [[17.10]] I mean, you can get used to going shopping on Sundays, it's a comfortable thing, the only question is, when you or we shop on Sundays, we thought about what it would do to the person on the other side of the bar. Did anyone consider why they would do what they could do on Saturday or Friday afternoon on Sunday, taking away the man who had to work for us or for me on Sunday? I'm asking you to appreciate that, too. By the way, trade traffic increased in March, despite Sunday's closure, and trade traffic did not decrease. [[Gábor István Bellozó: It was Easter, Minister!]] I believe that society will certainly adopt these aspects. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-166	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: "Does the Internet usage fee really decrease as a result of Betterman's signature collection? It's an address. Minister Ákos Kara has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[The First of Novak: Yes.]] The answer is yes, so you have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In his annual reports, I talked about how expensive Internet usage charges are in Hungary every year in his night debates. I said that the third lowest proportion of regular broadband mobile users in the EU is the third in Hungary. And I also said that the government announcement that broadband will be everywhere by 2018 will be misleading, because it will only be where they can pay outstandingly high charges in international comparison. Compared to gross average income, domestic mobile internet charges are more than three times higher than Slovenia and the Czech Republic, and the prices here are twenty-three times higher than Denmark. I also raised this problem in the debate on the advertising law, in which László L. Simon acknowledged, and I quote:. The Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the internet cheaper than we do here. It will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change this area. So said the Secretary of State, but they didn't do anything. That is why we continued to exert pressure until the government finally backed down, including from Jobbik's signature collection action, social pressure, one of which is aimed at freeing the basic internet. Now you've finally leaked to the pro-government media that you're planning to cut VAT instead of Internet taxes in the area. Tamás Deutsch, led by Tamás Deutsch, created from HUF 12.7 million, and who knows how much it operated and edited, has not been able to read a single word about this news since then. So I ask you whether this leaked news is true and do you know that the VAT directive within the EU does not allow us to apply a reduced rate on the Internet. If they know that, what are they planning? Some kind of appeal to the European Union so that we can decide our internal affairs, or will they finally initiate our exit from the European Union or a social debate or referendum on it? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-168	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll allow me, I'd like to start a little further, and then I'd like to give you a specific answer to your question in the time frame. On the one hand, you know for sure that internet services are provided to users worldwide by market companies, and this is how it works in Hungary. You are probably aware that the level of Internet access charges is essentially determined by market conditions and not by the government. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] At the same time, the government can also make it possible for citizens to get cheaper access to internet subscription and knowledge about it. Therefore, if I may, I would briefly sum up that we have actually said and kept it exactly on schedule that by 2018 and at the latest by 2020, high-speed broadband will be available in all households in Hungary. Then, nationwide, we will soon start training more than 100,000 people to acquire the necessary digital skills. The government is developing electronic public services, introducing intelligent urban services first in Nyíregyháza, making broadband internet access available at all schools and modernising existing connections. Honourable Congressman, Thanks to the consistent policy of the government, Hungary has been on a growing economic path for many years, so next year the government will also explore the possibility of reducing some tax burdens. For example, I would like and support the revision of the utility tax in a direction that, in the case of the construction of completely new networks and the significant modernisation of existing networks - i.e. in this case 100 megabit/second bandwidth - not only reduces, but completely eliminates, for years after being put into service, the obligation to pay public utility taxes. For example, this could reduce the cost of internet use for people. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-171	We've been getting used to the government saying that when it comes to tax cuts, they talk about it for years, and they don't do anything about it. For example, the family discount for the second child, which has not increased this year, even though they have been talking about it for over a year. I'd appreciate it if you wouldn't just talk about it, but do something about it. No, not in the interest of Internet taxation, but, for example, we could consider moving to the free internet, because we are collecting signatures now because this could in itself be a continuation of the reduction in overhead charges and, by cutting down the charges for major Internet packages, it could boost telework, televising, electronic administration, thereby reducing both car traffic and unnecessary queues. I recommend to you that you have already passed the test of the free Wi-Fi introduced in the main squares and Marcell Tokody, a representative of Jobbik's capital, several days ago, at the end of April, the Metropolitan Assembly decided to investigate the possibility of free Wi-Fi spreading all over Budapest. So I ask the government to think about the introduction of the free internet, as well as of our hundreds of thousands of signatures, given the social pressure. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-173	Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, You have the right to be concerned about the internet use or internet charges, but not only do you have the right to employ you, but millions of our countrymen. That is why we believe that the Internet consultation, which you have rightly said, is correct, concerns a number of questions: at least four questions relate to how people imagine the fee for providing the Internet. So they want to pay more, less or how to reduce it. I encourage people to participate in the soon-to-be Internet consultation, and I am sure that if the majority of citizens express their opinions and express their opinions in one direction, the government will decide accordingly. I would like to confirm once again that I myself would like the Internet charges to be reduced and the necessary government steps taken to do so. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-174	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: without a GMO in the EU. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-05-11-175	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-05-11-176	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 March this year, the Council of Europe formally adopted the new EU legislation on genetically modified organisms under which Member States are free to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in their territory. The new legislation does not change the authorisation procedure itself, but it gives each Member State the opportunity to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in their territory. For example, they may refer to environmental aspects, urban planning needs, social and economic impacts, pollution of other products or agricultural policy purposes. Member States may prohibit certain specific plant varieties or plants bearing certain characteristics. The new rules oblige States that grow GMOs to form protective bands to prevent genetically modified organisms from passing from one country to another, where this is already banned. In Hungary, even in the Fundamental Law, the objective of GMO exemption is set out, and a consensus has been reached across national consensus and party political sides. In the European Union, Hungary is the first to introduce new legislation allowing Member States to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully ask what other measures the Government intends to take in addition to the transposition of the new EU directive into national law for GMO-free Hungary. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-178	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-179	Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, This year, more than four years of negotiation resulted in the creation of EU legislation to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. [[17.20]] I think we can appreciate all this as a breakthrough. During the negotiation of the legislation, the Hungarian government worked to ensure that the Member States could finally decide, in a sovereign way, whether or not they wanted to grow GMOs in their territory. However, Hungary does not stop at the ban on public cultivation. In January this year, at the agricultural fair in Berlin, International Green Week - Grüne Woche - we launched a movement for a GMO-free Europe. I think it is very important that European countries that reject the use of GMOs in agriculture unite their forces. The members of the zone undertake to ensure that no genetically modified varieties are grown within the region, taking into account the aspects of the conservation of biodiversity. I firmly believe that the future of a competitive and sustainable Europe is in GMO-free production. We also consider it important to provide GMO-free feed in animal husbandry. Our ultimate goal is to make agricultural production entirely GMO-free. We need to take steps to reduce our dependence on imported feed so that we can ensure the safety of our food with our own GMO-free feed. In this spirit, we joined the Duna Soya Association in early 2013, but we are not only thinking in the soy. In the case of fodder plants, diversity is of paramount importance. Thanks to the agricultural gene banks, a significant proportion of the indigenous genetic resources were collected and preserved in Hungary's largest agricultural gene bank, the Plant Diversity Centre in Tápiószele. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-180	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-181	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. It is reassuring to me that Hungarian agricultural management is doing everything in its power to prevent GMO crops and animals from being kept in Hungary. It is also important that we have taken the initiative not to have a GMO product in Europe. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] I also asked the question because I am from the region where agriculture plays a prominent role, both crop production and livestock production, and what, if any, we give to our children or what we eat at home in the household. I think it is important that these plants, or animals fed with such plants, should not enter in any way into public catering, in any way into Hungarian crop production or livestock production. So I congratulate the Ministry, and I hope that you will be able to achieve further results in this area. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]]
u2015-05-11-182	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-11-183	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, I agree with every word you say, and I would like to say that there are more than a hundred species of plants in the Carpathian Basin that can be regarded as potential fodder plants and that we are currently using only a small part of it. It is in the interests of all of us that only safe food produced in a sustainable way should be placed on our table, in which we can also ensure the preservation of biodiversity. That is why, even this year, we would like to make sure that meat, fish, eggs, milk, honey and feed can be labelled GMO-free in Hungary. Our control authorities continue to closely control seeds, food and feed. The National Food Chain Safety Office will continue GMO-free controls under a priority project in 2015. I very much hope that all the efforts made by the Ministry will result in safe GMO-free foods on our table, on our children's table. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]]
u2015-05-11-184	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Work-based society without trade unions? It's an address. Minister Sándor Czomba has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] Yes, the congresswoman accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The press heard that a union leader was fired from one of the Posta's subsidiaries two days after the announced strike. This is about Zsolt Kuti, who worked for the company 12 years ago, and what he was accused of is that he had to be put in such a position because of his reputation and economic interest. Dear Secretary of State, The climate in this country is becoming more and more anti-union - I could say that there is a scandal. The removal of leaders can be observed, intimidation of members, firing these people with immediate effect, and then years of litigation. Obviously, we've talked a lot about this with you, and I'm not going to convince you that the new Labour Code has created the legal basis for the abuse that trade unions are now facing. You do not need the agreement of the trade unions to fire an official; you have abolished the right to strike, you have narrowed the rights of workers, trade unions have reduced their ability to assert their interests. But you are also ignoring the European Charter, the European Social Charter, a large part of the EU's basic documents, which all unanimously state that the worker has the right to strike. But we also see that the freedom of expression and opinion of trade union officials should be guaranteed in accordance with domestic and international law, on paper, but in real life this does not apply. Dear Secretary of State, I know that Fidesz doesn't care at all about what's going on with employees' rights, you don't want to build a strong Hungary, because if you wanted to, you would ensure that trade unions can function effectively. However, I have one question for you, and answer me, please, this is a public company: what does the Hungarian Government do to ensure that this shame cannot remain so? When will Zsolt Kuti's employment be restored? [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-11-186	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I know that it is worth blaming the government for everything, especially in opposition roles, but I would like to point out to you that when we signed the code of ominous work, you must remember that all trade union confederations and all employers' powers, all six of those who have representativeness in Hungary, have signed it. For practically 20 years, no one dared to touch the Labour Code, and a consensus agreement was reached on the basis of which, I think, indeed, I do not think, but I believe that, both from a worker's point of view and from an employer's point of view, a flexible, transparent and today's age. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] There's been a labor code. Obviously, the rights and opportunities of trade unions are laid down in the Labour Code. The Code of Work differs from the previous one by including a framework agreement, not by accident, because we want those sector specifics, specialities that affect a sector, not embedded in collective agreements, to be enshrined in laws, but in the same way that they are in Germany or Austria, for example. At sectoral level, by collective agreement, create the possibility of working within the framework of legislation, taking into account the specialties. In my opinion, this is the most important part of the work of employers' and employees' representatives. The fact that there is a forum in Hungary: I would just like to mention the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] where we will be discussing very important issues just this week. So I think that in this respect, too, the government (Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.) the framework [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which is necessary for employees' interests to function well, has been created.
u2015-05-11-188	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2015-05-11-189	Mr Secretary of State, look: I did not ask what your labour code was like and who signed it and who did not sign it, but what will happen to Zsolt Kuti and what will happen to all the other people who were in a similar situation and who are in Hungary today. I am thinking of what happened at Hankook's Rácalmás plant when the president of the Dunaújváros Rubber Manufacturers Union was fired because he asked for unpaid leave to continue his legal studies. Practically nothing can be seen, by the way, after they continued to receive 18 billion investment aid on State aid to Hankook, even though this is how they treated that man. But I could also say that at the public transport company in Pécs, Tüke Busz Zrt., when they resigned to a union leader, Ferenc Hofekker, with immediate effect, because he, along with his associates, refused to work on the grounds of an accident caused by the technical condition of the buses. Dear Secretary of State, I find it unacceptable that the government will do nothing to prevent similar cases from happening to a subsidiary of a state-owned company; that trade union leaders will be removed in a series of series, and that trade union workers will be intimidated. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, Do you want to change that, or don't you want to change it? [[The president's ringing again.]] I don't want any bullshit. Tell me what your opinion is. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-11-190	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to point out to you with sufficient calmness, repeating my previous statements, that the legislative environment that creates dialogue with regard to the workers' and employers' side is present in Hungary. [[17 .30]] At the moment when the Hungarian government would intervene in how, on what basis, X., Y. and Z. were fired, or in what way different grievances were done there, it would interpel at the moment to what reason the Hungarian Government was involved in this. Rightfully, anyway, much more justified than what has just been asked. [[Dr. András Schiffer: State Company, State Company!]] I would therefore like to inform you with patience and complacency that the legislative framework that settles these issues is available in Hungary, and that the Hungarian government is open to meaningful dialogue on both the employer's and the employee's side in the next period. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-192	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, More than 10 percent increase in tourism. What season can domestic hotels expect? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. Yes, Congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I am very pleased that Minister Mihály Varga has just appointed Minister of State András Tállai as a responder, as Minister of State can experience in his home and in his own constituency the positive effects of tourism, as the number of guest nights has increased significantly not only in the Zsóry bath in Fezőkövesd, but also in the community of settlements called the gems of Bükkalja. Hungary has become one of the most dynamically developing economies of the European Union in 2014, and this trend seems to be growing again this year, thanks to God, as we are going to achieve economic growth above 3 percent this year, which, I think, will bring the country back to the top at European level. Such expansion requires the ability of all sectors of the economy to deliver outstanding performance. One of these outstanding achievements is tourism, which this year, in the first three months of the year, recorded a 15 percent increase in turnover compared to the same period of the previous year. In March 2015, the number of nights spent by foreign guests increased by 6.4 percent and domestic guests by 8.8 percent compared to recent years. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary and Magyar Turizmus Zrt have not only conducted successful international marketing activities. in recent years, domestic demand has also increased significantly, so it is true that, thanks to the growing real earnings from year to year, more spending money and spending resources have remained in the people's hands. If you look at the foreign customer traffic, the UK has performed outstandingly, which has increased the number of guests in Hungary by 32 percent, and Italy and Austria as well. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that these figures illustrate the trend that has characterised Hungarian tourism in recent years, and I am very confident that this will continue. I ask, therefore, honourable Secretary of State, what you can expect in the profession, what season tourism can expect. Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-11-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as tourism, the performance of the entire Hungarian economy is increasing, and we have already evaluated today in Parliament, and we have analysed the great macroeconomic indicators that this country has. In particular, we have also focused on the construction sector, and tourism deserves it, because I think it is one of the key sectors of our growth. It is very important, because the important thing for tourism is not only that it produces revenue, and that the numbers are good, guest nights are rising, bookings, orders, I somehow feel that the Hungarian people feel better when they can see many guests in the country. Whether it is a guest or a foreign guest from the other side of the country, we will feel better somehow, simply because we are a hospitable people, and we like and love our guests very much, and we like to have a good time with us; we are happy with Mezőkövesden or Bükkalján at the wine cellars, we offer our values, we present our culture to them. I think that it is not just the numbers, the money in terms of tourism that matters, but that somehow we will be all of this, so we will be Hungarians when we see that they love and accept us and are interested in our country and our small settlements. I do see this progress locally, but the indicators of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office fully confirm that Hungary is also on the right track in this respect. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-196	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Bánki Erik in return. Here you go.
u2015-05-11-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I think that we have made the right decision here in this House, when we left the SZÉP card as an opportunity to benefit workers during the debate on the tax laws for 2015. This is confirmed by data from the first three months of the year that it continues to have a very serious stimulating effect on domestic tourism. That is why I am confident that in the next period - we will be slowly discussing next year's tax laws before the House - this support can be maintained, and I also hope that Magyar Turizmus Zrt., as a state company responsible for the marketing of countries, can manage with a budget that will allow active participation in the foreign market. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-198	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can assure you, Congressman, that what depends on the government on the SZÉP card will do everything in its power to ensure that this remains and that millions of people are given the opportunity to relax and have fun in Hungary under civilised conditions. It is also very important to pay attention to our infrastructure, our buildings, so I think that in the EU budget period 2014-2020, there will be an important role to be played by sources of tourism support and opportunities for applications. The government supports that our existing buildings, investments, hotels, catering facilities and catering facilities are available to domestic or foreign tourists at the same level, because this is in the interest of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-200	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:37 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Group of the LMP has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/2860 amending the laws to transform the rules on the declaration of assets of politicians exercising public authority and farmers with public funds. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Congressman András Schiffer has the floor.
u2015-05-11-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Our proposal contains nothing more than a regular, legally required propertyisation investigation against politicians. We are proposing that this propertyisation investigation against politicians should be conducted not by the tax authority but by the Court of Auditors, not by a government body, but by the body of Parliament, by the Court of Auditors. Appropriate budgetary coverage should be provided to the Court of Auditors in order to do so. Dear Parliament, This proposal was formulated by the LMP last February when, at the crack of the Simon case, the immunity committee began an endless story to try to find out, on the basis of the declarations of assets, what caused it to watch 250 million forints in the bank account of the second member of the MSZP at that time. At the same time, I am convinced that the system of declaration of assets in itself is necessary, but it is far from sufficient to ensure that citizens are assured that politicians will not steal public wealth. Dear Parliament, Its 25-year debt to the political elite is to create such clear relations that no one in Hungary who comes close to public funds should think of reaching out to the community. [[17.40]] That is why, when we demand that politicians be examined for wealth, this is not just about Members of Parliament, it is not just about senior government officials. Such a mandatory propertyisation investigation would also be required for managers of public-owned companies and local government managers. It is also important to see that there is an absurd circumstance in Hungary that people may actually think that there is only one country in Europe where there is no corruption, that corruption has been eradicated, and that Hungary, as we can see wherever we look, either in Slovenia, France or Romania, is taking prime ministers, mayors and ministers on a ledge; President of the Republic is being detained in France, Prime Minister is being arrested in advance in Croatia, Slovenia, somehow Hungary is either a non-corruption zone - which I think few of us believe - or a country without consequences. What we are proposing is that the propertyisation investigation should not be carried out against political elite players according to whose current interests the tax authority is motivated by, but rather by law, that, in certain cases and at certain times, the Court of Auditors conducts such a propertyisation investigation against members of the political elite. We need a property inspection because we need to find a trace of the origin of the property. People in the country have reason to be annoyed by the quarter-century experience of 20-something-thirty-year-olds who live on public money in their world, earning fabulous palaces with luxury swimming pools, luxury cars, luxury hunting. People are curious about where you've got the cover, and that's what you have to answer to the Parliament after a quarter of a century. For a reason, everyone in this country today thinks that politicians can acquire fairy tale wealth that is not justified by their official income, because the income that goes out to offshore havens is constantly increasing. If there's a wealth investigation, you can track down how, say, a twenty-something-thirty-year-old MP, mayor or minister can find themselves, say, a luxury swimming pool. How can a person buy luxury apartments after ten to twenty years of public office time. Perhaps, if there is a mandatory political asset-growth test, we can also find out how some people's apartments grow on their own, and we can also find out what makes an ex-Secretary of State, a Member of Parliament, suddenly HUF 200 million in his bank account. As long as the declaration of property is the only issue of the Parliament, it is possible to have fun with so-called accidentally misspelled data, but no one will ever tell it in itself on the basis of the declaration of property procedure, where the fortunes of the fairy tale were born from the devil, and in the meantime we look at the income that flows out of this country. That is why this proposal should be included in a series of subjects [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So that people have a guarantee that politicians won't steal public property. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Given, and above all, that we have had laws tabled on the same subject ourselves, the MSZP therefore supports the LMP's efforts in this regard, even if Mr Schiffer tried to discourage us from doing so in his previous speech. Because, Congressman, it is in everyone's interest, especially society, to ensure that public life is transparent and least polluted by corruption. I also think - and I would also like to mention this - that it is in our interest, too, for us Members, to find out about such individual cases, because it is indeed the case that society has an established image that the entire political class is infected with these phenomena, and that is precisely because these individual cases rarely come to light, rarely succeed, if you like to make a case. Indeed, it is untenable that the public authorities do not act on these matters. First of all, I would like to confirm once again that this proposal and all other similar things that ensure and promote transparency in public life will be supported and supported, but what we see - and this is one of the best examples, let us say, of the increase in the foreign minister's wealth - is that there are still opportunities today, for example, that the NAV could calmly launch an investigation into wealth in such a case, where, say, the additional HUF 200 million came from in the family, but they do not act or act. In other words, what is needed in particular is a kind of government attitude that wants to do something for a non-corruption Hungary, and wants to really act for it, because there are plenty of opportunities for it to do so today. However, of course, if anything further promotes this process, this effort, we stand by it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-11-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Sallai R. Benedek, the LMP Group, within a two-minute timeframe. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Possibly Other Politics has consistently tried, in recent years, to carry out legislative harmonisation activities in line with these principles. Recently, when we had legislation on real estate registration before us, we also said that public operators should have public property registration data so that they didn't have to look into how many square meters of real estate we were talking about. In the same way as in the past, as the verb - quoted in quotes - it was common that if something falls off the trailer, then how people acquire it, it became, in effect, the emergence of the concept of family help, which appeared as such a common expression, because now everyone who acquires something that they cannot explain is ratting on family help, and everything is settled. Obviously, despite the fact that it sees press publicity nationwide, no one is beginning to look into it, no public body dares to examine the behaviour of a minister, a secretary of state, or of this kind. As a result, it is clear that the Group of the May Other Political Group would support this motion, and it calls on both opposition and pro-government representatives to do the same, since obviously the person who becomes a public figure must undertake to make part of his life an open book in some respects. And why can't we do that? If the Fidesz guys ever took what they're talking about seriously, they could only support such a motion. I think that the Group of Possibly Other Politics would be open to dialogue on how to design this in a way that is acceptable to all groups, so let us have the opportunity to engage in dialogue on this. Let us have the opportunity to debate about this, we can start the way that the term "politician" should not be synonymous with the thief cheater, but with the public figure for the public, and again give us an uplifting and honouring title that we have lost in the last twenty years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-11-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. Mr Imre Vejkey, on behalf of the KDNP Group, spoke in a normal time frame. I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2015-05-11-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is essentially the same as two previous proposals made by our fellow Member Dr. András Schiffer, T/133. and T/1559. With proposals No 1. Several legislative proposals have been submitted to the Judicial Committee concerning the rules on the declaration of assets. These were rejected by the Judicial Committee, but, at the moment, experts from the Judicial Committee and the Committee of immunity which I led are examining the proposals that were previously rejected. They look at the proposals they have made and how it might be necessary to build them into Hungarian law. In any case, we must state that we in Hungary have the strictest legislation on asset declarations in Europe. [[17.50]] As regards this bill, it should be noted that the State Audit Office is not competent to perform this function. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not the only problem!]] That is not the only problem, my fellow Member, I have just told you the rest. The basic statutory public-law function of the State Court of Auditors is capable of carrying out legality, practicality and effectiveness checks on the general government subsystem. Therefore, even if it were to receive a budget, it would not know, because it is not appropriate from a constitutional professional point of view. That is why we do not support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. András Schiffer: Why don't you support him?]]
u2015-05-11-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-05-11-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The events of the past period have shown that the obligation of Members and political leaders to make declarations of assets does not provide sufficient protection against abuse, there is evidence of questionable wealth in some political circles, and it has become clear that the current system does not provide any guarantees against this extremely harmful phenomenon, so radical reform of the system is needed. Therefore, we will support the LMP initiative, but I would add that we will submit a lot of amendments to it if it comes to this House, because we want to change the current system more radically. We had an amendment to this, which Mr Vejkey may have mentioned earlier. This was also rejected and voted against by you, because this included the same increase in wealth test at the beginning of the cycle and at the end of the cycle, and it was also included in the public declaration of relatives' assets - it says that they should not be public - and we would even like to get there once in a while, and this is what we are talking about for everyone sitting here in Parliament and either arguing that this law should be adopted, tightened up or possibly argued against such a law. We should not talk about this issue, we should act! All of Jobbik's politicians have made public the property statements of family members living with them in the household. Our children's property statements can be found on Jobbik.hu because we have nothing to hide. We have told those who have nothing to hide to join us and make it public individually. It's a personal decision. Do not hide behind the parties, they will publish these declarations of property individually! But apart from Jobbik, unfortunately, no Member has made it public, and this applies to the LMP, the MSZP and the pro-government. Make it public, take a step against it. Right now, we shouldn't talk, we should act. We will, of course, support the introduction of this law to the House, but we will submit a lot of amendments to it to make it even more stringent than the LMP had imagined. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if there are any other factions who want to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr András Schiffer, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reply. You have a two-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2015-05-11-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your comments. Thank you specifically for your very meaningful contribution to the Fidesz faction. First of all, I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Barándy. I didn't want to discourage the socialist faction at all, and on the contrary, I was trying to say exactly what I was trying to say, instead of making an election campaign into a personal or party-based circus - the Simon case, last February - but instead we need institutional guarantees. We were exactly moved by the Simon case that we should not have fun campaign-to-campaign with who suddenly has 200 million in his bank account, whose apartment is suddenly growing by a few square feet, but that we should have an institutional guarantee that can reveal the origins of unfair, unjust, or even criminally acquired assets. In itself, the declaration of assets system, no matter how we grind it, is not suitable for this. Moreover, the LMP proposal also covers in part close relatives and partly interests. We have seen in the previous term that certain orders have landed in the interests of the Member of Parliament, and after that, there was absolutely no way to find out what the origin of the property was. So we need a solution that, on an institutional level, prevents sinful assets from being hidden. I'm sorry, Congressman Bárándy, I'm not the one who's spoiling you, I didn't appoint Gábor Simon as the second member of the MSZP. And the fact that the case is still unknown is also not our responsibility. And that, Congressman Vejkey, you claim that you are very strict, that one of the strictest regimes in Europe is in Hungary. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: As regards the declaration of assets]] I think it's a rather amusing procedure. This wealth declaration system is so strict that it has not been possible to discover the origins of virtually any impertinent, impertinently increasing wealth over the last 25 years. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[Noise.]] My fellow Members, the meeting continues. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the National Rural Strategy and its implementation, H/2305. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Agriculture. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2015-05-11-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After the 2000s, the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments pursued a rather reprehensible rural policy, resulting in the elimination of wing lines, closed schools, growing large farms and the reduction of the rural population reserve. From 2006 onwards, József Ángyán proclaimed a counter-policy throughout the country in the colors of Fidesz and Magos, and he said everywhere that Fidesz would stop this and restore the population-preservation power of the countryside. He promised that the time for small farms and family farms would come again, he promised that food-producing, value-creating work would be typical of agriculture, and that everything would be about steering Fidesz to end the period that would destroy it, bleed the villages and small settlements. After entering the 2010 government, quite a lot of people thought in the Hungarian countryside that the person of József Ángyán was the right guarantee that this would be achieved during the time of Fidesz's administration. The result of this work was the national rural strategy, which was tried to make the fullest possible through a rather wide range of social consultation, involving society, with forums held in different places. Since no committee in the system of the Hungarian Parliament is particularly concerned only with rural development, it is important to stress that this was not seen as an agricultural strategy, but as a rural strategy covering four-fifths of Hungary's population, where the rural shopkeeper, the rural small entrepreneur and the rural civil servant were just as important as the agricultural farmer. By 2012, the national rural strategy was designed by Fidesz almost uniquely with a greater social consensus and greater political support. In this rural strategy, a number of indicators have been formulated, the implementation of which, in our view, could, to this day, provide a guarantee that the population-reserving power of the countryside will be increased, that rural kindergartens and schools will be able to open again, that children will be put there, because if we can keep rural jobs and rural families in small settlements, if we can attract them back with permanent jobs, then there is a chance that the countryside will recover. In Hungary, centralisation with a terribly unhealthy and bad strategy, which is grouped around the capital city, has virtually a very large impact on how the rural population responds to a number of issues. The fact that a significant proportion of small owners, owners of small land in compensations, have already sold their land in recent decades, and that the large estate system began to grow well ten years ago or before, could create an extremely unhealthy, virtually South American agricultural structure. We see continuous traces of this in Hungary every day. We believe that it is time for Fidesz to declare that it has finally broken off with the promises that were constantly at the forefront of Fidesz's policy before 2012, with the policy that József Ángyán's name marked within the wallet of the former Ministry of Rural Development, whether it has finally broken off by giving small farmers and family farmers space in the Hungarian countryside, and has committed itself to the great estate as the government before Fidesz has done, or there is still hope that a higher-subsidised legislation will come from this decision adopted by the former government. [[18.00]] Is it possible to subject the budget to this strategy? - and now it's particularly topical when we're talking about this in advance. Is it possible to recreate that sectoral policies, road development, public education and health development should all be implemented in the spirit of the national rural development strategy, and that Hungary should be refocused on the fact that it is necessary to leave the living space in rural areas? This national rural strategy could, in our view, provide a guarantee of this if there is a proper political will. We want Fidesz and KDNP to confess that they have completely broken up with this, just as they did with the land in the management of national park assets, where obviously the strategy required growth, and compared to that, the intention of the governing parties, as it turned out a few weeks ago, is completely contrary. So he broke up with everything, or is it possible that the Fidesz kept something of this? If there is a chance, it should be brought here in the form of a parliamentary resolution, it should be presented, and the possibility of a meaningful debate on this rural strategy should be created in Parliament and a background for the preservation of the countryside. I ask your support for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-11-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in writing. Mr Gábor István Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, will be speaking. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is a subject that would be fair much longer than those few minutes of speeches, but I am trying to fit in. I, with the support of the Hungarian Socialist Party, have presented Parliament's resolution proposal twice in the last few years, describing the region we would like to see. The essence of this can be found somewhere around what my rapporteur, Mr Sallai, has just said. We would like to restore the rural economy, where there are growing family farms, and it also makes sense to work in the backyards, because there is an appropriate institutional background; where there is coordinated professional assistance behind producers, behind small family farmers, and they are not left alone, where the social economy can be brought to life, there are functioning social cooperatives, because they are not left alone, because there is an institutional background behind them that can put the right professional assistance, training structure, market building behind them, so that a rural economy can be built. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Of course, agricultural production has a major role to play in this, but even local energy production, because in many places it is the only way to start building a local economy at all, to generate income from it, or even to improve housing conditions. We have presented our strategy in this area twice as a proposal for a resolution, when the Fidesz majority has beaten this with the fact that these are very similar ideas to those described in the Angyán rural development strategy. I couldn't argue with that because indeed, the Ángyán rural development strategy has similar ideas written down. But, dear Fidesz government, they didn't do that, but rather the opposite. Therefore, I think it is absolutely good that the implementation and monitoring of this strategy is required by this Parliament, with the Fidesz majority, in order to get a little further ahead of these objectives. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-11-216	I welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr András Schiffer.
u2015-05-11-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This national rural strategy, which the LMP has also brought forward by the House, courtesy of my colleague, Róbert Sallai Benedek, is nothing more than a previous government resolution; it is a government decision that Professor Ángyán has presented to the second Orbán government, which has never become a reality. This national rural strategy is the policy that József Ángyán represented in the Defence Association in the 2000s, the policy that took József Ángyán to the protests of Magos in the autumn of 2005. This is the policy in which Magos, many of the current Fidesz Members, went out onto the street and protested against the agricultural policy of the false left-wing government. And this is the policy that you asked your constituents to trust in 2009-2010. Now you, and not now, as early as 2012, when you showed József Ángyán to the Secretary of State for Rural Development, clearly told people that what they promised was a joke in 2009-2010. This rural strategy is not needed by the Orbán government. This policy is about the rural development policy for which József Ángyán accepted the colours of Fidesz and the membership of the government in 2010, that Hungary is breaking off with the development path where the countryside is merely the subject of agricultural policy, where the large plant with fewer and fewer people is fattening the purses of the rich few. Instead, József Ángyán recommended an integrated rural development strategy for the government, which not only makes the Hungarian countryside viable, it is cultural rural development, conservation of natural resources, but also helps to start the local economy. Not the big latifundium owners should become rich, but many small, strong local economies should be created, which will give people jobs and help to preserve natural resources, our natural heritage. That's what this strategy was all about. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-11-218	I now give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor in two minutes.
u2015-05-11-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It was interesting to hear the concern of my socialist fellow Member, who have always represented the large estate system of capitalised capitals, and now suddenly began to worry about rural family farmers. This could have been the result of a process of development. Well, let's not completely believe that that's how it's gonna stay. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Csányi, Lőrinc Mészáros. Zoltán Grimlock: Nyerges. Gábor István Bellozó: Simicska.]] On the other hand, as far as the national rural strategy is concerned, it seems to be working well. The government has adopted this resolution. In the spirit of this, Hungarian agriculture has achieved unprecedented performance in the last three years. Anyone who accidentally monitors this sees that it adds increasing strength to GDP year after year. There has not been a year in the last three years where agriculture has not preceded the results of the previous year, nor has it overwritten the results of the previous year. As mentioned above, we would like to change the share of land currently used by some 50-50 percent capitalised large-scale farming and family farming, and this process has started, 80% for private-farming family farmers and 20 percent for large-capital enterprises. This will be fulfilled in about a few years. Therefore, it is not true that the national rural strategy did not meet the expectations in this sense, or that large capitalised plants would have covered Hungary. It's just that they're being held back all the time. The MSZP was worried about them when they didn't pass the Earth Traffic Act. He was sorry that these capitalized big companies were going to have to go behind his back. I believe that agriculture is now a major part of the Hungarian economy, the question is whether this, which the national rural strategy has also formulated, can continue to develop in this dynamic. In our opinion, yes. It is just proof of what I just said that agriculture is an outstanding achievement every year. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-220	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-05-11-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! I will not be surprised by the fact that Jobbik supports this proposal, since we also submitted this proposal for a resolution, word for word, one day. Those who may not have followed the debate, it is important to note that this is a proposal by Fidesz, by the way. So that proposal for a decision is literally the same as that of Fidesz in the national rural strategy, and we would like to bring this to the House, which, by the way, was originally committed by Fidesz. So, let us not forget that when we sat here in the Parliament in 2010, this proposal for a resolution was discussed here together by the parliamentary parties. Then, of course, it quickly became clear in Fidesz, I think that they have no intention of implementing the national rural strategy, and since then, József Ángyán, his spiritual father, has been removed from their circles, is now undesirable, so, in this way, it may be understandable, for political reasons, in any case, that they dare not bring this strategy here. However, if President Sándor Font is right and the Fidesz people who also argued in committee that this strategy should not be brought before the House, so if those arguments are true, then I do not understand why we cannot argue about it. If everything goes well in the country, if everything goes as you promised in 2010 and before that, then you should be the ones most urged to sit down here, in the walls of the House and discuss whether you are really right. They do not dare to bring you here, my fellow Members, because the Hungarian reality is not in relation to what is described in the national rural strategy, thanks to what is contained in it. [[18.10]] I am very sorry that they keep giving examples of the few thousand, truly developing and well-run economies, as if they were the Hungarian countryside, as if they were the starting point when we talked about the quality of the Hungarian countryside. I do not argue that there are a few thousand well-run farmers, but the Hungarian countryside should be about the 8 million people whose life opportunities and quality of life have not improved at all in recent years, and in many cases it has even deteriorated. That is why we strongly demand that this strategy be discussed in this way. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-05-11-222	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any further comments, and there are too many possibilities for this. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you all for your comments. I would like to thank them for this, and I would therefore prefer to respond to pro-government speakers. My most important message to Mr Font is that whether the government has broken off with the rural strategy is just proof that you are an example of GDP in terms of its capacity. The national rural strategy is not about the productivity of agriculture, it is about how much money it can produce, but about how many people can survive in the countryside, how much emigration, how many small businesses have ceased to exist, how many shopkeepers have been looking for. The rural strategy must play a much broader and greater role than merely how much of GDP agricultural production accounts for. By the way, the more intensive agricultural production is, the bigger the estates are. Obviously, that doesn't contradict what we're saying. So it's this argument that supports what we were about to ask for. The governing party maintained the objectives set out in the national rural strategy. May I remind Mr President that, among other things, indicators include the fact that the Fidesz government wants to increase the number of agricultural land in the management of national parks from 288 thousand to 430,000 hectares. They gave me the opposite votes the other day. So it's not true that with this... [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] It contains the removal of property rights as a clear indicator, contrary to that. (Sándor Font intervenes.) This clearly shows that this does not support it. That they are trying to move from the direction of the estate, from the direction of the main estate, is also not supported, because if we look at the statistics of 2014 in agricultural subsidies, there are still Csányi, Leisztinger, Lőrinc Mészáros and such in the force field, and not that it was distributed to many small ones. The same people still get land without a land contest. The Land Traffic Act is useless without the Integration Act, since it can also preserve land use through several legal entities. So this all confirms that I think that we should bring it to Parliament and ask for your support for this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-11-224	Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on energy efficiency and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. The submission was made in T/4285. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal for an amendment to the Economic Committee as a designated committee closing a detailed debate is T/4285/6. and T/4285/7. was given to them. The report by the Committee on Sustainable Development, as a committee on debate, on a detailed debate T-4285/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/4285/9. and the summary report is T/4285/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available. I give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-05-11-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 7 May 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4285 on energy efficiency. Bill No. 1. The Committee discussed 44 points of the amendment. With the exception of point 40, i.e. the pivotal clause, the background material was accepted by 24 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. The Legislative Committee also issued its own amendment, which was adopted by 24 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. With regard to this bill, the government had two things in mind. On the one hand, to transpose into the law the legislative framework which the European Union has set out as a mandatory element, so that it accepts the transposition of the directive and, on the other hand, to create an appropriate framework for economic development, not to determine its regulation and not to regulate it individually, by regulating it on a single element, but by regulating it in a framework. The aim was not to impose additional burdens on the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the large-scale sector or the population, but to include the obligations that we have adopted and intend to implement in the European Union, both in 2020 and 2030. We believe that these factors have been included in the law. The proposal itself is capable of providing Hungary with a framework for increasing energy efficiency and achieving the target for us by 2020. Thus, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment by 24 votes to seven, with two abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-11-226	The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes. I give the floor to Dezső the Believer, notary.
u2015-05-11-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, it was expressed as a minority opinion that I would like to summarise briefly, in two words, that the bill was late and few; it was also said that it was a little shy. Let's start with what I said first, and that's the fact that the bill is late. The reason for this is that Hungary was subject to a so-called harmonisation obligation on this issue. However, that deadline expired in June 2014. We're almost a year after the expiration date. This, by the way, marked the conduct of the government as well. This precisely means that if the government had used this one year that exceeded the allowed deadline for real work, then I think it could have created a more meaningful and useful decision-making situation here for the Parliament. It's not enough because the government hasn't created such a situation for Parliament. Although this deadline has been kept and substantive proposals have been made in several countries in Europe, it seems that this was not the case for the minority at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. What has yet to be said is that for many countries in Europe, what has been recognised as a law is that what we decide today may be a way out for the future. In terms of quality of life, we can formulate something that is very important for all of us in terms of energy household. As a minority opinion, what the government has chosen in this case is a bad solution. He chose the solution that virtually does not decide the substantive issues in Parliament, but that they chose a solution that practically results in Parliament giving the government the authority to decide on issues related to energy efficiency and energy efficiency in almost all matters of substance. Overall, it may be said that this is an empty frame that the Parliament is planning to accept. Practically every question the government will have the opportunity to decide. Perhaps it would have been better and more effective if we could have identified various very important issues - renewable energy and other energy-related issues - in which Parliament could decide and leave it to the government to implement them. I think it's a classic setup, and it could be a classic solution. It has been stated that this bill is practically nothing more than an alibi law, so we intend to comply with our obligation to harmonise the law, but at the same time, if we look at it in practice, that is practically what did not happen, because then the decisions that are related to this issue will take place. So the wording is that an alibi law applies to this framework to be adopted. [[18.20]] At the same time, it has also been said that there are good and effective steps in this regard in Hungary, with regard to energy use and energy efficiency. The problem is that this does not appear at government level, but rather at local governments. Here at today's meeting we have heard, for example, about the example of Miskolc, where district heating is tried with entirely new geothermal energy, which is much more environmentally friendly and cheaper than the energies used today, or I could say that there is an example in the districts of Budapest that could be used, and there is also a municipal decision, such as the XIII. in the district, the country's first significant passive house. These would have been the thought circles or questions we would have expected to present in the bill - these did not appear. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-11-228	Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[Zsolt Szabó: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated Economic Committee. I now give the floor to János Bencsik, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development in this debate.
u2015-05-11-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Sustainable Development held its meeting on 21 April 2015 as a committee related to the debate on energy efficiency in T/4285. The detailed discussion of the legislative proposal No 44 and concluded that the House Rule of the Decision was in line with Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. According to Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act, it complies with the constitutional, legal, legislative and professional requirements set out therein. The Committee did not submit a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate and concluded the detailed discussion of the bill at its meeting on 21 April 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of this legislation, the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, which forms part of the national energy strategy framework, will receive the appropriate legislative environment that will allow the use of financial instruments and funds from European Union and public sources, which are expected to increase by the order of magnitude, to be used as effectively as possible, indeed by the State, and, as the Member before me mentioned here, in the context of municipal development and investment. It should be noted, however, that the investment in Miskolc in question could be essentially made from European Union and domestic public sources and government budgetary sources. This framework, which will thus be established, provides the strategy, the action plans, the legislative environment, the financial funds, financial instruments and the necessary professional background strategies, detailed strategies, including building energy and building modernisation strategies, with an opportunity to achieve significant energy savings in Hungary over the next four to five years. There is only one thing to pay attention to, and this has been formulated in committee, and this is to strengthen the accuracy and expansion of energy statistics, in order to measure the utilisation of energy efficiency investments and improvements to be made, the savings and energy savings that can be achieved in different areas through intervention by different technologies. In addition, there is a need for an extensive monitoring system, all the more so, as a significant part of EU funds can be used to reduce emissions from climate change, and a strong monitoring system needs to be set up to ensure accurate accounting. According to the majority position of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the bill is capable of fulfilling the regulatory tasks of state, municipal or economic energy efficiency. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-11-230	Thank you. The committee's minority opinion would be presented by two rapporteurs, but none of them are in the room, so we need to move on. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, which means that the opportunity lies with Mr Józsa István.
u2015-05-11-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are debating the amendments before the final vote, so I do not want to go back to what was said in the general debate, but we also have a lot of critical comments here. In the documents of the Legislative Committee... [[Noise, conversation in Jobbik's ranks.]] I would ask Mr President to try to encourage his fellow Members to lower their tone. I speak with a strong voice, but they're too close to me physically - not ideally, physically. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thus, the vast majority of the amendments contained in the legislative committee's materials only cover the improvement of spelling errors, technical specifications, wording clarifications, and minor clarification such as the mandatory presence of remote cooling everywhere, of course, where this is technically possible. The substance contains substantial changes in some points, in three points. Point 11 of the amending proposal states that when assessing the debt to government buildings subject to a 3 per cent annual renovation obligation, it is also necessary to examine how and how they can be connected to district heating. This is a very good addition, district heating is environmentally friendly, energy efficient, and if it fits well into the energy system, it can be a cheap heating mode, so it is advisable that government buildings are also connected to district heating. Point 17 of the amending proposal states that SMEs related to large enterprises and operating as partners do not need to send separate energy certifications to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office according to their energy situation, such as the ISO 50001 standard for the energy management system, if the large company has already sent this. This is a life-like proposal, meaning that it is enough for the large company to manage the energy audit administration, and the related smaller companies do not have to do this on their own, only as data to the related large enterprise. It's a correct amendment. Furthermore, the SME of the large enterprise does not have to carry out a mandatory energy audit or operate a standard-compliant energy management system if its final energy use is less than 5% of the total final energy consumption of the large enterprise, in Hungarian, the bill rightly focuses on the potential for large energy savings. Paragraph 40 states that if the Government intends to appoint the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to supervise the bodies, persons and activities covered by the Energy Efficiency Act and its implementing legislation, then it must be decided by a two-thirds majority of the Parliament. If this is not done, the bill and the whole concept should be thoroughly rewritten. According to my last information, neither we nor the other opposition parties can support this polarity part, which is due to certain government reservations on our part. With the changes in the TAB background, therefore, I think there is no problem in itself, and there are also parts in them that improve the bill. [[18.30]] What I would like to say and what we have said in the debate was also expressed in the minority opinion that the main problem with this bill is that it is extremely late and its content is little, to say, empty. It is too late because the deadline for the obligation to harmonise legislation expired already on 5 June 2014 and it is not simply due to compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation that we should be dealing with improving energy efficiency, but because this can increase security of supply, reduce our energy exposure, improve the competitiveness of our economy and increase the sustainability of the Hungarian economy. There is little in the submission, the content contained in the law, because the proposal contains powers for the government to define practically all the relevant specifics, calculations and targets. The Parliament accepts practically an almost empty frame, in Hungarian, the government still doesn't know what it wants, yet again the rush and appearances are happening. It can be noted that Government Resolution 1215 on certain government tasks needed to achieve energy savings was published in the Hungarian Gazette only on 17 April. It's interesting what points are in here from 1:00 to 7:00. Therefore, energy efficiency guidelines for policy measures under Article 7 ( 9) to (12) of the NGM and NGM should be developed by 31 May of this year, including the designation of the energy efficiency target and the regulatory, support, tendering and taxation measures necessary to achieve it, the demonstration methodology and monitoring. So he's not anywhere yet. Point 2 of this Government Decision is the METAR, the support scheme for renewable energy production. This should also be established by 31 May, but it has been discussed with professional organisations for four years. They're extremely behind, which is a missed energy saving over the past four years. This should clarify the possibilities for using the so-called ESCO-type financing and operation model, which is extremely necessary. I say this in a self-critical way that our panel renovation programme could not be more successful because one-third of the funding is too high for the population. The experience that residents cannot take on ESCO-type funding, in which the own contribution is up to 10 per cent, is our view that it could bring about an upturn in energy saving projects. Also by 31 May, the NFM should present the tasks of the National Energy Network, the results available and the operation of the network. There is not even this Hungarian energy network in the Moon, the profession has wanted this for years, it is very much waiting, but nothing can be seen from it. The Ministry of Development must keep the European Commission informed, but what they will also have to work on by 31 May. The Ministry of Development should measure the government energy saving measures implemented after 1 January of this year. We don't see that. Government proposals shall also include all energy efficiency impacts. This should all be decided by 15 December 2015. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President, I'll push you half a minute. Which means the government's still looking into it. [[Károly Kontra: Is there a new president? Dr. Gábor Staudt: How's this?]] has done nothing so far, the other Member States were ready in December 2013. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2015-05-11-232	How long the honourable Member may speak, it is up to the President to decide. [[Dr. István Józsa: But I was disturbed!]] It's okay. It's okay. No, thank God, 30 seconds. I give the opportunity to the next speaker, Mr István Ikotity.
u2015-05-11-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Most European countries treat energy efficiency as their own cheaply accessible and renewable energy sources. From the national economy's point of view, it does not matter whether we bring energy demand into line with supply by reducing energy consumption or increasing energy production, but the first solution typically costs much less and has much less harmful consequences. This energy efficiency improvement option is completely lacking in the minds of those on the government, too, from the Hungarian energy regulation. The Orbán government does not want to increase energy efficiency in Hungary, but it wants to increase energy production, and it does not care at all about the price at which this will be achieved. However, a Hungarian household consumes twice as much heating energy on average, and the Hungarian economy uses 1.5 times as much energy as the Austrian economy uses in proportion to GDP. That is why every year projections are drawn up that indicate an increase in energy demand, ignoring the fact that these forecasts are rebutted, so they do not want to adapt the power plant development plans to these air projections, and that is why they want to build a nuclear power plant to meet future energy needs, instead of focusing on increasing energy efficiency. But energy efficiency has huge untapped potential. If we look at international examples, in Denmark, the economy has grown by 70 percent since the 1980s without increasing energy consumption. The electricity market in Denmark, which is very energy efficient and increasingly renewable, is now the cheapest in Europe. It is not true, therefore, that it is only by increasing energy consumption that we can boost the economy, just as it is not true that the energy system based on energy efficiency and renewables will increase energy. But let's also look at domestic examples. According to an end-of-century study, there is a possibility of one and a half Paks of energy savings in the modernization of the Hungarian residential energy sector. We should not build any nuclear power plants if we learn to use energy at least as efficiently as Austria or Germany. According to the Hungarian Energy Efficiency Institute, by modernising all old household appliances, more precisely: by replacing them, we would gain more power than is currently produced by obsolete Paks blocks. What does the Hungarian government do instead? Everything is subject to the construction of an unnecessary nuclear power plant, bans wind power plants from the country and prevents the launch of programmes that could increase energy efficiency or provide them with small amounts of money. The purpose of the bill we are discussing now would be to adopt the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, but the real practical aim is to stop the infringement procedure that has been initiated for the abolition of EU legislation. In order to do this, you're writing a useless Patyomkin law. On the outside, it looks like it is taking over EU standards, but in reality it does not contain anything, as it does not have effective means of reducing energy consumption and meeting the general requirements. The essence of the EU Directive is the efficiency obligation for energy suppliers to achieve new savings for final consumers of 1.5 percent of the energy they sell each year. In Britain and France, where this obligation already exists in practice, energy suppliers support investment in energy efficiency in the general public at their own expense. For example, thermal insulation of homes or boiler change. This method is very effective. According to the calculations of the Hungarian Energy Efficiency Institute, it could create a source of energy efficiency modernisation of 100,000 homes every year in Hungary, which would save 50 petajoules by 2020. This is the production of a Paks reactor block. It is clear from the EU Directive that the obligation is addressed to energy suppliers, but there is no single word in Hungarian legislation about the efficiency obligation of energy suppliers, but instead it is only a general requirement, with a 1.5 per cent new savings per year at national level in the implementation period, which the government ensures is fulfilled. In other words, the law is addressed to the government, and no one can force service providers to support investments in energy efficiency. Moreover, the government is not obliged to do so because there are no deadlines or sanctions. However, there is a loophole, with a simple government decree, that rate can be reduced to a quarter. Thank you for your attention. [[18.40]]
u2015-05-11-234	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Staudt Gábor.
u2015-05-11-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I'll try to make a brief comment. We will abstain from voting because, on the one hand, we can agree with the aim of the law, of course, but, as my fellow opposition Members have said before me, unfortunately, we do not see the guarantees that this law will work well, and unfortunately, in many cases, we can see that there is indeed a solution to make a law, but whether it will actually work, the legislator has taken less care of this. On the other hand, I would like to point out what happened at the Legislative Committee because it was not very elegant, as far as the two-thirds pass is concerned. What happened was that the Economic Committee was appointed under Rule 55 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 55 of the bill. It stated that it contained a fundamental provision by a two-thirds vote and could therefore only be adopted. Before the Legislative Committee, when this proposal, i.e. the amendment of the Committee on Economic Affairs, was put on the table, I think the majority of the government felt that this would be a problem, because here, before the Parliament, this should be put to a two-thirds vote, and it might not go through. The solution, which was difficult for me to understand at the time, and since then it has been quite simply that the Committee voted against the amendment proposal of the Economic Committee, together with that passage, under Rule 55. Article 55 of the Law. He also took out §55 of the Act, citing that it was actually 55. § doesn't have to, and the law can be applied without it. At this stage, it was proposed by the authors that the section on the powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office should be supplemented by an additional point (g) in the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which would have said that the Agency would supervise it under the Energy Efficiency Act and the entities covered by this Act. For some reason, for codification reasons, this was put forward by the author, who in this case was Minister of National Development Miklós Seszták, so we are not talking about an individual proposal, we are talking about a ministerial proposal, where apparently the codification process has passed the proposal. For some reason, the codificators thought it was important to include this additional point in the Energy and Utility Regulatory Authority Act. After that, of course, this can be taken out, and it can be taken out just after the Economic Committee has found that this concerns a two-thirds regulation, but it is not very elegant and not very elegant with an amendment that actually states that it does not have to be in the law, so that it works without it. It was then that the Ministry of National Affairs did not do its job well - this is one of the versions - and put forward a proposal that was technically unjustified; it put forward this proposal that it should not actually have been included in the 55th passage. That's one of the options. Or the other option is that a two-thirds vote has been tried to avoid the whole section being cancelled and I would like to conduct the whole procedure on the basis of general authorisations. Of course, it is possible to continue a legal debate against vice, and I do not want to go deeper, because the Parliament's plenum may not even be the best place for this, but we have experienced this several times in the past, but it is certain and shows that there are operations taking place here at committee level that are not very elegant, and that is when I made our objections most politely. This should be recognised at the ministerial stage, or, if this did not work then, this proposal should be put to a two-thirds vote. That is all I wanted to say, and we believe that the proposal, although its objectives are eligible, does not solve what it sets as a goal, and what I have said here, with the exception of the two-thirds pass, the polarity point, has not succeeded in the end being too elegant, so we can only contribute with one abstention to the vote. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-236	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] If there is no intention to comment, the debate is closed, although there has not been a great debate so far. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] He says yes, Mr. Secretary of State has the opportunity.
u2015-05-11-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill 4285 in front of you has arrived today to conclude your debate. This bill was all - and a lot of thought was read out of these lines, which are not really there, and I will refer to it later -; there was good, bad, there was austerity, there was permit, but let us not forget the basic things. One of these things is that there is a directive, the EU Directive No 27 issued in 2012, which clearly states that it is necessary to transpose it into national regulatory frameworks. So far, eight EU Member States have done this in Europe. We want to be the ninth. With the adoption of the bill, we not only comply with the announcement to the European Commission, but Hungary thus indirectly contributes to some factors, economic factors, such as reducing primary energy consumption, reducing energy imports, and switching to energy security and more efficient energy management. Let us not talk about reducing the costs of final consumers, which will also improve industry's competitiveness and performance, either directly or indirectly. The bill makes cost-effective and professional energy audits available to all final users and, as a result of the authorisation of the directive, we are developing an internal system that is best suited for the Hungarian economy and Hungarian farmers. The fact that we wanted to achieve is that what is a mandatory element is raised, but we are creating a completely wide open, free of all constraints and obligations for both the population and companies and businesses that are farming in Hungary. An energy efficiency information website will be created, providing transparency, transparency and providing information to energy consumers to the extent that they become known in financial and legal frameworks. A category has been said today that the two-thirds part of the law is not very elegant. That's an interesting law. There is a faction in Parliament that one of its members stands up in the initial debate and says that we support the law. Then there will be a five-party negotiation, where, well, we will not support the law, and then we will be told that we are abstaining. I think that perhaps this is not elegant, not the legislation itself and its content. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Dr. Gábor Staudt: For you have changed it.]] The bill sets out energy efficiency figures for Hungary as a directive. One and a half percent end-use energy savings, that's 18 percent. This is the commitment that makes it mandatory for Hungary to operate in the accounts for the European Union. And what I miss about opposition contributions is two elements. One is the cost-benefit analysis. Let's not forget, both sides of what I'm saying, let's think about it. On the one hand, what is the most important thing for energy efficiency in the population? That he should pay as little as possible and save as much as possible. It's an incentive. The other element on the part of businesses: the only way to be competitive is to produce your product as cheaply as possible. [[18.50]] Therefore, the energy cost, which at the moment is the second to third cost, needs to be saved as much as possible. If we write this down specifically, we will make the same mistake as we did 25 years ago: non-functioning regulation. If, on the other hand, we give a broad opportunity and use competitiveness, for example, in the entrepreneurial sphere, I think that this is a good regulation. The second is the situation and role of the so-called alternative optimizers provided by the EU directives, which states that in the energy mix, each EU Member State compiles its own energy supply, whether at residential or entrepreneurial level. This possibility is reflected in this law. In English: those who want renewable energy, and we know that we have taken on the 14.65 percent renewable energy ratio, or those who want to save energy efficiency can do so, we do not tighten it up with this energy only, only with that energy type. There was a tightening up in 2008, and we all remember, if necessary, I'll say the numbers by heart, called PPP for municipalities. And the point is, it cost an energy investment about three times as much as it actually would have cost if we had given it more support. For this reason, the Hungarian Government believes that we will rather provide resources from EU development resources both in terms of own contribution and non-refundable support for energy efficiency investments for the general public and for businesses. We consider it better than PPP resources. As has been said, therefore, the legislative proposal makes a major contribution to achieving the so-called 20% target three times by 2020, including in energy efficiency, and to Hungary's compliance with the obligations arising from membership. I would add that together with the additional legislation - which is, of course, accessible and visible to anyone - we are creating a transparent, auditable and properly structured legal system. In the debate on the bill, I would like to conclude by thanking both the Committee on Sustainable Development and the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee for its work and for the meaningful comments that we have carried through the law in accordance with the original principles and objectives. Dear Parliament, In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill after the adoption of the summarised amendment, and thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-238	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place tomorrow. Next up is the 2011 CLXV on Civil Guard and Civil Guard. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Judge Márk, Richárd Hörcsik, and Imre Vas, MEPs have made their own motion T/3495. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the defence and police committee's proposal T/3495/9. and T/3495/10. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3495/12. T/3495/13. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-05-11-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/3495 at its meeting on 7 May. The 2011 CLXV on the Civil Guard and the Rules of Civil Guard. The Commission submitted a bill amending the law and a draft amendment and a summary report containing 26 yes and three abstentions, i.e. no vote against. The summarised amendment only contains the motion of the Legislative Committee, given that the motion of the Defence and Police Committee referred to by the President by the Legislative Committee is set out in Rule 42 of the House Rules. He found it contrary to point (b) of paragraph (b), i.e. overexpansive. The amending proposal contains a very significant proportion of codification, language positioning, technical clarifications, some 12 points dealing with such amendments; however, in substance, there are quite a few new elements that are worth mentioning. First of all, I would like to point out that, based on the experience of the last five years, the National Civil Service Association has taken on a very serious administrative burden in terms of coordination and other tasks, and therefore, in order to be more efficient and self-government-oriented, it has been justified that regional civil society associations also participate more effectively and more intensively in the implementation of certain tasks. This amendment therefore allows certain coordination and administrative activities to be carried out by the territorial civil society organisations, while at the same time ensuring the autonomy of territorial civil society organisations and their self-regulatory capacity at other points. Another very important and to be highlighted is what has been filtered from the recent decades of experience of civil society organisations, namely that citizens under the age of 18 have also been very keenly interested in the activities of the vigilante. Therefore, the amendment allows persons under the age of 18 to participate in the work of the Civil Guard under certain conditions and even to name this possibility as a new element, introducing the concept of the young vigilante and laying down certain rules for the operation of the young vigilantes. Another important and operational amendment is that, by regulating the operation of associations and civil society organisations, it introduces here the possibility for the main body to be the delegates' assembly instead of the general assembly. This will allow a significantly simpler and faster operating mechanism. Another important change is that the bill also settles the sanctions for ethical violations and the ways in which ethical violations are resolved. In conclusion, we can therefore say that we can trust that, if the bill is adopted, it can do even more effective and effective work, both by the National Civil Guard Association and by the Territorial Civil Guard Associations, and, of course, by involving individual civil society organisations more effectively, for the sake of the main objective of increasing the security of citizens. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-240	I'm going to ask you if you'd like to answer from the government, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the opportunity.
u2015-05-11-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government supports the proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-242	I'm sorry, I changed the order. Now I'm asking the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. All right. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mátyás Firtl, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee.
u2015-05-11-243	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 22 April 2015, the Defence and Police Committee discussed the 2011 CLXV on the rules of civil protection and civil protection activities. T/3495. Bill No. 1. In the detailed debate, the rapporteur was present in addition to the members of the committee, represented by the National Citizens' Association and the Ministry of the Interior. The amendments received by the bill were discussed in detail by the committee, together with the experts, and we also discussed the amendments at the committee's meeting. [[19.00]] The detailed debate was closed by unanimous vote by the committee, followed by an amendment proposal or a Commission report, as the Legislative Committee has now mentioned in detail, and I would not comment on them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government side.]]
u2015-05-11-244	I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, who will present the minority opinion of the committee.
u2015-05-11-245	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In the context of the bill, which is also supported by the Civil Guard, which lies before us - on which the latter's quality, as well as the support of the vigilantes themselves, has been revealed here in the parliamentary debate - we have made it clear in the general debate and in the Commission's detailed debate that, if it is acceptable to the parties concerned, we will support it. We, or myself, have tabled amendments to the bill on behalf of the MSZP, which, to my knowledge, are a very old problem for the vigilantes, and we wanted to provide a solution - such as the abolition of the company car tax or the possibility of replacing the official ID free of charge - but in some respects they have indeed gone beyond the proposal. From a different point of view, I would like to mention that Lajos Kósa, the chairman of the committee himself, said and promised that the committee would return to these questions, namely the issue of the company car tax, within the framework of the budgetary and tax laws to be submitted soon, because he himself, as a politician in Debrecen, knows precisely from the vigilantes operating there that this is a pressing problem and is very important. We will wish to take the President's voice on this issue, and I think the committee will be a partner in this. Fidesz amendments have also been received. He wanted to break the very order of the bill, which this proposal will establish, along with one of the partial interests, that only one Citizen's Association could operate in each county, so that they could keep order and keep order between the organizations, which he wanted to upset in the relationship between Budapest and Pest counties. The practical reason for this is likely to have been the financing problems of the committee meeting, namely that in Budapest the associations are financed a little better than in Pest county. But thanks to the good Lord, along with the arguments from the civil wardens and the Fideszes-KDNP politicians, these amendments were rejected by the committee after our proposal. In addition to the other Fidesz amendments, the Legislative Committee did so at a later stage with regard to proposals for amendments such as the last-minute amendment on the Horse Question and other issues which were apparently not agreed and prepared. The only reason I mention this again is because it was one of those rare moments where the fidesz majority rejected them rather than now adopting unprepared and conflicted rules. So, at the end of the committee meeting and the TAB meeting, we practically got back to the original text, so I am happy to report - if anyone is interested here in this Chamber or outside - that both the MSZP and I know that the other opposition parties will support and vote for the bill in this respect. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-05-11-246	Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to the speakers who have signed up, which means that the opportunity lies with Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2015-05-11-247	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The legal predecessor of today's Civil Guard was established in 1991, then it combined 223 associations with some 10,000 members. This organization has now expanded to around 2,000 associations, with over 50,000 members. This development also shows that the Hungarian militia has become a determining factor in public crime prevention over a quarter of a century. The vigilante will complete police activity and play a major role in strengthening public security. Their sacrifice and voluntary activity made them all the citizens of the settlements, in whom the local population trusts, grateful for their work. On behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, I would also like to thank you for your voluntary work and wish you every success in your further activities. Ladies and gentlemen, The formation, renewal and consolidation of the quality vigilante has occurred in recent years, because the associations have stabilised, the membership of the Civil Guard has been completed, the membership has been renewed, and the number of citizens with a civil guard pass exceeds 50,000 today. The development and positive perception of the Civil Guard clearly shows that there is a need for the activities of local citizens, who work closely with the police, to protect local interests and public security. The current bill is intended to renew the legal framework for vigilante activity. The bill maintains the social organisational nature of the Civil Guard, and accordingly it lays down the necessary conditions as a result of the definition of the system of civil guard organisation and the nature of their activities. In recent years, the National Civil Service Association has had excessive coordination and administrative tasks, so it has been justified for the effective functioning of the National Civil Guard Associations to take part in the various tasks. According to the bill, the territorial civil society associations would take over certain coordinating and administrative tasks, thereby reducing the burden of the National Citizens' Association; and the proposal ensures the autonomy of the civil society organisations and their ability to regulate themselves. A new element appears in the bill the concept of a young vigilante, which settles the situation of young people between the ages of 14 and 18 who wish to participate in the activities of the vigilante. The bill would also create a simpler and faster decision-making mechanism and renew the system that can be applied in the event of an ethical breach. In 2014, the Civil Guard received HUF 1.2 billion in budget support from the government, which also shows that the government is satisfied with the work of the Civil Guard and encourages them to develop further. The motor park of the Civil Guard is constantly being renewed, and with further support our government is developing the necessary equipment for the tasks of the Civil Guard. Overall, the government is particularly supportive of the civil guard, which is organised on a voluntary basis to carry out the public security tasks of the municipalities. The purpose of the association's activities is to promote public policy and public security in Hungary, public participation in border surveillance, environmental and nature protection, prevention and management of emergencies, social crime prevention and strengthening trust between municipalities and the population, and the protection of local public security in the Community. Its members are civilians who, in agreement with the principles of the vigilante movement, work in the interest of the community in the interest of legality and respect for human rights, voluntarily working for a common purpose, because it is in the interest of all of us to improve public security. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill, which will project further progress in the organization of the Civil Guard, and I would ask all of us to thank you once again, with the support of this amendment, for the work that our vigilantes have done so far. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government side. Sándor Szabó applauds.]]
u2015-05-11-248	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó in the line of ordinary speakers.
u2015-05-11-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, over the last 20 years, the Civil Guards have made a significant contribution to safeguarding the public security of many settlements, and I must say that they have provided invaluable assistance to police officers serving in the public domain in the performance of their duties. We must therefore say that the MSZP expresses its appreciation to all vigilantes, to all civil society organisations who, without regreting their own time or energy, are indeed active in maintaining public order. [[19.10]] The MSZP can support any bill that meets the requirements of the rule of law, which has been properly agreed with civil society organisations and enjoys their agreement. At the general debate of the law, civil society organisations were here, and they said that otherwise the consultation had taken place, and they themselves supported the proposal, and we can support it in this way. I would like to draw attention to two things, one of which I would like my fellow Member to say more, which is the issue of corporate cars in tax matters. On the other hand, we also had a proposal that the House does not want to deal with at the moment, but I would also like to say that, if possible, we should return to the fact that if the vigilantes will have to obtain or receive a moral certificate in the near future, we should consider the possibility that obtaining a moral certificate itself will not cost any money to the vigilantes. So it should be free of charge to obtain a moral certificate. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] And indeed, the biggest item that vigilantes have to manage beyond their operation is fuel costs, clothing costs. It would be good and ideal for the municipalities to be able to help the civil society organisations from their own budgets, but we know very well that we can see very well that the municipalities that are otherwise in a difficult situation do not have a great opportunity to do so, as this would be an optional task. However, let me be proud to say here that there are 14 civil society organisations in the city of Szeged, and the city of Szeged contributes 12 million HUF each year to the operation of these civil society organisations. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-05-11-250	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2015-05-11-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll talk briefly. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation, and anyone who thinks that these are empty phrases that all politicians have to say, then I think that my fellow politician should go to a civil warden assembly that I go to every year, listen to the numbers he hears, for example, how many thousands of hours in the service. In order to protect our dream, if you will, at the expense of their own free time, and as my fellow Member, Mátyás Firtl, pointed out, because it is in the statutes of all civil society organisations that they do this, of course, without remuneration, at the expense of their free time, for the sake of the common good and public security. So I think that when we hear these huge numbers, who have completed three, two, four thousand hours, of course, sometimes with our police officers and sometimes without police officers, then I think that in each case we must express our appreciation and wish them good strength and health in order to continue this work. The question that needs to be addressed is that when they are not on foot but on a motor vehicle, the company car tax applies to this car. Well, I was talking a little bit longer in my intro, because we can see that we're getting a lot of advantage, and they can't take any advantage. After all, there is no basic rule that they, the vigilantes, would receive any advantage, any financial benefit, in order to get anything for their work in their own free time. Therefore, I think that it is right to think that this car should come out with which they are serving, or that I, as an opposition representative, can afford to use this car as an act which may not belong to their duty, but which obviously contributes to the common good in any way. And I think it needs to get out of the company's car tax. I just wanted to draw attention to the very legitimate appreciation of the vigilante, that I would ask the government parties, so that when we plan the budget now, they should take this into account, so that, in no case, the company car tax is not a burden to the vigilantes. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-11-252	I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, the debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Vas Imre, as rapporteur, if he wishes to comment. It says yes. The opportunity is yours, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-253	Thank you very much for the floor. On behalf of the authors, thank you for your support. I thank the vigilantes for their activities so far, and we would like to wish them good work, safe work. For the period following the entry into force of the law, I also encourage young people between 14 and 18 years of age to apply to the community of vigilantes in their home if they are interested in this activity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-11-254	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. On 12 May, Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been known to everyone, it has been three weeks, three weeks since the heightened atmosphere among nurses and health professionals, which the whole country has now experienced and is fully evident to everyone. The public language also calls it a "supplier spring" or "supplier spring," and almost no day goes by without any indication that politics, public life, newspapers, or people consider the situation of nurses and workers themselves as a collector's concept and the situation of these persons to be a very important topic. We can safely say, as Jobbik said, that the case of nurses lasts after 24 hours, because there are such unsustainable conditions in health care, wages, working conditions and shortcomings that are constantly infecting and infecting this area. The starting point is therefore: we are faced with a general state of affairs, the general state of wages being extremely low, and the extremely poor state of working conditions and the lack of supplies. As far as wages are concerned, it is clear that most of the nurses belong to a layer of society, which is not only the lower layer of the middle class, but also the range of the detaching social layers. It shows their position very well that these workers make less than HUF 10-20,000 more than the minimum wage, and this is, in effect, approaching the Hungarian minimum of living. In terms of wages, the situation is even more striking if we look at it in an international context. And we can also see well, and you can also see that wages have not improved at all in the past year and in recent years, in health professionals, or in nurses. In fact, we can say that the newly raised government package of 15.8 billion could only bring a gross increase in monthly wages of HUF 9,000. Working conditions have also been described several times, unfortunately, under conditions, psychological or physical conditions that are unworthy of the profession, and which at the end results in a burnout disease, a serious strain in which workers lose practically the most effective part of their work. Not to mention that very often, and this has also been said several times, 40 patients get a nurse, many times they have to go through an entire night shift like this. As far as the issue of replacement is concerned, virtually dozens of schools where health training has been established have been discontinued or adapted in recent years. In Budapest alone, five secondary schools and a school in the countryside, such as Borsod, have ceased. There was a response to all of these, and the corresponding response was the 12 points of the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber. They said they wouldn't give in to these 12 points. Well, you can't let that happen. They have proposed and raised such things as a sectoral strategy, the elimination of deficit professions in the field of health professionals. [[19.20]] This meant that what is one of the most important crises in the supply chain is that there is no suitable student, student, nurse or instructor who can help with sectoral vocational training. But they also said and demanded that the professional career model be introduced as soon as possible. Perhaps it would be worth having a separate day of debate in Parliament about how realistic and how appropriate these demands are. So there's got to be a way to solve this situation. Jobbik offers a solution to this, and it has created or created a proposal for a resolution with which this situation can be resolved very aggressively, very effectively, but very honestly, without costing or costing taxpayers a lot, if you like, a very minimal budgetary impact. Jobbik would like to focus on three areas with this resolution proposal, and they all belong to the public administration. That is why we recommend to the existing plenary of Parliament, who are still here, but also in the speech before the agenda tomorrow, the proposal for a resolution that focuses on three main areas and includes the establishment of the national institution of the head nurse, so that there should be a national nurse in the system who can answer the system's human resources problems. On the other hand, within the Ministry, a care department should be set up where basically all professional questions concerning nurses can be found at a credible source. But make sure there's a good supply. These are the demands that Jobbik can offer and draw everyone's attention to the demonstration that will be held tomorrow and ask everyone to stand next to the health professionals without political affiliation and thus give the crowd, the voice of the crowd, the voice of the people that the government needs to hear. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-256	I would ask my fellow Members to respect the time frame. To speak after the next agenda, István Ikotity, Member of the Council, came forward:. How does the government intend to reduce the heat pollution of the Danube Paks? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A public hearing on the expected environmental impacts of the planned nuclear power plant expansion was held in Paks. According to expert opinions, the most tangible consequence will be the heat load of the Danube: the cooling water of the new blocks will be introduced into the river, and the Danube will be heated as a result. This is expected to result in an 11 - kilometer - long hot tub coming down from Paks to Fajszi in the river. It doesn't seem too alarming at first hearing, but the Danube is a living system, where the heat balance and the ecological imbalance with it can have unfathomable consequences. Previous research shows that the Danube's wildlife can withstand a sudden temperature variation of 11 degrees, and the cooling water of the two new blocks will cause a warming effect of 8 degrees based on model calculations. However, there is another important limit, the temperature of the river's water cannot rise above 30 degrees, because this is how much water - living organisms can endure. And that's just an average value, because, for example, for phytoplankton, it's a tolerance of 28, or 25 degrees for migratory clams. According to the data of the long-term time series, the average summer temperature of the Danube water has been increasing for decades, and the average in August is close to 25 degrees. During summer periods, the river obviously does not tolerate an additional 8 degree increase in water temperature with the introduction of heated cooling water. This was also well known by professionals who wrote preparatory studies for the international investment tender in 2009 under the Lévai project, which is why they considered that they would not have fresh water, but cooling towers for the new blocks. Alternatively, proposals were made to balance the water level of the Danube, i.e. to create a water escape under Paks. Currently, in August and September, the water yield is sometimes only 700-800 cubic metres per second, but the water demand for cooling is 232 cubic metres per minute. When the water is so low, cooling from the water of the Danube is clearly unsolvable or leads to an inevitable ecological disaster. At present, the designers expect to reload the power plant, reduce its performance, or even shut it down until there is more water in the Danube. However, all economic calculations were made for 95 per cent utilisation: new blocks, other than mandatory maintenance, must operate on a continuous basis with maximum performance, otherwise they will never produce repayments for the gigantic foreign exchange loan they have received for their construction. The operators will therefore have two choices: they will give up economic operation for the sake of the river, or they will sacrifice the Danube to avoid financial bankruptcy. For those who are not affected by ecological arguments, we must also say that this is not only an environmental issue but also a safety issue. In summers with low water levels, there have been several times before that the power plant did not have enough cooling water, because the Danube medre is too low compared to the cooling water canals. There was a month when all the diesel pumps in the country were working on Paks, or they should have shut down the reactors. And after 2026 not four, but six reactors should be supplied with cooling water. Here they are playing a gamble not only with the environment, but also with security, who are planning this investment. I would also like to say that I am a resident of Baja here in Parliament, and Baja is the largest Hungarian city south of Paks, which is located on the bank of the Danube, and Baja is also directly affected by these influences. A few weeks ago, fishing and fishing opportunities were often mentioned among Parliament's walls. Well, this will be very noticeable here, we think, in the next period, because it is expected that the fish stocks of the Danube will change significantly, because so many native Danube species will not be able to withstand such a heat load. So this will have a tangible and tangible effect. Obviously, I am in a special situation, because there are very few towns near the Danube south of Paks. Obviously, the situation would be quite different if such a nuclear power plant were north of Budapest, i.e. in line with the direction of the Danube River from Budapest. However, that is not the case, so, unfortunately, our voice is quite quiet. I trust that the authorities will hear and think of a solution that does not expose the Danube to such danger. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-11-258	Speaking after the next agenda Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the European Parliament, asked for a speech: the Hungarian swallow population could disappear completely within years. What can we do? It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-05-11-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Within five years there will be no swallows in Hungary - this is the title of the article of a Hungarian NGO published recently. The news that the swallows will be completely gone by 2020 in our country, I think many of us have a terrible vision. It has long been known that the disappearance of species and the loss of biodiversity affect not only the species we are talking about, but also humans, mankind. The disappearance of swallows not only means that our country's bird fauna is poor, but also a sign of negative changes in Hungary and globally. These changes, such as the increase in extreme weather conditions, can also be seen on our own skin, which has a serious impact on, if nothing else is mentioned, agriculture and, through it, on the food of mankind. In addition, two sub-family members belong to the family of swallows, with a total of twenty genders, but in Hungary only the smoke swallows, the millar swallows and the party swallows are native. Climate change and human activity, on the other hand, completely destroy the survival chances of all three species of swallows. The number of miller swallows decreased by 65 percent, smokebrushes decreased by 44 percent, and the coastal swallows decreased by 30 percent in the last ten years alone. Of course, there is no concrete reason behind these brutal figures, a set of important factors, the most important of which is the conversion of habitats and climate change. In the case of habitat transformation, I must mention in particular a significant reduction in livestock farming and a drastic reduction in nesting sites. In the case of climate change, the said extreme weather and the expansion of Sahara year after year, as these species are wintering south of Sahara, Central and South Africa. This means that millions of individuals will have negative effects at the same time that will lead to their destruction, and this cannot be replaced by the returning stock that exists back home, as the conditions that would be able to compensate for such losses are no longer in place. An important factor is the disappearance of land use close to ancient nature, and the forms of farming are no longer suitable for the existence of a large number of these species of birds. As I have already said, the main issue here is the reduction in animal support. [[19.30]] Smokebrush is the first species I would like to mention, on top of which it lays open mud nests, mainly in stables or parts of agricultural buildings protected from rain. It is therefore strongly linked to livestock farming. From this and from what I have just said, it is understandable why this species has been repressed to such a degree. In addition, it is important to mention as a risk immediate human destruction and disruption, exceptional weather conditions in nesting areas, migration, wintering and food problems. Smokebugs who like rural environments drink the chance that in recent decades livestock farming has collapsed in our country, even worse, that people cannot tolerate swallows either in the countryside or in the city, knocking down nests, installing thorns under the floors of buildings so that they can't settle back. Where are the times when farmers even boasted to their neighbors about how many swallows they had, say, in the stables? The millar's nests are located in an urban environment, in the panels of non-rare cities, protected from rain. Here too, an important risk is the dietary problem, and in the urban environment it is increasingly difficult to find mud to build a nest, and in this context human interference should be mentioned in the same way, migration, wintering and nutrition problems. On the other hand, the third species, in a slightly different way, digs its nest into 30-80 centimeters long nests, river banks, vertical sides of sand mines, nests, and thousands of couples can be counted in one suitable place. I've had my share of this natural miracle. Unfortunately, we do not know the exact wintering area; here too, the primary risks have already been mentioned. It is also important to mention the increasing extent of the various predators, fox, raccoon and wandering rat. Of the three species of swallows, however, the coastal swallow is most at risk, with a reduction of 20 percent per year. But what can we do, what can the state do? I believe that decades of bird-defense experience is available in our country, namely the 21st century. There are many enthusiastic, helpful civilians, open businesses, municipalities, family and condominiums. The state should start a coordinated series of steps, and I would like us to prove together that Hungary does not want to be a swallow-free zone. Let us work together so that future generations will not only be able to learn about the swallows that are so characteristic of the Hungarian landscape from photographs. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-11-260	Ladies and gentlemen, Member Sándor Szabó applied for a final statement after the last agenda: Is this how the system of national cooperation works? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-11-261	I would like to say to the minutes, although my fellow members of the Government are no longer in the Chamber, but I think it is important to summarize how the renaming of the Ságvár High School took place in Szeged, how the national cooperation systems of Fidesz and the government work. Over the past few months, the Ministry of Human Resources in Szeged's efforts to rename the Ságvári Endre Practitioner High School triggered intense opposition and debate. Many former and current academic students, celebrities, artists and actors protested that the name of the high school in Szeged had been changed. On one of the social portals, over 11,000 people tried to protect sarcasticism. The general opinion was that this year the 60-year-old institution worked hard for its reputation, and it is not possible to put the Ságvári High School after another name overnight. As a Szegedian, I saw it and see it today. The name of Ságvár High School was indeed a brand in both the city and the country. One of the best high schools in the country, with hard work, excellent intellectual achievements and education, under that name, has achieved the result in Hungarian public education over the past half century, for which it is considered the 27th most effective institution in high school rankings, among rural secondary schools. That is why I myself protested and asked the Ministry questions about the real reason for the renaming. The Ministry's position was that it did not actually have any discretion. The situation is against the law, so the institution must be renamed, said State Secretary Bence Rétvári earlier. According to the law, the name of a person who has played a role in XX should not be included in the names of public spaces and institutions. He played a leading role in the foundation, construction or maintenance of authoritarian political systems of the century. Well, it's not true for Ságvári because he died early, and he couldn't have played such roles. If there is any doubt about a name, the position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences should be sought. However, since there are no detailed rules for this, the President of the Academy has issued a regulation on the examination of names. However, after several members of the Academy were sick of the Ministry's constant reference to them in the context of the renaming, they expressed their views on supporting the autonomy of local communities and will initiate the amendment of the relevant legislative environment of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. After that, more than 2,000 people marched to the streets protesting the renaming in a peaceful torching procession. At the end of the march, a petition was handed over to the government office, in which the Ministry was asked to refrain from renaming. The interesting fact of the case is that a student who had been attending the Ságvári Endre Practitioner High School has carefully examined the laws closely associated with the symbols of authoritarianism and found that in fact the practice schools and schools of universities are not subject to this legislation. The Law on Higher Education, which was changed last year, states that the university that maintains the institutions can decide on the name, but they are not actually bound by law. At the same time, the minister in charge of the Ministry of Maintenance of the University intervened in the decisions of the university, because the decision to change the name was in his jurisdiction. Of course, there is no obligation on the wallet to rename the schools, but in the case of Ságvári, they did so despite the protest and petition. According to a social psychologist, the name is the most fundamental part of identity, and it is therefore unacceptable to change it by power. Forced to change such a name is nothing but to show off strength. It has a symbolic meaning to show that I can do that. I think that in 2015 the Ministry in education and higher education would not be the most important task in Hungary to decide on renaming. I think there are enough problems with the opaque and now failing KLIK, funding education and higher education, eliminating higher education and many more of these things that I could keep going on and on about, where I could explain its intention to act much more effectively than the government does in relation to renaming. I mean, there are a lot of shortcomings here that you could make up for. To sum up, we can say that we have here a perfect example, a perfect case that shows how the government, the national cooperation system of Fidesz, works. At the request of a small town of 11,000 people, the government ignored the protests of a small town of 11,000 people, even though it would have been a matter of good intentions and will to accept the opinion of a local community. But the Fidesz government doesn't have that in mind. There is only an aggressive and arrogant force policy for him along his own interests. The lack of social consultations characterizes their decisions, so work is done in legislation, so work is done in Parliament. The style is the man himself, says the saying, but sometimes it is hardly more than a vile vessel in which the bitter medicine can be given to the world. And it makes me wonder, too, that teenagers don't usually listen to the songs their parents say they're out of style. I think the style of Fidesz is running out. Finally, let me conclude with the opinion of a parent: they can force us to do anything, we can accept it with a smile; we will just continue to call the institution as we want, and it is only a matter of time before we win: two weeks or two years. Thank you. [[Attila Mesterházy, applause: That's right.]]
u2015-05-11-262	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, and we will resume our meeting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. The meeting's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:38 p.m.]]
