u2015-11-05-0	Ladies and gentlemen, The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching this meeting. The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. General debate on the amendment of law and other procedural and judicial laws until closure. The government referral is T/6980. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-05-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. In everyday life, various advanced infocommunication tools and modern technologies are gaining ground. There is a natural need for these new forms of communication to appear in some way in areas that have a significant impact on people's lives. Such is also the area of justice, where the aim is to communicate with the court as widely as possible and by electronic means in as many cases as possible. During the civil trial, the provisions governing electronic contact were incorporated into the provisions of the Civil Procedure Act as early as 2009. The legislator, seeing that longer time is required to build up IT applications and obtain the necessary knowledge, has repeatedly changed the date of introduction of electronic communications. The deadline for the introduction of mandatory electronic communications on 1 July 2015 was last amended by the Honourable Parliament on 1 January 2016. The Civil Procedure Act already contains a number of requirements for electronic communications. These provisions shall specify, inter alia, in which case electronic contact is possible and in which case it is mandatory and provide for special provisions for electronic communication. The purpose of the bill before you is to clarify, clarify and expand the rules of electronic contact in civil proceedings on the basis of IT and technical possibilities for a smooth start. I also think it is important to draw attention to the fact that the use of electronic communications in the field of justice is not a domestic feature; this is an integral consequence of the development of the European Union's law and its approach to the role of law. The European Union is committed to implementing the electronic procedure in administrative and judicial procedures and in administration. Electronic communication provides a number of new opportunities for both the procedural and the procedural users, which can ultimately lead to cost savings and provide faster procedures and effective enforcement. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to briefly describe the main points of the regulation on electronic communications. The bill clarifies the existing rules of civil procedure on electronic communications. According to this, they can communicate electronically with the court using the electronic contact, the identification and the general form filling service, i.e. the PAY form submission support service. For regulated electronic administration services available and connected with the system of the National Court of Justice, this actually means contact with the customer gate or with the office gate. The general definition used by the bill provides for the possibility that, if other means of identification and communication are developed later, the parties may act by using them. The bill sets out the scope of electronic contacts more clearly than the provisions of the Civil Procedure Act in force. The bill makes electronic contact mandatory for the party acting with the legal representative, in accordance with the current rules. Natural persons acting without a legal representative can still choose to communicate by electronic means, so they are not obliged to do so. The rules in force only provide for the concept of legal representative in respect of compulsory legal representation, and therefore the bill defines who is a legal representative in the course of electronic contacts. For the purposes of mandatory electronic communications, the same category of persons should be regarded as legal representatives as in the case of compulsory legal representation - guaranteeing that the scope of legal representatives who are entitled to the compulsory legal representation is not excluded from the electronic administration. The bill makes it clear that, in the context of mandatory electronic communications, economic operators established in Hungary should communicate electronically with the court. If they act with a legal representative, their legal representative and, if no legal representative is involved, the entity's legal or organisational representative shall have the opportunity to do so through the customer's door. In the case of public authorities, the bill clarifies that they are obliged to have electronic contact even if they are not involved in the proceedings as an economic entity and not as a defendant in the administrative proceedings, but as other parties to the lawsuit. In the case of public authorities and entities which have or may have an office gate, the regulation also provides for the possibility of maintaining contact with the court by means of an office gate instead of a customer gate, at their choice. However, parallel use of the two means of contact is not possible. The bill also extends the scope of those responsible for electronic contact with the prosecutor, who fulfils this obligation through the Office gate of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, the parties obliged to make electronic communications or those who opt for electronic communications are, as a rule, in contact with the court using their customer gate or office gate. In view of the fact that access to the customer gate is an exclusive right, the bill provides for the possibility of overthrowing the presumption of service. However, it is only possible to overthrow an opinion if it has not been able to exercise its exclusive access to the service storage space for reasons other than the applicant's own fault. The bill also sets out how to communicate electronically with the court in the event that more than one person is entitled to represent him. In order to ensure the functionality of the delivery system, the bill also provides for the submission of large-scale electronic submissions in instalments. It is defined as the legal consequence of a breach of electronic contact that the application is rejected without issuing a subpoena and the nullity of the declaration contained in the other pleadings. In addition, the imposition of a fine shall constitute an additional penalty in the event of a breach of the obligations imposed. These legal consequences are intended to facilitate the proper functioning of electronic communications. In addition to mentioning justified exceptions to the main rule, the bill lays down specific provisions for the delivery and digitisation of legal proceedings for judicial review of the administrative decision and for the modification of the property protection decision. The need for these provisions arises from the specific nature of these actions. According to this, the applicant may submit the application only to the body which has taken the first administrative decision in the event of a judicial challenge to the administrative decision or, in the case of the estate protection decision, to the notary which has taken the decision. [[9.10]] Finally, in the context of electronic communication, allow me to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the following. The bill lays down transitional provisions which provide for the obligation to make electronic contacts in a system of proceedings for judicial review of the administrative decision and for the change of the property protection order, as well as for proceedings following the order for payment procedure. Under the rules, the rules on mandatory electronic communications should apply in cases in which the main proceedings, such as the administrative case, start after 1 January 2016. The transitional provisions shall ensure that the obligations for the relevant categories of law apply gradually and not at the same time in all cases already pending. The transitional provisions will also help to reduce the number of cases where electronic contacts and paper-based contacts are published at the same time. The mandatory electronic communications provisions of the Civil Procedure Act shall apply to other lawsuits when the lawsuit was opened after 1 January 2016. The bill also ensures consistency in the subject matter of mandatory electronic communication, between the Civil Procedure Act and other laws. Allow me to switch to the section of the bill, which includes the rules on distance listening, and briefly give an overview of its main content, once the regulation on electronic communications has been presented. The rules in force in the Civil Procedure Act do not yet allow parties and other parties to be heard or interrogated, including witnesses and their experts, to be heard remotely. At the same time, this option significantly facilitates the hearing of persons whose appearance at the designated place of negotiation would only result in significant difficulties or disproportionately high additional costs. The bill therefore sets out the rules for hearing and interrogating by means of a closed telecommunications network. A hearing by means of a closed telecommunications network could be ordered by the court for precisely the reasons set out above if the appearance of the party or other person to be heard at the court's seat would result in significant difficulties or disproportionate additional costs, or if it appears appropriate, in particular if it accelerates the conduct of the proceedings. Hearing by a closed telecommunications network may take place either in another court or in a room made available to another body having the conditions necessary to ensure the operation of the closed telecommunications network. During the distance hearing, the directness of the connection between the hearing and the place of the personal interview and the place of residence of the person heard shall be ensured by the motion picture and the sound transmission device. In order to ensure the application of the guarantee rules, the bill requires that, during the distance hearing, participants present at the hearing should be able to see the person heard and all persons present at the same time as the person being heard in the room set up to be heard by means of a closed distance communication network. In addition, technical conditions should be established to ensure that all points of the room at the location of the remote hearing are visible. The person to be heard in a room for hearing via a closed telecommunications network should also be able to follow the course of the hearing. There is no court staff at the location of the remote hearing, the identification is carried out by visual transmission. In addition, the identity data will be compared with the data contained in the personal data and address records of the public authority, with access to the register. The bill contains specific rules for identification in procedures for judicial review of asylum decisions, as in these cases the persons heard do not always have an identity document due to the specific circumstances. They shall therefore be identified by recording, at the beginning of the hearing and at the end of the hearing, the name, place of birth, date of birth and the name of the mother given to verify the identity of the person heard. In addition, as part of the identification, the information communicated shall be compared by the court with the information provided in the official proceedings. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is also remedying a failure to comply with fundamental law. The Constitutional Court stated that the National Assembly caused a failure to comply with the basic law in connection with the initiation of a preliminary ruling procedure governed by the Civil Procedure Act. In the view of the Constitutional Court, the ground of non-law exists because the provisions cited do not include that the court must also decide by a formal decision, i.e. an order, on the rejection of an application for a preliminary ruling. In addition, the law does not provide that the grounds for refusal must be justified by the court's decision at the latest. However, the aim is to eliminate the omission by supplementing the Civil Procedure Act in accordance with the bill. The bill before you also complements the rules of civil procedure. The purpose of this is to ensure that legal proceedings for damages caused by public authority and for damages caused by violations of public authority may be brought before a court of equal jurisdiction. The bill therefore provides for the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice to bring proceedings for the payment of damages for violations of personal rights caused by the exercise of public authority. In addition, by amending the Act on notaries, the bill lays down the rules for the appointment of a notary acting instead of a notary prevented by the procedure. In view of all this, I recommend that the bill be taken to the attention of honourable Members, asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-05-2	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Róbert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-05-3	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Madam and State Secretary, Lords! Fellow Members! The bill before us is another step towards speeding up court proceedings and effective justice. The objective of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association in 2010 was clearly to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, while respecting the independence of the judiciary. We are convinced that the effectiveness of justice is a guarantee of the rule of law and cannot be talked about a rule of law without effective justice. The bill before us, as Mr Secretary of State has said, is primarily aimed at amending the civil procedure, and there are two fundamental reasons for that. The Government took a decision on 7 May this year, namely 1295/2015. In its decision No 1 on the need to ensure infrastructure conditions for mandatory electronic communications, it is necessary to establish by the courts until 31 December 2015, so that the courts also need to prepare the conditions for electronic communications. For this reason, there is a need to amend the civil procedure. Another important reason for this amendment is that the 2015 LXXI. Law 18 The Parliament amended the civil procedure, according to which, after 1 January 2016, electronic contacts are mandatory for persons acting with legal representatives in civil proceedings, as well as for economic entities. [[9.20]] The Parliament has decided that electronic contact with natural persons will still not be mandatory if there is no legal representative in the lawsuit. The essential elements of the legislative amendment before us, for which the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the bill and asks for its support, are the following. Electronic litigation will become mandatory for the parties acting with legal representatives and for the entities involved. The organisational and legal representative shall be identified by means of the so-called customer gate identification of the natural persons currently available, representing the parties, and, after this identification, the digitalised documents shall be served through the customer gate in the lawsuit. In the case of public administrations, electronic contact in administrative proceedings is possible at the so-called office gate of the body instead of the person representing the body. In civil and administrative proceedings where a prosecutor acts as a legal entity exercising the rights of a party, he shall be obliged to communicate electronically. The electronic contactee will be obliged to digitise and preserve paper-based documents. The court will be obliged to digitise the submissions received on paper in five days. A service presumption is also attached to the delivery to the customer gate or to the office gate, which is a presumption that can be overturned. The application and other pleadings shall be submitted in packages of a size which can be accepted safely and without injury by the service system, and, in the case of a package of e-files of several pieces, the application or pleading shall be deemed to have arrived at the court at the time specified by proof of receipt of the last instalment. In some exceptional cases, electronic service will not be compulsory: in administrative proceedings, the first service of documents to the defendant, in the case of a paper-based presentation of the document in the case of evidence, in the case of a party acting with a legal representative, the party has the option to withdraw the mandate of the legal representative and to notify it to the court. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Ab-decision found that there was a failure to comply with the Constitution and called on the legislator to eliminate the decision of the court by a formal decision or order in the proceedings to initiate the preliminary ruling procedure in the event of the rejection of the application. The amendment is also contained in this bill and is clearly settled. The bill, as Mr Secretary of State has described in detail, regulates the civil rules of so-called distance hearing. This is also a major speeding-up institution in the civil suit. The bill states that the lawsuits for the payment of damages for the violation of personal rights caused by the exercise of public authority fall within the jurisdiction of the court in the future. Dear House, In addition, some other legislation is part of this amendment. In order to ensure the continuous provision of notaries services, the 1991 XLI on notaries is justified. In addition to the Act, which allows the President of the Regional notary chamber to designate the notary in place of the notary in case of obstruction of the notary responsible for the conduct of the proceedings under the legislation. Notaries now play a very serious role in the administration of justice in non-negotiable proceedings. Due to the rules on electronic communications in civil order, the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy is necessary. amendment of the law. Finally, due to the rules of civil procedure on electronic communications, it is also necessary to amend Act L of 2009 on the order for payment procedure. Dear House, For all these reasons, I strongly recommend that you adopt the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-05-4	I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2015-11-05-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to begin my speech with the element of the bill, which is undoubtedly forward-looking and eligible. In our view, the new provisions concerning the appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union, i.e. the initiation of the so-called preliminary ruling procedure, are in any event like this. We also consider it important that the court be obliged to justify rejecting the application of the court to initiate the procedure of the European Court of Justice. The justification is also essential to enable the party to exercise its right to appeal in full, since the rejection of the application to initiate proceedings of the European Court of Justice may be challenged in an appeal against a substantive decision. It is important to note, of course, that this amendment did not come into the bill because of the government's commitment to the rule of law, nor even to the EU, because in this case the national Parliament itself is also in the role of enforcement, because, due to the absence of the provisions, the Constitutional Court found that the Constitutional Court had failed to adopt the necessary provisions until 31 December this year. We hope that the Constitutional Court, which Fidesz has expanded, will continue to stand so firmly in defence of the right to a fair trial when the decision may have a political context or impact; this is not the case. The majority of the provisions of the bill before us are not about the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision but about the establishment of rules for electronic contact in legal proceedings. The extension of electronic administration and electronic contact is, in itself, an expressly eligible objective, which the MSZP agrees with. Significant steps have already been taken to address digitalised cases before 2010, especially in the area of public administration. It is regrettable that this process has been halted for years after the change of government in 2010. It is enough here to think of the non-execution and rewriting of the provisions of the administrative procedural law on electronic administration, the delay of the introduction of the electronic registration system for years. In this respect, the work that had already begun has only recently been given a fresh impetus. However, in the age of the information society, these wasted times are a major disadvantage for both public administration and citizens. Although the MSZP, both in the government and now in the opposition, explicitly advocates the introduction of modern technologies in the functioning of public bodies, unfortunately, the professional development and justification of the concrete proposals submitted by the government leaves a lot to be desired in most cases. Unfortunately, the level of legislation is deteriorating spectacularly year after year. For example, according to the Rules of the House, the author would not be able to submit amendments to his own legislative proposals, but the fact that the government is rewriting its own proposals several times in Parliament's debate has now become shocking. This would be the minor problem in itself, but there is nothing to justify that even the laws adopted so often need to be amended a few weeks after their entry into force or even before they can be applied. This undermines not only the authority of Parliament, but also legal certainty. Unfortunately, the same can be said of the legislative amendment that has now been tabled to speed up litigation and extend electronic contact. While the objectives can be explicitly endorsed, the specific legislation submitted raises a number of doubts, especially when taking into account the background of the amendment. It has not yet been six months since the Parliament has negotiated and adopted a bill setting the same goals. In case you have forgotten, my fellow Members, this was T/4648. Their salad law on certain judicial amendments, adopted by the Parliament on 9 June. In this law, a series of new rules have been added to the provisions of the civil procedure on electronic communications, even though the scope of the electronic road cases should have been extended by 1 July 2015 on the basis of legal rules already adopted. According to this, only a few weeks before the deadline of 1 July, they realized that the existing rules could be a problem. In addition, not only the rules have been amended, but the extension of the scope of the electronic-routed cases has been postponed by six months without any reason in the context of the text-exchange amendments, until 1 January 2016. This was expressly opposed by my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, in his speech as lead speaker in May, and pointed out that the amendments were unacceptable and, I quote, that the personal responsibility of the President of the OBH, the Fairy of Hando, is indeed raised. [[9.30]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, the deadline is coming again. There are no more than two months left until the date of 1 January. Well, there's a new amendment on schedule. Or is that a déjà vu feeling, fellow Members? So the June amendment was only a half-cocked law? The problem is not necessarily that, in preparation, they realize that change is needed. The bigger problem is that these corrections are usually presented without thought, with a visible sign of a new need for amendment. Unfortunately, this statement is confirmed by Parliament's motions, not just in this bill. By the time this bill goes through the usual legislative process, there will be plenty of December. In other words, courts, public authorities, lawyers, but worst of all, customers, Hungarian citizens will have only a few weeks to learn about the new rules before they enter into force. It is even on the official impact assessment basis of the draft law that all actors, i.e. market players and the general public, as well as the administrative burden of public administration, will be increased as a result. In particular, in the case of entities subject to electronic contact, it is a question of how they will be able to prepare for the new rules, especially if, as usual, the legislative committee is to be amended a few days before the final vote. Finally, we would not be surprised if, once again, the Commission had adopted a text-exchange amendment, they decided to postpone further. Even if the regulation is not complete this time, it is possible that the parties to the lawsuit would be better off delaying it. In light of the foregoing, therefore, the MSZP has serious reservations about the amendment that has just been tabled. It can only be hoped that this time the government has indeed managed to put forward a mature regulation, and that it will not be turned upside down during the next few weeks of the Commission's negotiations. I would like to draw close attention once again: 1 January is very close. The application of the proposed new rules will be a challenge for stakeholders. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, it is up to you to draw up well-thought-out, professionally founded laws and to present them to the House. That, let's face it, didn't go that far. Less text, less party politics, more work and professionalism. The Ministry of Justice could really use it, and let's face it, the country, because every single law at the end of the day is gonna make the lives of the citizens miserable if they can't present it without error and get it accepted. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-11-05-6	I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-11-05-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before presenting the essential elements of the bill, it is absolutely necessary to describe some of the precedents which justified the submission of the proposal. 1295/2015 on certain judicial and prosecutorial tasks relating to administrative and civil proceedings. According to a government decision, it is necessary to establish the infrastructure conditions for mandatory electronic communications by the courts by 31 December 2015 and therefore it is necessary to provide for the requirements of Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. amendment of the law. In accordance with Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, LXXI 2015 on a non-compliance procedure and amending certain laws on judicial matters. Law 18 On the basis of the Pp. amendment contained in §2 of the Act, electronic contact with legal representatives and entities acting in civil proceedings is mandatory after 1 January 2016. In the case of natural persons, electronic contact will still not be mandatory if there is no legal representative in the case. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at some of the essential elements of the regulation, so first of all with regard to the Pp amendment. Electronic litigation will become mandatory for parties and entities acting with legal representatives. The organizational and legal representative is currently identified by means of a so-called customer gate identification for natural persons representing the parties, and, after this identification, digitalised documents will be served through the customer gate in the lawsuit. In the case of public administrations, electronic contact at the so-called office gate of the body in the administrative litigation is possible instead of the person representing the organisation. In civil and administrative proceedings where the prosecutor acts as a legal entity exercising the rights of the party, he shall be obliged to keep in contact by electronic means. The electronic contactee will be obliged to digitise and preserve paper-based documents. The court will be obliged to digitise the submissions received on paper in five days. A delivery presumption will also be attached to the mail sent to the customer gate or to the office gate, which can, of course, be overturned. The application and other pleadings shall be lodged in packages of a size which can be accepted safely and without injury by the delivery system - at present 100 megabytes - and, in the case of a multi-piece e-print package, the application and the submission shall be deemed to have arrived at the court at the time indicated in the receipt certificate received for the last part. In some exceptional cases, electronic delivery is not mandatory. In an administrative case, the first service of documents to the defendant, in the case of a paper-based presentation of the document, in the case of a party acting with a legal representative, shall be possible for the party to withdraw the mandate of the legal representative and to notify it to the court. Article 26/2005 Ab-decision found that there was a failure to comply with the Constitution and called on the legislator to eliminate the decision of the court by a formal decision or order in the proceedings to initiate the preliminary ruling procedure in the event of the rejection of the application. The amendment also clearly resolves this issue. The bill regulates the rules of civil procedure for so-called distance hearing. The bill states that the lawsuits for the payment of damages for the violation of the rights of personality caused by the exercise of public authority fall within the jurisdiction of the court. And now let us look briefly at the amendment of other legislation. In order to ensure the continuous provision of notaries services, the annual XLI on notaries is appropriate. In addition to the Act, which allows the notary competent under the law to appoint the notary in place of the local notary if he is prevented. The rules of the Pp. on electronic communications require LIII of 2006 on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major economic importance. Amendment to Act L of 2009 on the order for payment procedure. Please support the bill, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-05-8	I give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-05-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us is basically not political, but it has also been seen from the debate before me. Of course, the government can be accused of not taking every step on the electronic changeover, and this may also be a common accusation - by the way, in the time of socialist governments almost nothing happened in this area - and Fidesz has started, although it is very slow and problematic to switch to electronic administration, but it must be said that this is the future. [[9.40]] And we believe that, on the one hand, it can be an effective tool for environmental aspects, in many cases for simplification or even for speeding up procedures, but the point is that the deadline of 1 January 2016 may be that in some cases - although it is not new that this has been introduced - some farming organisations will indeed seem to have a very short time to prepare. In the case of the courts, I dare hope that this preparation has already begun, and it seems that in some areas electronic administration has already started. Of course, digitising documents from other authorities will be a new challenge. Of course, you'll have to start with that. I believe that if the court needs more resources, more people, it will clearly indicate it, and it will appear in the budget of the courts sooner or later. So if the dialogue works, they'll be able to refer to it. We hope it doesn't cause any disruptions. As I said, they had to start preparing for this, but the digitisation obligation alone does not go wrong, but it will be in question whether the courts that have already been burdened will be able to do so by the deadline - perhaps the five days have been said here - if they can do so. In the case of lawyers, I also do not think that the transition would be difficult; for years, for many years, lawyers have handled virtually a crucial part of the case electronically by electronic signature. And that this is expanding and becoming more and more mandatory is not necessarily a bad thing either. Lawyers can be expected to prepare for this and meet the new challenges of the new times, and by the way, most of them, I cannot say statistics, but they also use electronic administration. In most cases, their own lives have been made easier even if it was just an option and not an obligation. In the case of enterprises, as I said, there will be a question, and especially for smaller enterprises, because it is also a good part of the small ones, but medium and large companies obviously have some lawyer do these things, either the company procedure or other administration, or it is now being electronically dealt with. So, in this way, the lawyer is burdened with this. Although there will be small companies, small and micro-enterprises that will have to do this themselves, because they do not have, say, a framework to receive legal representatives or to be able to live with legal representatives in all cases. Well, in that case, I have my doubts as to how much they can handle it, but if there's any statement for that, we're very happy to take it from the Secretary of State. Then, in itself - just to say it - to increase the possibilities of identifying the parties: if identity becomes questionable in a court of law in a case before it, in most cases I can associate with migrant affairs, because in the case of a domestic citizen there is usually no question who is standing before the court; if, say, an immigrant, a refugee, as you like, has to be brought to justice, then there may be a more serious problem to investigate. In the same way, the introduction of the rules of witness hearing on the Be. As such, this is not necessarily a bad thing, and even if we can guarantee that identification is properly carried out, this can be done through closed-chain systems capable of transmitting data. Otherwise, this is applied to the West on a daily basis. So if we go in this direction, on the one hand, we save money for the parties involved, and the procedure gets faster. So we would urge this to happen, by the way. And if that is the case, then perhaps there should be so much more to say here that, in connection with the rules on the preparation of the minutes, lawyers have an amazing number of complaints, because unfortunately, in the courts - I know that this is not just the problem of Parliament, so we could address this request to the OBH, and we have also told him our concerns - mostly the text of the minutes is recorded on old cassette tapes, or the description is made locally, not literally, but in terms of substance. In many cases, not only is the procedure itself not perfect, but it often makes it very difficult to trace what is said, literally, on a certain important issue, in a lawsuit. So if we go to electronic administration and introduce modern technology - which we are very happy about - in procedures, then something as simple as keeping a record should also be taken into account, because, indeed, a case can be decided at second instance what goes on in the minutes. And if it doesn't get into it exactly, then it can be decided independently of what has been said, or independent of the facts, and it is very difficult to say in hindsight that the protocol was not accurate. And that is also true for the preparation and sending of the minutes. Courts tend to slide with this. I know you're busy, but in the West, as far as I'm concerned, it's automatic; it could work with voice recognition systems and on this basis descriptive systems, and you only have to go through these reports through one check. But let's not run so far, the point is that we also want to make some progress. The second is the introduction of the preliminary ruling procedure in connection with the failure to comply with the Constitution pursuant to the Ab Decision. Of course, it would have been nice not to have had to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision to be made. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the preliminary ruling procedure... - which, in many cases, may be capable of screening out legislation which cannot be challenged by other means and, let us say, does not fit into the European legal order, I can mainly think of civil law here, and it is not a misunderstanding that I would definitely want to be the primaryist of EU law, but in many cases, unfortunately, Hungarian legislation does not always transpose the positive rules into Hungarian law. And when a citizen refers to an EU law, say, a consumer protection law, to an example, which usually has direct effect, especially consumer protection rules, he will obviously refer to a rule that expands his rights, or he feels that in some of the elements of the Hungarian legislation he or she hinders or does not complete his or her personal enforcement. So it is important to point out that in this case, it is about the ability of law-abiding citizens to act in favour of their rights. And in many cases, the courts, we find that they are not very concerned with these submissions, or that these submissions are being swept aside. The reason for this, of course, is that you are overwhelmed that this is an additional task. These guarantee rules for the protection of persons should therefore be absorbed. I know this adds to the fact that it makes guarantees out of the Hungarian legal field, but citizens still have to be given the right to live with it as widely as possible. It is a good initiative for the court to reject this with an order - we obviously decide to reject it here, because if it is okay with it, then the citizen referring to it may be happy - but I do not think that it is evil either, and we will probably submit an amendment to that in order to appeal this order. If, within the judicial system, it becomes more of an automaticism to be judged by the higher courts, then everyone will be more careful to ensure that these rights are granted to law-seeking citizens. After all, the only thing that will happen now is to write in an order why it can't, but if that order can't be appealed, then it can actually include anything, or at a later stage, the Curia can use it as a case-law analysis, but it can have a maximum of this effect, despite the fact that this area could be better exploited. And I stress that this is not about and not about the EU legislation that, let us say, the European Commission would like to put pressure on Hungary. [[9.50]] After all, the Commission can turn directly to the Court of Justice of the European Union, and in some cases it will do so, and in many cases we will not even give it the truth, so the Commission is not necessarily right. And by the way, there is also the EU court when it rejects these submissions, but that is what the courts are meant to decide. The point that I would like to emphasise once again is that in these cases it is citizens' submissions, and citizens refer to rules that increase their opportunities and rights or better protect their fundamental rights. So, together with welcoming that the Constitutional Court has made this decision, of course, Parliament has no choice but to make this law quite close to the deadline of 31 December, but I would also like to consider giving an appeal. Even more so, because this appeal does not escape the jurisdiction of the Hungarian court system, only two judicial forums will examine it, and the decision may be more justified. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-05-10	Dear Parliament, The group of the LMP is not present, so the time for keynote speeches is over. I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr, the first to ask for a normal word.
u2015-11-05-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Tamás Harangozó said in his keynote speech all the positives that could be said regarding the draft law on civil order. I wouldn't repeat that. I agree with him, but I wouldn't repeat it. I would like to address a few questions and some concerns. In fact, I would like to refer back to what has already been said twice in the House's walls, that Parliament has brought about a basic violation of the law, which, as a result of a call from the Constitutional Court, should, in effect, be corrected by 31 December if my memories do not deceive me. Well, it would have been better if that hadn't happened. But if that is the case, then obviously it must be sought to correct this by 31 December. However, what I would like to mention as one of the positives that you have said is, in fact, that, whether in the civil suit or the clarification of the rules of electronic contact, administration, or the confirmation of it is important and necessary, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not dispute or even support and strengthen this. In addition, I would like to note that the Hungarian Socialist Party has already considered it important to move towards digitisation and has enforced it through its own activities. Obviously, this process, if it continues to build and strengthen, is supported. What I'm really having a problem with or a problem with is some of the things in which I don't know the exact answers, at least personally, but I think there are more of us. I have sought and researched the opinion of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, but I have not seen or found it, and I would like to ask whether there is such an opinion, whether it has been requested, and, if there is, whether the content of this is attached in a confirmatory manner to all that is in the proposal. I hope there is, and yes, a confirmation, because then it strengthens what I said earlier, that this process must be based on the importance of electronic communication, administration and digitisation, and this should be confirmed. What concerns me is two things. One of them is the salad law of 4648 which has now been called, from the summer period, which allows a minimum period of preparation for companies and the people themselves, together with the regulation of the business process, the creation of new adjustments, the slipping of deadlines - and therefore for businesses and the public themselves - to prepare until 1 January. This, in effect, by adopting the current draft law, creates the situation that, in this sense, the administrative burden assigned to bureaucracy will increase both for the general public and for businesses, if not for others, simply because of the scarcity of time and preparation. That is why it would have been appropriate if, in recalling my first sentence, it had been possible to avoid the situation which is about the need to comply with what the Parliament has done on the basis of the call of the Constitutional Court on the basis of the failure to enforce the fundamental law. My second concern, which was not mentioned here today, is actually the right to a fair trial and the protection of what is being formulated within the framework of the draft law. Répássy Róbert Fidesz, my fellow Member, is not here now, but that is not a problem, because what he said was an important thing, he said, that speeding up the work of the courts should be achieved. I agree with him, I would like to confirm this, and the courts - quoted in quotes - do not make a decision, by which I mean - I could give you a lot of examples - that they have to face processes covering a period of 5-6 years in a simple labour trial. Let's just say, if I were to bring up specific cases, I could say that 10-12 court talks are being held by those involved, I am right to say: 10-12 times court negotiations in a simple labour trial with 4-5-6 judges, because interestingly, when the decision comes close to the case, there will be a change of court. Well, I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but it's like they're not random. So, a word, like a hundred, at least in cases where decisions can be made on a very simple, exact basis, it would be good for the courts to take the path that is the usual practice, as an example in a labour lawsuit, to make and make decisions in 3-4 months. Not in five or six years. I would like to say that I fully agree with Róbert Répássy's claim and wish to speed up the activities of the courts, but that is not Répássy Róbert saying, he is repeating the lesson now, because many representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party have stressed this for years, and we have also asked for a move in this. One word, like a hundred, would be satisfied and calmer if, as I said, decisions based on exact basis could take place within a reasonable, acceptable time interval. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-05-12	I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the item on the agenda. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed, and I give the floor to Secretary of State Mariann Water East to respond to what has been said.
u2015-11-05-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to what has been said with a few sentences. First of all, I would like to thank the Members who are present for their basically positive contributions to the bill, in support of it, even if a number of criticisms have been expressed. I would like to respond to one or two of the criticisms. One is that the preparation period is short, and therefore it is feared that business organisations, for example, will not be able to prepare in time and to carry out their legislative intentions. In addition, there have already been several other obligations imposed by business organisations that have served the obligation of electronic communication. Let us also think about company procedures, corporate affairs or tax procedures, as relations with NAV are now running smoothly. But I could also mention the electronic reporting to KSH, which is also mandatory for economic operators. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: And how well that worked out!]] In fact, I have to say that it went well, so yes, a positive result can be reported in this respect. [[10.00]] So we have the hope that this will also happen smoothly. Not to mention that it was actually here, as Mr President mentioned, a deadline-out, compared to 1 July 2015 the entry into force will take place on 1 January 2016. I hope that both the OBH, the public authorities and the farming bodies, not to mention the legal representatives, will be well prepared to ensure that electronic communications can continue smoothly. I would also like to thank the honourable Members once again for their fundamentally supportive attitude. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-05-14	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Next up is the 2014 XC on International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid. Law 17 and Act CXLIII of 2015 on Public Procurement General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/6985. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-05-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The adoption of the International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Act in December 2014 was a milestone in the implementation of Hungary's international development cooperation and humanitarian aid policy. The current amendment of the law is justified by the practical experience gained since its entry into force and by compliance with other legislative changes affecting the activity. Our target system with this amendment of the law, our House, is a double. On the one hand, we would like to ensure a legal environment that enables Hungary to provide official development assistance effectively and quickly in eligible developing countries, thereby ensuring the rapid and effective implementation of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid policy programmes and projects, while also complying with the rules of transparent, efficient and verifiable management of public funds. Secondly, Honourable House, we must also bring the law into line with other legislative changes that have taken place since December of last year in the field of activity. I therefore call for this proposal to be seen as a proposal containing fundamentally technical amendments. The aim of this, if I would like to present it very plasticly, is that if, somewhere in the third world, in the developing world - but we expand the category a little, because these names are no longer suitable for all countries that are otherwise eligible for NEFE support, such as Ukraine or Serbia - so if there is a natural disaster in these countries, such as flooding in Serbia or Ukraine, I will do so, in particular in Transcarpathia, then the Hungarian Government can effectively provide assistance with immediate effect. The current legislation requires a bureaucratic and administrative, circumstantial procedure, which in many cases prevents or at least slows down the timely and genuinely helpful delivery of these allocated resources to the country of destination and to the target audience. Take, for example, a natural disaster or any other adverse event in Serbia. At present, the regulation requires several months of internal procedures - and I do not even talk about the other side, the host side - to get the aid granted to the victims. This isn't right. We'd like to speed this up. Now, in addition, what is the substance of this proposal? Mr President, Dear Parliament, Poverty in developing countries has also decreased significantly, measurablely and noticeably over the last decades, thanks to donor activities in developed countries and international organisations. At the same time, the emerging power, social, religious and other conflicts, the prolonged structural crises and the increasing impact of natural disasters have led to difficult living conditions in various regions of the world, which have triggered unexpected reactions in many cases. In the current migration and refugee crisis, the creation of viable conditions in the medium to long term, based on the cooperation of the developed and developing world, also arises as a fundamental solution. Once again, I would like to add that the categories of developing and developed worlds now mean something different than when these concepts were developed. The success of this global development partnership could prevent the difficult communities of the countries concerned, typically Africa, the Middle East and Asia, from moving mass towards European welfare states. This requires a well-functioning and flexible international development and cooperation and humanitarian assistance mechanism from donors, including Hungary. Last December, this House adopted the International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Act, which, as I mentioned, was a milestone in the implementation of Hungary's international development cooperation and humanitarian aid policy. At the same time, the current legal environment, in particular with regard to public procurement and management rules on budgetary aid, does not take into account the specific features of NEFE and humanitarian policy and international aid policy, the specific situation and needs of the implementation on the ground. In the practical implementation of these policies, the beneficiaries are developing countries, most of which have undeveloped institutional infrastructure other than that of the country, and often the implementing partners are local, i.e. foreigners, public institutions or civil society organisations. In any event, the Hungarian legislative environment does not contain any specific provision in these cases, the provisions are basically applicable to domestic aid cases. The legal provisions are incomplete and unclear among law-abiders such as Hungarian public administrations, civil society organisations and third-country enforcement, which can lead to a loss of or even a failure of the activity. In this way, the Hungarian NEFE and humanitarian activity become difficult, its effectiveness is reduced, which causes Hungary to fall behind in European and international comparisons, and it no longer complies with international standards. With legislative amendments, we want to create a legislative environment that meets the specific needs of the field, but also the aspects of public finance management. Increasing the long-term visibility and social support of policies is a priority objective of the law and therefore the amendment specifically identifies global responsibility education as a key instrument for raising international development awareness. In order to finance policies, the funds allocated to it will be published in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Policy led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the amendment will make it clear that Hungary's existing and future international and EU commitments will also have to be taken into account. The rules allowing derogations from general government management rules in the light of the specific situation and needs of NEFE and international humanitarian aid policies have also been reviewed. In the case of international humanitarian aid, it is essential that assistance is provided quickly and in a manner suitable to meet real needs. In many cases, the conduct of the procurement procedure does not allow this to happen, and the proposed amendment therefore exempts NEFE and humanitarian aid from the conduct of procedures below the EU threshold. This will significantly increase the effectiveness of the activity to help the population in emergency situations. Dear Parliament, As you have just heard, this amendment of the law is taking significant steps to ensure a legal environment that allows Hungary to rapidly and effectively provide official development aid in eligible developing countries. This will make the implementation of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid policy programmes and projects faster and more effective, thereby increasing Hungary's international recognition and promoting its external relations. [[10.10]] In view of all of this, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt the bill, especially with regard to the fact that the current migration crisis, as I briefly mentioned, imposes new tasks and obligations on the entire European Union, the international community, including Hungary, which were not so acutely present and were not so characteristic in the past. It is Hungary's moral and political duty to play its part in mitigating the crises and international efforts to do so, which are due to crises that are currently hundreds of thousands, millions, potentially millions and even tens of millions of others, will arrive and arrive at Europe's external borders, where, we know, they will reach the heart of Europe in almost hours, without significant resistance. This gives us a tangible, universally understandable reality that can be accepted by the public, which requires and demonstrates urgent legislative changes, that Hungary is ready to take part not only in terms of words and political manifesto, but also in the way of practical action, in dealing with global crises. Of course, we cannot give any illusions about the fact that developments on the scale that Hungary will provide and provide will contribute to the resolution of ongoing conflicts on a substantial and immediate basis, and we do not feed such illusions, but, in terms of our strength, as confirmed by a government decision yesterday, we will contribute some EUR 3 million to the assistance of the European Union and Syria, to the fund for improving and improving the conditions for housing and temporary accommodation of Syrian refugees. So all of this shows that Hungary is committed, and with this amendment we would like to confirm that we can carry out such activities more effectively, faster, simpler and in a way that responds to real needs immediately. However, I would like to note that it is not only the Middle East, it is not just Syria, of course, but also a number of countries here, in our region, in Eastern Europe and in the Balkans, where direct Hungarian foreign policy, diplomatic or national policy interests require and urge Hungary, let us call it that: the mother country can contribute to the development of Hungarian communities across the border, not least in an even more efficient and even larger way, and regions that are important for us from an economic or diplomatic point of view. Dear Parliament, Once again, I would like to ask with respect for the support and adoption of the bill. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-05-16	Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-05-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group agrees with and supports the fundamental aim of the proposed legislation, namely to ensure a legal environment that allows Hungary to provide official development assistance effectively and quickly in eligible developing countries, thereby enabling international development cooperation and humanitarian aid policy programmes and projects to be implemented quickly and effectively in the future. At the same time, it is also important for us to comply with the rules of transparent, efficient and verifiable management of public funds and to comply with this law. Our aim is also to ensure that legislation is consistent with the changes that have taken place since the adoption of the law on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid. Shocking data: By the end of 2014, the number of people expelled from their homes had reached 59,5 million, the highest since the end of World War II and has increased by 40 percent since 2011. Of these, 14,4 million refugees, excluding Palestinian refugees, are 2.3 million more than at the end of 2013, and 1.8 million asylum seekers. In 2014, the majority of Syrian refugees were: 3.9 million. This is over a million and a half over the previous year, ahead of the Afghans, who gave the most refugees for three decades. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that the causes of the crisis in the Middle East are complex. They range from the Islamic Civilization Crisis to the post-World War Peace Bonds, the failure of Arab nationalisms and Vahabism to global climate change. The Iraqi war started in 2003 was a significant milestone in the destabilisation of the region. Later, an Iraqi terrorist organization called Al-Qaeda was established, and millions of people fled from the civil war to neighboring Syria. The Western great powers, France and the United Kingdom in particular, tried to end the massacres with air strikes. By 2015, the Islamic State had acquired control of a 200-kilometer coastline. At the same time, the collapse of the dictatorship opened the way for those who were trying to reach Europe from the inside of Africa. Although Hungary was initially accused of humane crisis and inhumane treatment in the Western press during modern-day migration, the truth is that already in the summer of 2015 the Catholic Carity concluded a cooperation agreement with the Immigration and Nationality Office, which aimed at participating in the care of refugees. But other relief organizations, such as the Hungarian Red Cross, also participated and helped to provide refugees, which continued and smoothly for individuals who accepted the assistance and who were willing to go to the assistance places. Our country is and intends to continue to participate in the humanitarian assistance activities of the international community, which is actively involved as a responsible donor. Hungarian humanitarian aid is based on international humanitarian law, international human rights conventions and international refugee law, as well as on the four main humanitarian principles: humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. Humanitarian aid is directed to the areas where trouble and suffering are greatest. We do our job along the lines of humanitarian principles and after assessing needs. In practice, aid takes three forms: through government capacities, such as disaster protection, the Ministry of Defence, embassies and civil society organisations, thirdly through international organisations, in particular the UN specialized bodies, the Red Cross and the Red Crescent Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, Poverty in developing countries has decreased significantly and measurablely over recent decades due to donor activities in developed countries and international organisations. At the same time, the emerging power, social, religious and other conflicts, prolonged structural crises and ever-increasing natural disasters have led to very difficult living conditions in various regions of the world, which have shown unexpected reactions. [[10.20]] In the current migration and refugee crisis, one of the solutions proposed is the creation of viable conditions in the medium and long term, which should be based on the cooperation of the developed and developing world. The success of this development partnership could prevent these countries, typically Africa, some countries of the Middle East and Asia, from taking a massive journey towards European welfare states. This requires a well-functioning and flexible NEFE, i.e. an international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance mechanism for donors, including Hungary. Dear House, This bill facilitates, simplifies and accelerates this activity. In this way, assistance can make these humanitarian goals even more effective in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill and asks the entire Parliament to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-05-18	I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-11-05-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. On 18 November 2014, less than a year ago, the Government presented a bill of 19 paragraphs on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid. The proposal was supported by all political groups with 6 votes against at the time, as the legislation has long been called for by national and international actors involved in the implementation of policies. The Act entered into force on 1 July 2015, but unfortunately the amendment was already tabled on 27 October, which is not unprecedented; there have been other cases where the law has not yet entered into force. But regardless, if the law gets better, it makes sense. The Hungarian Socialist Party then supported the adoption of the law on international development cooperation, as it can facilitate the development of our external relations, the access of domestic economic operators to the foreign market, the expansion of the system of education or health care relations, as well as the development of Hungarian knowledge and technology transfer. International development cooperation policy and humanitarian aid should therefore be an integral part of Hungary's foreign policy. As was said in the then ministerial expo, most of the Hungarian official development aid reaches its recipients through international organisations. However, this will significantly reduce the chances of bilateral contacts with partner countries and direct contacts in the framework of this assistance. This is why it is important that the law states that international development cooperation must be carried out primarily through bilateral cooperation with beneficiary countries, taking into account the potential economic and trade-enhancing effects in Hungary. In the debate on the bill on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid, we said that it is to be welcomed that Hungary is involved in the fight against poverty, human and minority rights, sustainable development and international development cooperation aimed at promoting international security and stability, in line with its national interests and taking into account the country's capacity to bear weight. It is also involved in the reduction of the negative impact of crises caused by natural and civilisational disasters through humanitarian assistance. It is essential that the adopted law 6. The Minister for Foreign Economy shall prepare a policy strategy for a period of at least four years in order to plan international development cooperation activities and ensure consistency of policies for development purposes. The policy strategy sets out the range of beneficiary partner countries and identifies sectoral priorities as appropriate. In doing so, the Minister, the Ministry, must cooperate with the other ministries concerned and consult civil society. The current amendment also concerns Article 6 of the Act. §8 of the EC Treaty. This means that it is out of the text of the law to define the range of beneficiary partner countries by a policy strategy. The policy strategy is therefore limited to defining geographical and sectoral priorities. The detailed justification of the proposal only shows that the Inter-Market Committee for International Development Cooperation will then propose to the Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister the range of partner countries to be supported. We continue to consider it to be supportive and good that the law 8. According to Paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act on International Development Cooperation, central government bodies shall cooperate with civil society organisations and other social partners, in particular with representatives of science, culture, representation bodies and parliamentary parties. Cooperation would take the form of regular information and consultation in the process of policy-related legislation, planning, implementation and control. However, it remains a question whether, in the Ministerial Decree on the implementation of the Act, the portfolio clarified the invited parties to this regular information and consultation, the regularity of the meetings and whether the invited parties could make use of the agenda proposal on the subject. If you will mention this in your summary, I would like to thank you. We also consider it important that central government administrations involve economic operators in the implementation of international development cooperation activities that practice in line with international standards from a sustainable environmental and social point of view. The law is 10. Paragraph 1 of Article 2 (1) sets out which organisations may contribute to international humanitarian aid. As a list: the humanitarian international, regional and local organisations, the central body of the professional disaster management body, ministries, the foreign representations of Hungary, civil society organisations established in Hungary, the International Red Cross and Red Crescent movement and national organisations, as the Fidesz contributor has already referred to, as well as economic operators. It remains a question for us why churches are absent from this list. During the last time, when this was discussed in Parliament and in committee, I proposed in an amendment that Hungarian historical churches be included in this list. At the time, the Commission's majority rejected this amendment because of the fidesz explanation that humanitarian aid was provided by churches through their civil society organisations, and therefore the churches were not named. I still think that it makes sense, even symbolically, to extend this list. The law is 11th. According to Paragraph 1 (1) of Article 4 (1) of the Act, the Government operates an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance activities and to coordinate policies for development purposes. We said it then, but it is worth stressing now that we believe that the Inter-Market Committee has a very narrow scope on these issues, so that they should play a role in this coordination and receive at least the 10th floor. Organisations as defined in paragraph 1 of Section 1. However, it remains unclear that Article 11 of the Law does not apply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, pursuant to Paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the Act, intends to operate an agency to facilitate the performance of project-based activities in order to increase the efficiency of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance activities. The current amendment is affected by Article 12 of the Act. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the [[10.30]] The present proposal is 4. Article 5 of the Act makes it clear that international development cooperation and international humanitarian assistance activities should be financed with due regard for Hungary's international and European Union commitments, but, contrary to the detailed justification, the proposal removes from the law the fact that this amount will be allocated as chapter-based appropriations in the annual budget and that the use of Chapter-based appropriations will be managed by the Minister for Foreign Policy. If my interpretation is correct, Mr Secretary of State, then you must have an answer to that question as to why the main person responsible for this issue will be excluded from the management of the use of resources in particular. The law is 15. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall report to the Government by 31 July each year on the international development cooperation and international humanitarian assistance activities of the previous year. With this amendment, the deadline for the submission of the report will change to 31 August, so that the document can include final data on the eligible resources of Hungary as a general official development supporter to be sent to the OECD DAC. The report shall be published on the website of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs after its adoption by the Government. It remains a question for us why this report cannot be placed on the Parliament's table, i.e. why the government only discloses it on the ministerial websites, why the Parliament does not discuss this issue at least at committee level, this report. As we have seen, the Intergovernmental Committee for Coordination of International Development Cooperation will then propose to the Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister the circle of partner countries to be supported, which may explain that the bill is set out in Article 6. Article 2b removes the criteria for identifying beneficiary partner countries and sectoral priorities from the hands of the Minister responsible for foreign policy. At the same time, it remains questionable on the basis of which the Minister sets out the criteria and procedures for the preconditioning of civil society organisations involved in policy implementation. The bill contains not only the aforementioned amendments, but also amends one point of the Act on Public Procurement 2015. If the Secretary of State would like to mention the reason for this change, I would also like to thank you, since 111 is the reason for this change. § 2 states that: "This Act shall not apply to the purchase of humanitarian aid under the EU threshold, i.e. in the context of external aid, in the course of crisis management, in respect of which the competent committee of Parliament has taken a preliminary decision to exclude the application of this Act. After the amendment, it will be replaced by the following text in point (e):, for the procurement of international development cooperation and international humanitarian assistance activities. So there are two things that come out of this: one of the issues of substance is why this word "the crisis management" comes out, and why, as I understand it, the Committee on Foreign Affairs had to be removed from this law so to speak. If this can only be justified by a rapid reaction, this may even be rational, but there are other procurement procedures where the competent committee, such as the National Security Committee, should act in such a case, and so far it has worked smoothly in previous practice. I think that transparency would certainly be enhanced if this kind of parliamentary control or, in some respects, from a different perspective, parliamentary support helped the minister in charge of foreign policy and foreign economy in such cases. Since the adoption of the Act on International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid was already supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party and the amendment contained in the current bill, unlike some minor amendments, is considered to be of a more technical nature, so the presentation will be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction, as I said earlier, and we believe that it is a right step that can help the government in this area to better represent Hungary's international interests and strengthen our international engagement. Therefore, I repeat once again, we will support this proposal on our part, and if the Secretary of State can address the issues raised, then these little misunderstandings will also be clarified. If I may, in a next comment, I would like to say what kind of amendments we would like to make on minor issues that might clarify the text of this law a little bit more. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-11-05-20	I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-11-05-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XC 2014 on International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Law 17 and Act CXLIII of 2015 on Public Procurement T/6985. The fundamental and most important objective of the legislative proposal is to provide a legal environment that enables Hungary to provide official development aid effectively and quickly in developing countries eligible for this, while at the same time complying with the rules of transparent, efficient and verifiable public finance management. The purpose of the bill is also to comply with the legislative changes that have taken place since the adoption of the law on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary dared to tell the truth, namely that today one of the most intensive migrations in the history of the world and the organized occupation of Europe are taking place, and that hundreds of thousands of migrants are going to Germany, Denmark and Sweden, those who are no longer fit for Austria, one of the richest ten countries in the world. Millions are preparing, including an undetermined number of military youths, many of whom are extremist Islamic warriors. Thus, while medieval, bloody religious wars are raging in the Middle East and North Africa, certain figures in history not only encourage the wave of migration, but set it to their own ends, i.e. extend the theatre of war to Europe, even export Shiita Sunni, Turkish-Kurd, and other national and tribal conflicts. It is feared that the migration invasion will not only call into question the interoperability of borders, but at the same time the most serious threat since World War II is humane, tolerance, the coexistence of European nations, believers and atheists, different religions and world-viewers. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember our national day of mourning yesterday, and remember that we Hungarians know that not only alien invaders can cause the loss of a nation, but also helpless and incompetent leaders who are able to betray or sell their nation's freedom because of their own weakness. Europe is today full of such incompetent leaders, helpless ones, who, because of their own weakness, are able to sacrifice their own nation and their own people. [[10.40]] Today's leaders in Europe demand unconditional solidarity, inclusion, and tolerance for peace. Today's leaders of Europe violate the sovereignty of nations when, without authority, millions of aliens are invited and distributed among other countries, not to think that the iron curtain they mentioned meant slavery, and the technical border lock is the protection of our freedom. Europe's leaders have forgotten to ask European people whether they want Europe's composition, culture, order and faith to change forever. Ladies and Gentlemen, This was the case in Hungary in 1956. The oppressors believed that they could do anything to the nation and to the people, even to give up their freedom, self-determination, culture, borders, history and faith. The Hungarians' response today is what it was in 1956: enough! Hungary protects its borders and freedom, but the Hungarians are also in solidarity with the refugees. I have to say here that, in addition to the Hungarian Catholic Charity, the Hungarian Red Cross is also very active in the humanitarian management of the situation created by illegal immigrants. Hungary is therefore actively involved in the humanitarian activity of the international community despite any conflicting siren voice. Hungarian humanitarian aid is based on the relevant provisions of international law, humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. Humanitarian aid is directed to the areas where it is most needed. Assistance is carried out in three main areas: through the involvement of government resources, civil society organisations and international organisations. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fundamental and most important objective of the bill is to provide a legal environment that enables Hungary to provide effective and rapid assistance to eligible developing countries, while also complying with the rules of transparent, efficient and verifiable management of public funds. The aim is also to ensure compliance with the 2014 XC on International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid. changes in legislation since the adoption of law. It is important that similar laws are adopted in other European countries, so that cooperation in the developed and developing world can be facilitated, and that the development partnership can succeed in preventing the massive movement of communities in Africa, the Middle East and certain countries of Asia from moving towards Europe. This requires a well-functioning and flexible humanitarian aid mechanism and policy. Ladies and Gentlemen, The amendment clarifies how the NEFE policy strategy is defined. The NEFE policy strategy sets out the geographical and sectoral priorities of Hungary's NEFE activity, taking into account which the Intergovernmental Committee for International Development Cooperation will propose to the foreign and economic minister the range of partner countries to be supported. The amendment provides for the possibility of providing support, donation and other consideration for the expenditure appropriations of the budgetary body falling within the central sub-sector of public finances in the framework of international humanitarian assistance, and of payment being made. Increasing the visibility and social support of policies is a priority objective of the NEFE Act, and therefore the amendment specifically identifies global ownership education as a means of raising international development awareness. In order to finance policies, the funds allocated to it will be entered in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Policy. The amendment makes it clear that Hungary's international and European Union commitments must also be taken into account in financing. The provision gives the Minister of Foreign Affairs the task of developing a pre-rating system for civil society organisations involved in policy implementation. The purpose of the amendment is not to apply the rules of public procurement to supplies below the EU threshold in the framework of international humanitarian assistance activities. Please support T/6985. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-05-22	I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-05-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I listened attentively to my fellow Members who spoke before me, not basically talking about the bill. This, of course, happens quite often here in this House, but when we read that we are talking about international humanitarian aid, then details and amendments come to the fore, so the proposal is not, in itself, about the different application of humanitarian activity or quotas. I would add to that, of course, if my fellow Members Vejkey are still here, that I agree with what you are saying, that there is no need for quotas, but the problem is that government communication is partly different from that, as the Prime Minister has also been constantly talking about world quotas. So I have to say that it is okay that we are also rejecting European quotas, but world quotas are in some cases even more dangerous, because if we were to defend European borders, if we were to introduce the world quota, then we should not only be doing the distribution of migrants or refugees in Europe, in the countries of the European Union - obviously in this case we should be thinking more of refugees - but then we should be thinking on a global scale that we could bring different refugees from outside Europe here, Hungary, for distribution purposes. There is no other way to interpret what the government has said on this subject. And on top of that, because we couldn't hear the opening of this, the detailed explanation of this, so this is a dangerous area, and in the end someone in the European Union will say yes, and then we will really be in a lot of trouble. So it can be used for a two-pack policy, but it is quite dangerous if, by the way, you do not agree with the introduction of quotas, if that is the case. We certainly do not say that world quotas or EU quotas are needed. And that is also true, and I would also like to say that when we talk about humanitarian aid, we need to see that when we say that we need to solve problems locally, in countries where we have developed, or at least with the help of the neighbouring countries, it is only a partly humanitarian issue and a much more political or, in many cases, a military issue, therefore, a defence issue. After all, if we cannot create or support suitable reception camps, this is the humanitarian part, obviously we need money to do so, but if these camps are not protected and are not protected by the forces or the military, then obviously humanitarian aid is little and nothing, because, for example, the Islamic State will be happy to enter there and possibly even take humanitarian aid. [[10.50]] We can see what is happening in these camps, from violence to robberies, and in many cases it is not even accessible to the media, and even those who have suffered ill will not dare to press charges, but to ask the various humanitarian organisations for help or to report the acts that have been committed here. But it is even sadder to see in Europe that refugees in their relations not only have to suffer the terrorization of the infiltrators, but also in many cases the humanitarian forces working there are also atrocious; we have heard about a number of violence, in which case the organization was trying to cover up these cases. So if we get to the bottom of this, there's a lot to talk about. But I would like to talk about the proposal and tell you what our concerns are, in addition to the fact that, of course, the objective, the humanitarian goal, can always be agreed. Here, however, there are a lot of technical amendments that open up gates that will be difficult to cross in the future, or close opportunities that allow the Parliament to look at the government's activities. We can see that, and here is the third. I am thinking of Section 2 of the Act, and it has already been stated in the law that increasing the social support of international humanitarian aid activities in Hungary is the joint task of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Education. It is okay in itself, it is okay to raise young people to volunteer, to volunteer, to provide humanitarian help. However, the promotion of global responsibility education seems to me a little broad, a little more difficult to define. I believe that global responsibility must be basically for the states, governments, or at least political leaders, political actors, and I do not know how to do better for young people in education education compared to the rules that we have so far. More specifically, what has not been included in the regulation so far, and must be included with this addition, I do not see this exactly. But in some ways, it is even more serious that the 4th is still the 4th. So far, the overall administrative cost of international humanitarian aid activities - I understand how much we intend to do so - had to be planned as a central budget, a chapter-based appropriation, which meant transparency, a detailed negotiation before Parliament, because it had to be entered into the budget in a visible manner as a chapter-based appropriation, until then the amendment, the transition to this activity in the current state is more complicated than what you would like to introduce, since it would be part of the proposal that it should be included in the budget as a chapter-based appropriation, and that it would remain only to be presented by the Minister for Foreign Policy. Of course, it's okay for you to present it, but we can see that the budgets have been presented in recent times by hiding a lot of things in them. So this alone does not make it clear to me whether this will appear separately in the budget, or whether the Parliament will see to what extent you have crossed it. I am not saying that the appropriation does not need to be exceeded in some cases, of course, there may be situations like this, but transparency in this case is very important, given that, although it is for humanitarian purposes, but for the allocation of taxpayers' money abroad, it is for the support of humanitarian objectives. So the Parliament, the Members and the people must see their use. Article 10 I do not understand, my dear House. The amendment to the Law on Public Procurement, compared to the current legislation, states that foreign aid should not apply to a framework below the EU threshold if the competent committee of Parliament has taken a preliminary decision to exclude the application of this law. So if you want to deviate, I mean by avoiding public procurement, you have to ask for the decision of the committee responsible. It can be seen that this is an important guarantee of clarity, since this does not necessarily have to be a public meeting, of course it is the best, but it had to come before the Parliamentary Committee. This is usually difficult to explain with the time factor, because the committees meet regularly, and if, say, there is a serious problem in the summer, then the committee will meet, do not let it pass, and humanitarian aid processes will also be preceded by decision-making and government decisions. So it's not that we're gonna have to hump, we're gonna have to pay tomorrow, and that's why we're gonna have to wait for the committees. So I don't see the real reason. The reason can only be, and it hurts to be mechanically bypassed without a committee decision. My legal concern is not only that in the field of foreign aid and humanitarian aid it can become too mechanical and without a parliamentary committee decision, but also rewording the point (e) concerned, including, in addition to international humanitarian aid activities, international development cooperation activities. Doesn't look like the same term to me. International development cooperation and humanitarian aid activities do not appear to be the same. Commissioner Secretary of State will be able to say that I am interested to know exactly what the difference is. I feel that development cooperation can be in a completely different direction, and if this does not require the opinion of the Parliamentary commission, it is not just about being able to bypass it in humanitarian aid, but also in development cooperation. So I have to say that there is double criticism at this point, and the EU threshold is in vain, but it is possible to dredge money back and forth below the EU threshold, which will not have any insight into the committee concerned. These are the legal arguments I wanted to make. My fellow Member, Mr Mirkóczki, will comment on the proposal. Once again, it is not a matter of disagreeing with the aim, but if the goal is noble, then the committees of the Parliament should also have insight into it. I cannot accept that the time factor may be relevant here, because these meetings can be called together quickly, even in summer, believe me, we will be there if that is the case, and we will also ensure a quorum if there is a real humanitarian issue, but do not hide it in such a way as to avoid the decision of the committees. If you're being guided by the best intentions, certainly not, because then there's a reason for misunderstanding, and I think that should be avoided. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-05-24	The LMP faction is still not present, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. For the first time, I give Attila Mesterházy the opportunity to make a two-minute comment.
u2015-11-05-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If my colleague Vejkey hadn't brought this subject here, I wouldn't have told you in two minutes. But taking advantage of the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shares this apocalyptic vision, since the Member is not here, since there is an organized occupation in Hungary. It might be worth deciding whether it is organised by the Russians or by the Americans, because Simicsko believes that the Russians, the government and others, are the Americans, and György Soros is the third to blame. What's the point? I only hit Google out of curiosity that this stay with György Soros has been a feature of Fidesz, and I found an entry that from April 1988 Orbán was a member of the Central Europe Research Group supported by the Soros Foundation, and from September 1989 he studied the history of English liberal philosophy in Pembroke College, Oxford, with the Foundation's scholarship. József Szájer, MEP of Fidesz, and former State Secretary Zsolt Németh studied with Soros Scholarship at Oxford University. The foundation was also supported by Speaker László Kövér, historian Mária Schmidt and constitutional judge István Stumpf. So it seems to me that this kind of alienation or distance is only today characteristic of some of the government's politicians. It also raises questions whether it is right - and I would like to continue this topic a little further in my normal comment for two minutes, although I did not plan it, but I have to - whether such strong action against Islam is right, whether it helps the policy of opening up to the East in Hungary. What do the Arab countries say about an outburst by a Christian Democrat in parliament against Islam, claiming that humanity and tolerance are at risk just because people of Islamic religion come to Hungary or to the European Union? [[11.00]] While the Islamic community has lived in different countries of Europe for a relatively long time, even in Hungary there is a small community of this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Sorry for the delay.
u2015-11-05-26	I will now give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki for the first time in a normal manner.
u2015-11-05-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I did not plan to comment on the proposal before us, but there was so much nonsense and apparently naivety in the general debate that I cannot stop even for the sake of the minutes, so that I would not react. I would primarily like to reflect on some of the thoughts of the government side that I understand, if not the speaker wrote or said his own thoughts, but someone wrote to him, but we should definitely separate naivety and consistency a little bit. Talking about how we are admiring crisis zones in the world and regions with different wars and conflicts, countries, as if they had grown out of the earth yesterday and had randomly launched a geopolitical avalanche, which we are now only victims of, so you do not think or really believe that this is the case. It is not worth joking with each other, it is not worth examining the Arab Spring or the Middle East's war conflicts without talking about our own responsibility and our own role in it. We cannot talk about humanitarian aid consistently or crediblely while saying something completely different than what we are doing. If we think about how great we have helped to import democracy in the United States of America, whether in Afghanistan, Iraq or Syria, then I think that the comments we have now are rather untrue. Condemning some actors in these conflicts without at least looking at our own role for the future from the point of view of learning is a rather bad political attitude in our view. Congressman Vejkey talked about a lot of things and said a lot of things, also because it was not necessarily part of the proposal, but I, if we are talking about a religion, should be precise. So the congressman said that the extreme is Islam. No, Islam is not the extremist, but certain sects and variants thereof, which are specifically based on terrorist groups; they are indeed extremists, they should be cared for, at least from the point of view of our defence, but a world religion should be branded in this way by the rather bold, especially a Christian Democrat representative. My fellow Member, Gábor Staudt, mentioned the anomaly on quotas. Yes, I would very much like it if, whether Minister of State or State Secretary, he could state his position on the difference, yes, between the EU quota system and the world quota proposed by Viktor Orbán. Why is one bad and what makes another good? Because we think, by the way, quite rightly, that we should condemn any kind of quota system, because it is unsustainable, unfair, and it spreads responsibility among those who, by the way, are not necessarily the cause of this huge crisis. But it is naive to think - and I would draw everyone's attention here - that if we reject an EU quota system, it is naive to think that the world quota is a solution, because what is the difference? Of course, it would spread this vast flood of people between countries or between continents - but let us not have any illusions. If hundreds of thousands or millions of people have flown into the territory of the European Union, whether Hungary or other countries more west of us, does anyone really believe that a world quota will result in the export of these masses from all countries by charter flights to Brazil, Argentina, Australia or, I don't know, to the South Pole, so that these host countries or continents, of course, will be partners with a calm approach? In the case of the world quota, these masses will remain here in the European Union and between the Member States of the European Union, and it would be good to speak openly in this context, and if we fight freedom against European Union policy, then let us put it on the side of it or ask people about what we think and, by the way, about the world quota. Because we think this is another double speech, and we think it is again a deception of Hungarian society. Then, when our fellow Member Vejkey talks about what it is like to be under or suffer from alien occupations, it is true, unfortunately, Hungarian history sets many or many examples in this regard, but let us not forget that when we are irresponsiblely involved in any international military mission, we are just as foreign invaders in the eyes of those living there. And when I miss consistency and credible politics, that's exactly what I'm talking about. For example, it is not possible to worry about peace with one hand or one word in the case of Ukraine, and we are trying to do so with all the means of diplomacy, so that there is peace between the parties, but with our other hand or our other word, we are giving very serious financial support to one party, who is using that financial support exclusively for military purposes, and so we are indirectly contributing to moving things forward, not towards peace, but specifically towards a military solution. And we cannot fear terrorism and scare or prepare - quite rightly - Hungarian society for the dangers of terrorism while sending 150 soldiers to Erbil on an irresponsible or rather weak request, with an irresponsible decision, which in that moment we were on the map of the Islamic State. And we didn't get there physically, either, but also as a potential or a potential target in the future. When we talk about consistency, that's what I'm talking about, and it doesn't matter, it can be used here, that, of course, we're just trainers, of course, we're just convoy attendants, or we're providing objects, and we don't have any defense weapons, no. There's a gun and there's no gun. There's no such thing as a defense weapon and there's no such thing as an attack weapon. There's a way to kill human life, everything else is not a weapon. When we miss consistency, that is exactly what we are talking about, and that is exactly what we are asking for. It would be very good for us, in the spirit of humanism or peace or in order to avoid humanitarian disasters, to pursue a policy in which we recognise that not only the bombs of one combatant party are triggering refugees, but also those of the other. Humans are fleeing not only because of the bombings of the terrorist forces of the Islamic State, but also because of the bombings of NATO Member States, where appropriate. There is no such thing as one bomb serving peace and the other serving conflict! This would be good for Hungary to decide, and I would very much like it if we tried to do anything in these conflicted geopolitical areas or countries to restore peace, so that we not only warn ourselves about this, and not only ourselves, but we also expect our allies to do so. For if we are members of a defence alliance like NATO, then let us not act like an aggressor alliance and serve aggressor interests. No one obliges us to actually fight in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria or elsewhere with the help of Hungarian soldiers - I add, for any party - in fact. We have one task if we want to achieve this proposal and the very right idea or objectives behind the proposal, which are only to be supported, that we are consistent in the interests of peace, not only in such proposals, not only in words, but in actions. Which means that we do not accept without criticism, especially not requests for any role in war or conflict, but we do see what their real content is, what their real purpose is, and what future Hungary can have in terms of staying out of it or joining these actions. [[11.10]] And it cannot be so hypocritically; let us recall that it was not so long ago that we decided to take military action against the Islamic State here in this House. It was also a double speech, and it was a double standard. And it is impossible to explain a military intervention by sending soldiers to protect Christians in the Middle East that this cannot continue. What about African Christians? Why don't we send soldiers there? When I read these actual and actual examples on your head, I am talking about the fact that we should not mislead society in this way, but that we should be openly told that, yes, whether the United States or Brussels or others have ordered us to do so, and that we are now in our political interest or so that we can compensate for our failure to do so unconditionally. But let us not mislead Hungarian society with such nonsense, and at least let us not deceive one another that the protection of one Christian community is important, not the protection of another; one terrorist organisation, such as the Islamic State, must act, but let us say, against Boko Haram not in Africa. It would be good to represent this by either consistently doing everything along the lines of these principles, or by consistently taking only Hungarian society and Hungarian security as our primary priority, and not participating in any of them, but doing everything we can to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. If this responsibility and this consistency, let us say, be able to go through with the government through cycles, I think that is the best way to contribute to peace and humanitarian goals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-05-28	I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-05-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid, it is clear that what is being formulated within the framework of the draft law must be fundamentally supported. Nevertheless, or together with all this, there are some objections to the draft law that I would like to mention. In addition to these two items, the amendment on public procurement is also included in the draft law. What I see here is that processes are taking place that seem to show a rise in legislative hecticity over the past few years. I would like to recall why I say all this in my introductory thoughts, that in relation to the first two items, namely development and humanitarian aid, almost a year ago, since 2014. CHAPTER XI 18 months, if I remember correctly, was the time when we adopted the draft law at that time with the joint support of the factions, perhaps with 6 votes against or with abstentions; after a six-month period, it took effect during the summer period, and now we are going to live the first days of November 15, and we are making changes in the third part of this draft law, in terms of public procurement, while today we are going to discuss the law on the last item on the agenda, the one that came into force on 1 November, i.e. it was adopted, and today, on 5 November, it will be amended again. You understand, don't you, the context? So, it is simply frightening that, in the course of a few days, after a week or two, you will bring what you have brought into the walls of Parliament, and amend it, in practical, calm spirit, and bring it into the walls of Parliament in an unprepared form, because if this work was considered in the preparation of the law, you would stand the test of time, not for a week, not for a month, but for at least for years in the case of a public procurement law and other laws. But let us not just talk about the formal part, about development cooperation itself or about humanitarian aid issues. With regard to development cooperation, as I see it, I can say that where progress in terms of knowledge transfer or technological transfer can be made in relation to such cooperation, it is only natural to be supportive of shaping processes. Obviously, this is equally true, I can say, in terms of areas of expertise or professional areas, also in terms of education and health, in terms of the expansion of contact systems and the strengthening of them. And in my view, it is at least as important that, in the framework of such development cooperation, Hungarian business organisations and businesses are able to strengthen positionally, to move forward, to find help in terms of access to the foreign market, compared to today's opportunities, whether there is any potential expansion in this story. I think that it may be, and therefore obviously this part of my direction deserves support. It is obviously important not only to develop external relations but also to develop external relations overall. I would like to include all these in the framework of international development cooperation, and, if that is the case, I think that it is worth putting a draft law within the walls of Parliament on the one hand, even once again, and it is worth supporting these processes. There is another part of this bill, which if I really want to simplify it, I say is the part on combating poverty. I would like to mention here, in any case, that I do not wish to leave the framework of the draft law very much and to engage in adventures, but I would like to mention that we, in Hungary, also have work to do to resolve and mitigate these issues in Hungary. You can see the trends and trends of the past years, which I can now tell you, and the processes that have developed in terms of poverty are felt. I will not go into details, but you know very well that when, after a closed year, the National Tax and Customs Office shows that there are 2.2 million people in Hungary who earn their income below the minimum living standards, or more than 1.3 million people who either are earning or not earning the minimum wage, it is obvious that there is work to be done in this respect and within the limits of the national borders, especially if we are clearly moving forward in Europe, in relation to the countries around us, not in time, but in process, step by step, but back. But I do not want to deal more closely with the processes within Hungary, and I raise this only in the context of the question that, when our solidarity and many other assistance are shown in this respect, we must also think about what is happening within the borders and not only think about it, but also take concrete action to enable these processes to undergo positive changes. That is, very simply translated: the situation of people living in Hungary should be better tomorrow than it is today, or it should be better the day after tomorrow than it will be tomorrow. But let us not lock ourselves in this inner cage within Hungary, so I will return to the draft law itself, and here, in particular, I would like to give some thought to the issue of cooperation. [[11.20]] Obviously, the range of cooperating organisations should be broadened as far as possible and extended as possible. No matter who we are talking about, in the sense that social partners beyond the parliamentary parties, which, of course, from culture through science, can be many people through interest representatives and can be strengthened with the involvement of civilians. My questions here are, in effect, that I understand that this system of cooperation is inspired by the draft law, but I would like to know its format, its regularity, the development of its mechanism, that if and if such a cooperation circle is put together in order to solve these problems, let us say how this mechanism of operation looks; at what time or what generates it, that these circles meet in a given situation; or do these social partners, allies have room for manoeuvre in order not only to be involved in the story, but also in forming, forming and proposing. I think that all the organisations that may be present in this assistance function, obviously here, starting from the administrative machine, so starting from ministerial platforms, through disaster protection to many other things, Attila Mesterházy has already spoken about it in his main speech, through the Red Cross or the Red Crescent movement to many people, how these organisations can be given the opportunity to make real, real influence, to enforce their intentions, their will, their ability to help. Don't just - and as I said, I put it in quotes - be the participants of these processes. And the question that Attila Mesterházy asked me, I would also like to ask, in a confirmatory way, why, with regard to churches, we do not have the kind of positive directivism that churches should be involved in cooperating partners on these issues to solve the task. Nor is it an answer to me that churches will enforce and support processes through civil society organisations like this, no! I think that the Church's attitude to this type of question should be done on the ground, and I trust that it is done. So I have no doubt about it, but, then, in the context of a draft law, let it all come back to me. And in fact, the other issue of such concern is the scope of financing issues, the removal of chapter appropriations from the draft law, so that this is no longer reflected in the annual budget. And I do not consider it a form for the Minister for Foreign Policy to draw up reports in these stories. If my memories don't cheat on me, then every year is VII. This happened until 31st of October, now with an amendment to Annex VIII. until 31st of the month. Actually, I don't understand why there's this one-month slippery shift, but what's not formal, it's content, why the reports don't fall into the walls of the Parliament? I think this is a matter of weight in both cases, whether in terms of development cooperation or humanitarian aid, which should indeed be discussed between the Parliament's walls. But as Attila Mesterházy said in his keynote speech, at least before the committees of the Parliament, the handling of these issues should appear, no question. Although I think it should appear before the National Assembly. And I have one more question, a doubt, actually, but it may be possible to dissipate that doubt and straighten it out with the answer. This can be described as a matter of pre-qualified civil society organisations. I don't really see the criteria for these pre-grades, how they are, how they are. It would be good for the Secretary of State to answer that question. And here I would like to go back to the issue of public procurement once again in relation to the final thoughts, because this is the third part of this draft law on which it concerns the non-application of EU thresholds, here it is about these issues with regard to foreign aid or humanitarian aid. What I would like to tell you here is that when we are discussing this in the framework of this draft law today, when we talk about public procurement directly, we will decide that there is an automatic public procurement obligation for improvements with European Union or Hungarian state aid with a threshold of more than HUF 25 million. Of course, I have to add, not in the future, if this is done or combined with individual government decisions or individual job creation support. So, it would be worth considering, considering, on a given day, what will be drafted within the framework of the law of 6985 and the law of 6983, which will be discussed in the last agenda, in the framework of the public procurement law. And for the last minute, I would just like to add a thought to what my fellow Member Vejkey has said. I wouldn't open it, but with an indication, I would say that when my fellow Member makes use of the critical wording that has already been discussed on one side, on the other, even with regard to the leaders of the European Union, on which I do not want to argue with you, so that there is no misunderstanding, I would just like to say that there is a popular majority in Europe. You certainly know and know it, so I hope that when you put these messages in writing, you know who you're going to say this to, and I'll put it in a quotation mark, the thoughts you're going to think of as well-intentioned are formulated in this way. That's what I wanted to draw your attention to. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-05-30	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2015-11-05-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I still owe the Secretary of State a few amendments that I would like to submit. The essence of these would be to ask the factions to be involved in the preparation of the policy strategy, since it is possible to explain our own aspects in a preparatory work. If I understood correctly in the proposal, there will be an action plan, and there is a planning process in this. I don't see it in this, but maybe I don't, the role of the Institute of Foreign Affairs, because there's a serious research result there. If the reason the Institute of Foreign Affairs is not listed separately is because it is evident that the Ministry uses this, then it is also an answer to this. The other thing I think is important is that the strategy and the report are at least presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. If I understand correctly, other opposition factions have asked the government to do so. And the third is that I would not shy away from it, and I have suggested this earlier, that when we talk about partner countries, priority target countries, countries inhabited by Hungarian communities across the border should have a special emphasis. The last time I made this proposal, they said that this issue could not be made exclusive. The draft decision or the amendment proposal may then have been a little strict or limited, but if a, with special attention to the types of preparation for the Hungarian countries occupied by Hungarian communities across the border, I think it would be useful in any way, because there is a serious conflict in our neighbourhood, in Transcarpathia, which also affects the Hungarian community there, or could affect it more than now. These would have been the comments that were left out of my previous statement, taking advantage of the opportunity for my fellow Member Imre Vejkey to return to the room. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: It was a TAB meeting!]] In fact, in relation to what he has said, let me make one or two more comments. My fellow Member said that Europe's leaders are inadequate and able to betray their own nation and sacrifice their own people and expect a kind of unconditional solidarity. [[11.30]] I hope that when the Prime Minister was out at the EPP Congress, he told these incompetent right-wing leaders. After all, as Nándor Gúr said, Europe is currently governed by right-wing leadership, at least most of them certainly are. One of the incompetent leaders, I think, Merkel, the other, the Spanish Prime Minister, the third, the Finnish, or perhaps the British, can be told that they do not want to disturb all the Hungarian European Union citizens who work there in Central and Eastern Europe. I think that the KDNP would have something to do in this party family, too, to draw the attention of these inadequate right-wing European leaders. Secondly, these right-wing leaders and Europe do not expect unconditional solidarity. It is worth saying this in a debate in this Parliament, as sovereignty is violated in the same way as the basis of the European Union as a whole. I think you know, too, that the European Union is basically based on a quota system. Now it is distributed not only in respect of refugees, but also in general, from the allocation of resources, on the basis of almost all quotas. There is no other way to be fairly distributed. So the European Union has been described earlier as giving up a small piece of its national sovereignty, putting it in the mix, and so to speak, if it is possible to put it so pathically, together with these small pieces of sovereignty. And this is not from the devil, and I think it is noticeable in the practice of the Hungarian government that, for example, as a citizen, my sovereignty is restricted. For example, I have not been asked, but not just me, the other voters, whether I want to go to the store on Sunday or not, speaking of a KDNP representative. I do not understand exactly how you are asking anyone that the sovereignty of the people is violated when, in a very specific example in Hungary, they are doing nothing but hiding from the possibility of asking the Hungarian people whether they want the shops to be closed, for example, on Sunday in Hungary. Just as there are many other issues, thank God, the government doesn't ask the people every single time because it wouldn't really work. They do not ask how many stadiums should be built on Felcsút or not, nor are they asked to spend more on agriculture, where appropriate, on EU funds, which Hungary receives on the basis of quotas, or to spend on small and medium-sized enterprises or social spending. I would also argue, my fellow Member, that you have said that you have started the sentence correctly, at least in my view that civil society organisations in Hungary have done a very serious humanitarian activity in the context of the refugee crisis. I think that they have all the respect and respect in this and those Hungarian citizens who have also contributed to the relief or, where appropriate, the elimination of this humanitarian disaster. But with which he continued his comment, which was about . and Hungary, including the Hungarian Government, in this my opinion differs from yours. I think that the Hungarian government has not done everything in its power to ease this humanitarian disaster. Hungary has done so through its civil society organisations and its citizens. I have always criticised, in this respect, for government actions, why border protection precludes the concept of assistance. Why can't we, while respecting EU rules, also respect the values and standards that, for example, are dictated by Christianity or other international conventions to those who have undertaken to do so or who believe in these values? So I think that compliance with the rules, border protection, respect for fair processes are not against giving people who have escaped here some kind of humane and humane treatment. I believe that this has been lacking in government activity, and I am sure that this could have been the subject of criticism. This is true even if it is true that, in many cases, the international image of Hungary in the world, which has been presented to the world by various international press organisations, has not always reflected reality or reality. In this there was also, of course, that it destroyed the overall picture in Hungary without real truth or reality behind it. I would therefore ask my fellow Member not to make the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government more difficult by making statements that will then generate a number of conflicts and problems in foreign policy, whether it be the opening up of the East, whether it be the Islamic community, or whether it is the operation of the Fidesz or the Christian Democratic People's Party within the European People's Party. These questions should probably be placed on the table with such force, not just at home, in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-11-05-32	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, to respond to what has been said.
u2015-11-05-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for the complimentary and benevolently critical contributions. From these, I read that there is basically agreement between the parliamentary factions that the objectives of the bill are legitimate, these are objectives that arise both from a moral obligation and from very practical considerations. And basically there is agreement that these goals should be supported and implemented as quickly, efficiently, as easily as possible, with the greatest added value, whether from a Hungarian economic or other diplomatic point of view. Dear House, If I may, I would briefly reflect on what has been said. The fact that the government itself refers to the need to make our international aid and development aid policy more efficient and smoother does not result from the realization that Europe is now suddenly faced with a humanitarian challenge that has not been faced before, or at least for many decades. On this basis, it could be assumed that this international policy had not been of any particular importance before, until now that the consequences are at our door, it suddenly became important. It's not that. We do not point out this argument, but that today all Hungarian citizens and all European citizens can experience tangible consequences of this policy's failure or even insufficient, unsatisfactory nature. Today, it is perhaps more clear to the average European citizen than ever before that without an effective international aid and humanitarian policy, he must face the same personal consequences that he has probably never had before. In this way, I think that the social admissibility and social understanding of this policy can be given greater scope, with a greater chance of achieving it than before. Of course, it could be foreseen that if some steps were missed by the international community, or if the international community took certain wrong steps, these consequences would be at the gates of Europe in a foreseeable time. Dear House, I would like to stress that there is still a dual set of objectives for our international support and aid policy, which is aimed at self-defence, at removing the effects that Europe is currently facing and, on the other hand, at enforcing our economic diplomacy interests in different regions of the world; of course, honourable Members, in particular, those regions and countries from which the actors of the Hungarian economy have the highest added value, can hope for the greatest additional benefit. And, of course, we also take very much into account the fact that the countries where the Hungarian minority, the Hungarian communities there, can benefit greatly from this support. A concrete impact of this in the draft law is our proposal that Ukraine, second place Serbia, then the other countries in the region, where part of the Hungarian population is present, and where Hungarian economic diplomacy interests exist which give priority to these countries. As far as the specific points are concerned, Honourable House. Since the bill itself proposes technical amendments, it makes sense that these amendments are mostly technical in nature and can be divided into two groups. [[11.40]] On the one hand, we would like to extend significantly the legitimacy base of this international aid and support policy by involving organisations, entities - whether we are talking about the civil sphere or entities within the government - in this policy, which can contribute to the targeted arrival of funds in places where they are most useful or, in terms of implementation, with them, especially civil society organisations related to churches or churches. I would like to emphasise the point raised by Mr Mesterházy that the churches will, of course, be directly involved in the consultation mechanism, but we are primarily counting on them in terms of implementation. In the past, our regional development and humanitarian policy has been largely implemented through the churches, and we would like it to continue in the future, because the churches are the communities that are perhaps the most reliable in terms of providing humanitarian aid to Transcarpathia, for example, in places where they are really needed. This, of course, remains a priority for the government. As regards technical issues or suggestions, such as the roll-out in chapter management appropriations or the inter-ministerial committee or the definition of the principle on which the actors will be included in the ex ante consultation mechanism, we will, of course, be informed in the detailed debate on Monday by the Commission. I would not go into these technical details now, but these have been noted, and, of course, we will look at the amendments made by the Member greatly and, as far as possible, will be incorporated into the bill. As far as appropriations are concerned, I would like to point out that the government's margin of manoeuvre is relatively limited in this regard, because the majority of our NEFE activity is carried out through channels, mechanisms that can be considered to be specific, so these are compulsory contributions, various mandatory payments to support the activities of international organisations that are active in achieving that objective. For example, the EU mechanism to which approximately EUR 3 million has been paid will soon be implemented as a result of a recent government decision. In this way, too, we demonstrate our commitment, which we have repeatedly said, that crises, the consequences of which are at the European gates and at the heart of Europe, must be managed at their root, and we must contribute as much as possible to enabling those seeking a better life in Europe to survive at home and to survive war times in decent conditions. With regard to the coherence of the logic of Jobbik's reasoning, this, if I may, would not be fully understood by this House, because I believe that I am discovering incoherent elements. When you say, Mr President, that, on the one hand, extreme Islam and a phenomenon against which action must be taken and, on the other hand, you add the criticism of why Hungary is actively involved in the fight against the Islamic State, for example, in the region of Erbil, it is difficult for me to interpret this. However, we can agree, honourable Member, that it is not enough to help ease or resolve conflicts in the Middle East with financial contributions, but Hungary is one of the few European countries that are also taking military part in this fight. I think that this is fully in line with our policy to address at its root, in the region, the phenomena that call attention to the fact that, without significant humanitarian activity and development policy activity, we unfortunately have to face the negative consequences of its lack of it on the international stage. As far as the so-called world quota is concerned, honourable Member, I am confident that a significant part of these countries has a much greater role to play in the intellectual capacity of our call to countries in the Middle East and North Africa, such as Hungary or other European countries, so that our call is all about our desire to expect strong members of the international community, which, by virtue of their financial, political and military power, are able to contribute more than at present to the resolution of conflicts, to do so, and the great powers that have triggered conflicts that lead to the current migration crisis in Europe, to take on a greater role in preventing its consequences. Our proposal for a world quota therefore basically concerns contributions to conflict management through material and other means. As far as the organised or unorganised nature of migration is concerned, I would not enter into this debate right now. It is quite clear, honourable Member, that this process is being complicated through entrance and organised channels. This, I think, is something that everyone who has watched the events of the past months here in the middle of Europe must clearly see. I'd leave it at that. Honourable Member, to assume that this is a spontaneous process that simply started itself and maintains itself, I think that it would be far-reaching naivety. In addition, we can be all the more well-founded in our view that it is not necessarily an undesirable process for some of our partners. In several cases, statements from leading officials on behalf of various world powers have been made that indicate that it is highly desirable for these partners that Europe should not be able to mobilise significantly greater forces than the current instruments in this situation in order to avert the migration crisis. Maybe we should just leave it at that. As far as our erbilical engagement is concerned, honourable Member, I would also like to mention here the moment that I believe that this commitment strengthens Hungary's moral basis in order to say with an even greater legal basis that we need to protect the external borders of our country and of Europe, while at the same time contributing to enabling those affected to exist and live in the immediate neighbourhood of the conflict area in decent and human conditions. The Hungarian military presence in Northern Iraq contributes to this to a significant extent and once again, far above average. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman and Lords! I would like to reflect on Mr Gúr's speech in that, of course, in addition to the fact that there are certainly various social policy challenges in Hungary, I believe that this is not to be confused with our moral and political obligation to make contributions to our strength in areas far poorer than we are in the world. Of course, this failure, once again, is more than ever at the gates of Europe, in the heart of Europe. So a very pragmatic argument is also attached to this, in addition to the fact that I think that everyone, both personally and as political representatives, has an obligation to help people who are living at a significantly lower standard of living in different ways. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments will be examined. I think that some of them will be acceptable, because they are basically technical, we agree on the goal. Thank you very much for the supporting contributions, and I think that we will find a reassuring solution to all the points in the detailed debate next week in the Commission. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-05-34	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the proposal to abolish the levy on certain administrative procedures and the administrative service fee until closure. Government submission T/6988. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-11-05-35	Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the opportunity, as I have heard from my colleague and State Secretary Zoltán Kovács in recent minutes, to support, in a significant way and to an extent, beyond party standing and beyond the seat of the factions, the legislative package which, by amending 110 laws, wants to contribute to the modernisation of public administration in Hungary, the reform of the state and, first and foremost, the reduction of bureaucracy. [[11.50]] As we know, the Hungarian government is convinced that the main issue of the next few years is to strengthen Hungary's competitiveness, what economic and social policy steps can we take in order to create jobs in Hungary under more competitive conditions than we are now. We believe that the administrative state of the country, the state of the state, the way in which the state is managed and the quality of the state make a significant contribution to making Hungary one of the most competitive and powerful countries in Central Europe and even in Europe. In this way, we started to change the functioning of the state in 2010, and we wanted to bring the results achieved to a higher and faster level in 2014, when we proposed substantive steps for the government and for the legislative process. We believe that today's Hungarian government administration, the size and size of bureaucracy, the magnitude of the burden imposed on businesses, employers and citizens, taxpayers is more of a disadvantage, a competitive disadvantage than a competitive advantage. If you look carefully at the OECD report or read the opinion of employers' representatives in Hungary, see the VOSZ or Chamber of Industry and Commerce, you can see that over the last 25 years, we have a multitude of unresolved cases to cut red tape. Just one example of the OECD report: a company needs hundreds of hours of tax administration in order to manage itself in relation to the tax authority; and we have not yet talked about the burdens that would be imposed on citizens who contribute to the functioning of the State and maintain the State by way of income tax which is otherwise fair, compliant and personal income tax. Today we collect taxes from voters in Hungary so that we can organise public education, public education, public security, transport and community affairs for them. In their interests, we cannot make their lives more difficult than it is in their interests, so I think it is of paramount importance that, in addition to increasing the state's competitiveness, the feeling that the state is serving the electorate and not ruling, this should be significantly strengthened. There is a great culture in Central Europe and in the countries in which the etatist state reson traditions operate that the state organises life itself, carries out social engineering work and is much more dominant than performing service activities. This, of course, has the advantage of stability and the governance of the state, but in today's world, for many of our constituents and for many Hungarian businesses, the current Hungarian bureaucracy is more of a disadvantage than an advantage. In 2014, when the committees heard me as a candidate for ministers, I set three very simple objectives in my ministerial work for myself and my colleagues in front of Parliament's committee. One is to simplify the operation of the state and the other to speed up the operation of the state and to make the operation of the state cheaper. If these three conditions are combined, we can achieve that voters are more satisfied and that businesses can be more competitive. For the sake of simpler administration, we are discussing this package of 110 laws, and there is a great chance that legislation will accept this. It is unprecedented that, in order to reduce bureaucracy, by reducing bureaucracy, Hungary will make such a decision for the competitiveness of businesses. In the last thirty years, Parliament has never amended 110 laws to reduce bureaucracy in order to make businesses, employers or simply to improve the quality of life of voters. This is necessary, because your ambitions, our ambitions, which we set out before 2010 or 2010 have only half fulfilled the expectations attached to it. A good example of this is that when the Parliament voted by overwhelming majority to reduce the general administrative deadline, it withdrew two thirds of the cases dealt with by the State from the general administrative deadline at that time and a little later; even though the general administration period had fallen below 30 days, the Parliament passed the laws immediately and the government made regulations to prevent whom from being subject to the deadline. Today we are talking about the fact that, although according to the paper form, the general administration deadline, with which the citizens, taxpayers, should be dealt with, is low by looking at the exceptions, then two thirds of the cases dealt with by citizens fall under the exception category, harder to handle than before. These anomalies are also eliminated by this package of laws, and I would like to thank you for your support here and now. I would like to thank you for the infrastructure improvements from European Union funds already launched before 2010, which contribute to faster administration. It will not only be easier but faster for businesses and individuals if we can provide a service of good quality in 270 government windows and 197 districts in Hungary. We have just calculated that it is about HUF 40 billion that the country is currently spending on these investments, partly as a result of our taxpayers and partly as a result of the support of the European Union. I would like to point out that the Hungarian administration, in the history of the Hungarian organised public administration, did not have such an amount of public administration infrastructure. When the state had to recover after 1920, after Trianon, they spent a similar amount of money because of the country-mutilating effects of the Trianon peace dictatorship, but basically in the administration for infrastructure development and modernisation so much money has not yet been spent. Moreover, there is a social consensus, I can say, on political consensus in the operation of the district system, in the formation and maintenance of the districts. We are sure to be able to tell our voters, there are 197 points in Hungary where we are at the disposal of Hungarian voters through 270 government windows. We've got two thousand assistant agents going out to the small settlements and running errands on the spot. We spend ten billion on 270 government windows, 190 government windows have been handed over. This year, the program closes around, at least one in each district office, at least one in each district, but we are waiting for customers in two government windows to make the administration faster. I'm getting to the substance of the proposal now. In addition to complementing the series of legislative proposals and decisions for simpler and faster administration, the proposal can answer a very important question. For a voter or contractor, it is important to know where he can handle his case, how he can handle his case and how much he can handle it. For what? The answer to a question must be given. In fact, I am on the principle that if I paid personal income tax, along with many of my fellow voters, the state will provide these services free of charge to me, otherwise why do you collect taxes from me? Unfortunately, we are not yet in a position to put this question on the Parliament's table, to look at it, but if we have collected these levies and contributions for hundreds of years now, then what will voters pay the tax for? This is one of those delicate questions that hasn't come up yet. But for the first time since the launch of the modern municipal and administrative system since 1990, the budget gave us the opportunity to reduce the amount of procedural and service charges in the Hungarian administration. This is a very important step. The Hungarian administration, the Hungarian voters, has 23 million cases with each other, and this will affect a very significant part of the issues; in the detailed debates, whether in the committee or here in Parliament's comments, my colleague, Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary for Public Administration, will describe them in detail. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in a way that is not typical of the history of the governments that have been implemented since 90, almost for the first time before a fee reduction, a consultation took place, and in the 197 district office 400 thousand Hungarian compatriots replied to the question of what should be the tariff package that will be reduced. Now that you have put on the agenda the discussion of this bill, you will also comply with the intention and wish of our fellow voter to give 400,000 opinions on the negotiation. These are charges that affect the lives of voters in substance and directly. These fees will cease or be levied. With regard to the issue of documents relating to citizens, documents relating to inheritance, the issue of an official certificate of morality, the issue of documents for identification of persons or the issue of a driver's licence, the issue of the admission procedure for higher education, the education card, the first driving licence for students, the replacement of the Parking Certificate for the disabled in the case of our fellow citizens, the request for a building permit of less than 160 sq m in the case of construction, i.e. in the case of voters who build a house of less than 160 sq m - essentially 90 per cent of their number for all individuals living in Hungary - in the case of enterprises, the issue of tax certificates, the issue of company documents, the electronic transmission of electronic documents in the register of companies, partly a bureaucratic procedural discount, i.e. reducing the procedure in time and partly a financial discount. [[12.00]] Only the official moral certificate, which is a condition for all applications, costs Hungarian voters 1 billion HUF 200 million a year. We are proposing to put an end to this. The registration of ownership and beneficial right in the event of succession represents a financial burden for voters of HUF 1.3 billion. We are now proposing to abolish this. The issue of tax certificates to Hungarian entrepreneurs per year is a burden of 1 billion for Hungarian businesses, with the amount of time taken and time lost. The publication of corporate disclosure fees, accounting disclosure fees and accounting reports represents HUF 1.5 billion in expenses to Hungarian businesses. The change of the document due to the change of name, if a person is forced to change the document due to a change of name, is a HUF 700 million expense. I could say more about issuing educational certificates, which is 500 million forints for voters. Only a few examples have been taken out of the line that we are proposing to eliminate and lead out in order to answer the questions where, what, why and for how much we can answer in the Hungarian administration. This is a first step, and I would like to inform the Parliament that the fee reduction will continue. Next year, we'll launch another action in 197 districts, ask the voters again in the spring. In June, July and August this year, there was an opportunity to give an opinion. We will launch another action in order to give their opinion on what else of the remaining fees they feel is a disproportionate burden. In the meantime, I would like to point out that, while the Parliament is amending 110 laws, it is now starting to reform the legislation on the amendment of administrative procedural service charges, and we will be proposing this year to open the public service career model of colleagues working in the territorial administration by July 2016. In the first step, 35 thousand government officials working in regional administrations will be directly affected by this, who, divided into 197 district offices, in the operation of 20 government offices, now have a clear, transparent, simple and clear structural system of public administration, taking on far more extra tasks from other government-led organisations, I think they can count on a career model of stability presented by the government to Parliament. I can tell you that for a worker working in a district office, working on the issue of personal documents or issuing vehicle documents, who are employees of the Hungarian state, a 30% wage increase will be reported at local level, regional level, in the first step from 1 July 2016. Otherwise, these workers are usually employed for between HUF 80 and 120 thousand, and I believe that decent work can only be expected of them and that it is a task to do their job as service providers for the community, if there is a predictable career ahead of them, and the Hungarian state pays for it. Our hope is that this package of bureaucracy cuts, there is no complete restructuring of construction, there is no complete reorganization of access to European Union funds, there is no complete reorganisation of tax procedures, what the government has decided to do, we expect Tállai State Secretary to propose a tax procedure, the Prime Minister's Office will prepare reform proposals for construction with 600 architects, and the conversion of EU funds will take place through a continuous monitoring procedure with the involvement of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other interest representatives, which, together, I hope, will make a substantial change in the coming years in a short time. Despite the differences in party policy, we ask for your support, despite the differences in conviction, in order to make public administration more effective, to implement state reform, to rationalise the state, to reduce bureaucracy and to improve competitiveness, these decisions will be taken. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-05-36	Thank you very much, Minister. With all due respect, we will continue our work, and there will be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, While the government is making a number of efforts to cut red tape, T/6988 on the abolition of fees and administrative service charges for certain official procedures. The possibility of reducing even more bureaucratic burdens on citizens is raised in the course of the negotiation of the legislative proposal. The Government has initiated a public consultation with citizens and businesses on the reduction of administrative procedural fees and charges and, in certain cases, the abolition of charges. Thus, the bill is based on the public consultation conducted by the government with the involvement of the metropolitan and county government offices and district and district government offices. More specifically, during the public consultation held between 5 June and 6 August 2015, citizens and businesses had the opportunity to propose fees and charges for official procedures for which they proposed to abolish or reduce. As far as I know, nearly 400 thousand questionnaires have been completed, which already provide an appropriate basis for the reduction of public fees and charges for individuals and businesses. Consequently, the primary objective of the bill is to alleviate the administrative and financial burden of the necessary exchange of documents for the Hungarian population in line with the reduction of bureaucracy. On the basis of the submission, I will group the discounts below. First, I refer to the issue of documents concerning Hungarian citizens and to matters related to the registration of property rights relating to the succession. These will include the termination of the procedural fee for issuing a permanent identity card or an official card certifying the address, and the official identification card certifying the address will cease on 31 December 2025, after everyone has a new type of electronic identity card. During the exchange of documents following the change of name resulting from the change in marital status, the replacement of the driving licence, the registration and registration of motor vehicles will be free of charge. The exchange of official procedures to replace stolen documents, such as the previously mentioned driver's licence, registration certificate, registration book and social security identification mark and tax identification card will also be free of charge. The registration of property rights in the real estate registration procedure, if this is carried out under inheritance title; the issuing of an official moral certificate, which can be claimed four times a year and free of charge on the basis of the motion, I believe that this will result in virtually total exemption from fees, as I do not believe that more than four times a year there is a need for an official moral certificate. I would like to highlight the benefits of students and young people. Thus, the admission procedure will be free of charge, the student card, the teacher's card, the issue of the instructor's card, and the issue of a driver's licence for the first time, especially for young people, will be free of charge. Among the discounts for people with disabilities, I mention the replacement of the Parking ID for disabled people, and the procedure for registering the sign language interpreter will also be free of charge. Among the construction benefits, I mention, as Minister said, the authorisation of the construction of separate buildings with a floor area of less than 160 sq m and the procedure for entry into service. [[12.10]] As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, the issue of certain official certificates, the issue of company extracts, company copies and company certificates, the electronic transmission of electronic documents in the register of companies, the issuing of business certificates, the procedures for the authorisation of the operation of shops, the publication of the accounting report of the company publication fees, all companies had to do so by 31 May, the issuing of agricultural and forestry machine management licenses and the official procedure for the Folk Industrial Art Certificate will also be free of charge. In the multi-stage process of government public administration reform, this is the third step, the ultimate goal of which is to make citizens pay less for official procedures. Article XXVI of the Fundamental Law It also states that the State is seeking to implement new technical solutions and scientific results in order to improve the efficiency of its operation, to improve the quality of public services, to improve transparency in public matters and to promote equal opportunities. By making all this more effective, I think we all agree, because rationalisation is in the interests of the whole country. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In its decision to set up the State Reform Commission, the Government examined the measures relating to bureaucracy reduction and agreed with the reform of public administration in accordance with its provisions. I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-05-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy, lead speaker for the group of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-05-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár - I can now say, as usual - begins with large state-theoretical discussions on certain points of detail. I would like to respond very briefly to this, at least to the fact that we still cannot agree with Minister Lazarus on state-theoretical issues. We cannot agree with paternalist, centralised, authoritarian legislation and government structures that erod the system of brakes and counterweights, negligating or negling the rule of law's conditionality and idea, which you have developed. It is necessary to anticipate this because when we talk about public administration and administrative matters, it is actually part of this great whole. Before anyone thinks that we have taken note of and accepted the order of state, the state structure that you have created, it is necessary to state that this is not the case for any such bill. So from a state theory point of view, we don't share any of your values and aspirations. However, we can already agree on much more in administrative matters. We can agree with their efforts to cut red tape, which we ourselves have preferred under our governance. I think if we look back at the last 25 years, that's the kind of ambition every government has. This is nothing new from you, it was natural for all governments. It would be good, by the way, and I would also like to note that this applies not only to bureaucracy but also to public governance. I would like to think about this for my fellow Members. Somewhere smiling, of course, if we are a little more humorous about it, but I could say that it is untenable that there are more state leaders, more state ministers and ministers than there are members of the Hungarian Parliament. So the fact that you are on the one hand cutting red tape is the right effort, but it would be good to do so at government level, it would be good to reduce the number of state leaders, let's say, by half, as it was at the time when they took over government from us. There may be ten ministers in this horseshoe, but the number of State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys is over 200. Once again, the number of Hungarian Parliaments is 199, the number of senior members of the executive power is higher than the total number of a representative of the people, at least this refers to a very bad and very wasteful government system. I will return to what we can agree with in your efforts. This was the recent package of laws aimed at speeding up administrative procedures. Because thank God, they basically followed the principle that they want to speed up procedures without compromising the customer's rights. This is a refreshing novelty from you, because, let's say, in civil procedural law and, above all, in criminal law, you have always wanted to speed up the process by violating loaded rights and customer rights. In other words, they wanted to ensure faster progress in criminal proceedings by removing certain options and permissions from the burden instead of doing the same, let us say, with regard to the prosecutor's office. If I wanted to use an analogy, they would do so here in the field of administrative procedures. There were exceptions here, and we put forward amendments to them at the time. I'm sorry that you disagreed with the majority of them because they fit in with your acceleration concept. We are now in the process of reducing individual procedural charges and charges. I can tell you that we're basically on the same page. I will make some critical remarks, because if you think the economy is going so well, it will perform so well, then these steps will certainly fit in. What I'm asking is why, if you've already decided to move in this direction, you'll only want to achieve this in a total amount of HUF 10 billion, which is a minimal, negligible proportion of the budget. If we look at where else we could save money in order to make the procedures tax-free more fully possible, then I think we could find a lot of these places, starting with the classic stadium constructions, everyone can say at least ten such areas where you spend the money instead of saving money. To put it bluntly, I would like to say that the effort is fundamentally to be rewarded, but it would be better if it happened a little more widely. We are also pleased, by the way, that Minister Lazarus has announced that he wants to achieve what the socialists have said from time to time, namely that a significant increase in wages and wage increases cannot be avoided. It seems that at least in this sector, and even if not 50 percent, they intend to achieve it by 30 percent. We are pleased that this proposal, it seems, will be taken over, because it is not really about who is implementing it, but what is important is that it is implemented. In other words, if such a proposal is presented to the House, the Socialist Party will certainly support this. We will certainly have an amending proposal on this, because we believe and our analyses show that this should be at least 50 percent. So it would be worth considering here, too, to regroup a little more resources for this purpose. In any case, this effort should also be supported. However, I would like to highlight some of the professional criticisms of the proposal. The administrative procedure shall be subject to the levy laid down in the Law on Charges. A fee shall be paid for certain administrative procedures and for the use of administrative services of certain institutions, as well as for certain legal acts and services. [[12.20]] Thus, in practice, for administrative procedures, payment is made in the form of a payment obligation, a fee or a levy. The procedure for issuing a moral certificate or, for example, the registration of sign language interpreters has so far not been subject to a levy but to an administrative service fee. As a professional question, what is the concept behind the fact that the procedures that have been subject to charges to date will be procedures for the payment of a levy. I couldn't find an answer to that in the bill. For the first instance administrative procedure, unless otherwise provided in the Annex to the Law on Charges, a fee of HUF 3 000 is now payable. This is, by the way, the general procedural levy. The administrative procedural duty adjusted to the value shall be based on the value of the subject-matter of the proceedings at the time of the initiation of the proceedings. At the same time, the basis for setting the administrative service fee shall be the procedural costs incurred by the procedure concerned. It is possible that the change of concept will point to a future that will increasingly be adapted to the value of the subject-matter of the procedure rather than to the actual costs of the procedure, from the customer's side to the amount to be paid for the procedure. In the absence of an impact study, it is not certain at all - and I would ask the Secretary of State whether or not they can say something about this - that this will not make administrative procedures for citizens and businesses ever more expensive, because they want to change the system of fees and fees to another system here. It is to be welcomed that the amendment of the levy law in itself makes some procedures free of charge for the same customer at all times, but different in other proceedings according to the applicants. However, it should be noted that it is a duty-free procedure where, in most cases, a document must be drawn up from a public official register - I am referring to large public registers here - the cost of which is essentially only slightly more than the cost of production of the document itself. They also justify tax exemption for reasons of public security, such as the provision of the documents necessary for the certification of the identity card, which is also encouraged by the State with no charge; it is a right thing to do in absolute order. At the same time, the procedure for issuing a card and a tax card, which is also issued from public-credit registers, will cease to be subject to payment, but this is not described as a tax exemption in the proposal. I ask the Secretary of State why this is happening. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the criticisms, the MSZP can and will support this proposal. We would encourage the government to continue this process and to adapt the procedures of individual bodies which lead to an unrealisticly high fee revenue - let me give an example of the procedures conducted by the National Intellectual Property Office - at least to the costs of the procedure. It would be useful to review procedures where the level of procedural fees is in fact far from proportionate to the procedure and the cost of the procedure which is, if you will, carried out as a consideration. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we support the proposal, but we are asking the government and the author, who is the same in this case, to consider the amendments that we have tabled, because again, as in the previous package of proposals, they do not want to change the concept, they are not attacking it, but they want to supplement it with technical proposals and make it better. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-05-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-41	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In its Government decision establishing the State Reform Committee, the Government reviewed the measures on bureaucracy and agreed with the state administration reform. One of the aims of the reform of public administration is to simplify or eliminate the administrative burden on a wide range of citizens and businesses. In view of the fact that the administrative burden which also creates payment obligations primarily affects citizens and businesses in the form of a levy and an obligation to pay an administrative service fee, the Government therefore requested the views of those concerned to determine the fees or charges to be abolished. The government has initiated a public consultation with citizens and businesses on the reduction of fees for official procedures or the free of charge. The legislative amendments were prepared taking into account proposals from citizens and businesses and data on public procedures affecting citizens and businesses. The aim of the bill on the abolition of fees and administrative service charges for certain administrative procedures is to eliminate certain charges and administrative service charges payable by administrative authorities in order to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. The fees and administrative service charges to be paid in the course of the procedures conducted by the administrative authorities have so far increased the financial burden on citizens and businesses. The purpose of the amendment to the levy law is to reduce the administrative and financial burden on citizens resulting from the necessary exchange of documents. As a result of this amendment, the following procedures will become tax-free: procedure for issuing a permanent identity card and an official identity card; official procedure for exchanging documents due to a change of name due to a change in marital status; procedure for replacing a stolen document; official procedure for replacing a parking card for a limited person in his movements; official certificate; education certificate; agricultural and forestry machinery management licence; and procedure for entrepreneurship certificate, business licence; procedure for a folk art certificate; and the issue of company documents and a copy of company documents if requested by the company's members or representatives. On the basis of the bill, the following procedures will become tax-free: the first issue of a driving licence; the authorisation procedure for a residential building with a construction permit of less than 160 square metres of useful floor space, which does not contain a separate unit of destination; and the issue of all tax certificates will also be exempt from tax, further simplifying the administration of cases in which the acquisition of a tax authority certificate may be necessary. As a result of an amendment to the Act on ways of identification replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes, the citizen shall be exempt from payment of the administrative service fee if the tax identification mark and the replacement of the official identity card certifying the social security identification mark have become necessary as a result of its theft. The amendment reduces the burden on citizens to register inheritance-related property rights and beneficial property rights by extending the scope of the substantive exemption of real estate registration procedures. As a result of the amendment, a limited person is exempted from payment of an administrative service fee for the replacement of a parking document. With the amendment of the Hungarian Sign Language and the Act on the Use of Hungarian Sign Language, the official procedure related to the inclusion of the Sign Language Interpreter in the register will also be free of charge. [[12.30]] Currently, an administrative service fee is payable for the issue of student IDs and teacher IDs. With the amendment of the National Public Education Act, the official procedures related to the issue of these certificates will also be free of charge. Please support T/6988 on the abolition of fees and administrative service charges for certain official procedures. Bill No. 1. KDNP supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-05-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Here comes the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I promise I will not take advantage of the time available, as the proposal can be supported, I will not surprise you if these reductions or tax cancellations are, of course, supported by Jobbik. I would also like to highlight a few things, and I would also like to mention what we may be missing, but I have to say in advance that, of course, every step, even if we do not consider it a world savior, but if it reduces the burden on people and the burden on business organisations, we can support it. This is where it was said what would be, among other things, tax-free. As far as the moral certificate is concerned, in many cases - in the previous package we voted very rightly - we do not need to ask for it, so there will be cases where the moral certificate is automatically requested between two bodies, but obviously there may be other cases where, say, an employer requests this certificate. I think the possibility of a free call four times a year will be enough for most people, and in general, nothing more will probably have to be asked. We also feel it is good to ask for company statements if the company's member or representative so it is difficult to argue with this too. In the same case as in the case of the permanent identity card and the official identification card certifying the address, the exemption from the levy can only be approved, as in the case of procedures initiated as a result of a change in the name resulting from the change in the status of the family and the replacement of stolen documents, which have not yet been free of charge. It was an old demand that if someone can be proven to be damaged by, say, stealing or abducting his wallet, at least he would not have to pay an extra sum to replace the documents in it. Then construction provisions can be facilitated up to 160 square meters, which they would like to introduce as a tax exemption, and in the case of tax certificates, this may result in savings in many and, where appropriate, significant amounts, as is the registration of the change in ownership under the law of succession. Although 6600 forints in this case too, if someone inherits, and if, thank God, the inheritance is free on a straight line of course, so it is tax-free, then don't have to pay this small fee. I would like to make it very clear that it may then be possible to make these requests less rejected by the land offices, because in many cases - and I spoke about this in the previous proposal - we can see that it is okay to set narrow deadlines, it is okay that the possibility of filling the gap is narrower for the authorities, but in many cases they are trying to circumvent it by virtually throwing the submissions back on the ground, and this was very typical of the land offices; in that case, there is no need to make up for it, the procedure is closed. Well, another thing is, you have to re-submit it, you have to pay the client again. In many cases it could be done earlier - and this has been said in large numbers - that, say, with a modification or even a stamp, a patch could be passed through the original documents, in which case it could not be done, because they are all thrown back, precisely so that deadlines can be kept. I explained this in more detail than the other bill, and I would not agree to that here, but the point is that this will also be taken into account in the future. I am thinking mainly about the operation of land offices, because there are rather chaotic conditions, and we do not see them changing in a more positive sense. For example, there's one more thing I can't help but tell you that I've been told by law enforcement. According to the documents received, the administrators will receive the documents to be dealt with and not based on the location number, so it may be that they will be sent to two or three administrators to arrange the documents submitted separately, but often to the same procedure, which, imagine, will cause quite a lot of chaos and, in fact, bureaucracy, because if someone asks, say, a cancellation of a mortgage right, the cancellation declaration will be filed, and then, let's say, a change of ownership, then it will be for different administrators, and then they will have to run them among themselves, instead of being able to do so on the basis of the location number. So there are a lot of things that could be improved in the system. I am well aware that this requires a thorough analysis, and often upwards - systems are usually like this, only positive ones come up, but believe me, there are a lot of problems that could be eliminated without money. By the way, this proposal - I did not find it in the material, but if it is not included - should be included in it - so that the publication of the deed is free of charge if requested by the respective owner. It's possible to set an appropriate number limit for this, just like on the moral certificate. This is also a serious amount, if you have to ask for a full proof of ownership card from your own property, and not only let us say you look inside, because of course it is glad that www.magyarország.hu can be considered for a thousand forints, but you also have to ask for the full evidence document. I'd put that in there, too. Then it should also be said that, overall, we are talking about a few billion in these amendments, which is, of course, important to people, as I have said. In this section, I can agree with Gergely Bárándy speaking from the MSZP, that it is one thing to save money for citizens, and that is good, because it does not have to be paid, but what citizens pay with taxes, we spend the money, say, on stadium constructions and stupidities - and it is not really driven by populism, believe me - we spend it in places where we could spend those money in a better place or better place. This must also be taken into account, because it is also taken from people through tax revenues, and not just the fees or charges collected by the State. I would also like to highlight, and this is indeed an area to be examined, so that the remaining levies and fees are in synchronised with the work carried out, because in many cases we see - also for some of the cases that have now been abolished, free of charge - that these levies and fees have often been treated as additional sources of income by the authorities. So it was not just that something had to be paid or that some kind of reimbursement had to contribute to the particular citizen, but that these were obviously disproportionate fees in addition to the specific work carried out. So with these additions, as I said at the beginning, we can support the proposal, and if Minister Lazarus has already given a large speech on this, we are still waiting for further proposals in the future. We want this process not to stop, and we do not want the government to think that it can sit back and solve everything in the administration, because they will also create some problems that will have to be dealt with afterwards, and believe us when we say them in Parliament, in these cases we will definitely say it with a better purpose, based on the information received from citizens. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin is applauding.]]
u2015-11-05-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member is in the room, no one has spoken for two minutes, so we will continue our work with the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, please. [[12.40]]
u2015-11-05-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps there is an angel passing through the hall today, because this is the second legislative debate where there is consensus between the government and opposition parties, even if there are suggestions for improvement; this is not everyday in this House, certainly. I would also like to start with what my fellow Member, Mr Gergő, has already said, that what the government has now put on the table in Parliament, I think, is basically a good step in the right direction. The extent, how, the details of it can certainly be debated, but overcoming and breaking down bureaucratic obstacles for citizens must be a good government objective. That is why I say that it is worth supporting this in any way, and even encouraging the government to take even more steps and even more steps in this direction, if possible and possible. I have a request or a suggestion to the Secretary of State, the Government, that Minister Lazarus spoke of 400 thousand responses received. It may be instructive to see even the political parties' proposals that citizens have submitted. They certainly did not have ten or twenty ideas, but more than is now possible in this simplification, but it might be worth having a grouping where we can see where citizens feel the most tense in their everyday life, so where they are most hindered, where they are the biggest problem. Don't get me wrong, we're not looking for names, or at least I'm not asking if there were 400 thousand or not, but I'm really interested in where people feel these problems in everyday life. Perhaps this public aggregation or grouping can help us do this. The other thing that Congressman Lazarus was talking about. I myself have read these OECD reports on both competitiveness and much more, and I would therefore like to bring a slightly different subject in the debate, to the extent that the government should not only be thinking about levies, not only about facilitations in this regard, but I think it would be important if the government were to think - I don't know how to put it - in deregulation, simplification, or in the various excessive rules or in the so-called over-achieving legislative environment, a little simplification. What do I mean? There are a number of laws, there are a number of regulations in Hungary that restrict the competitiveness that János Lázár spoke about, and what is included in these studies, to a great extent. I have spoken to many businesses, not only large companies, but perhaps they are less disturbed by this, but in the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector I have spoken to a lot of entrepreneurs who say that EU support is not necessarily the biggest and most effective help for them, but, on the one hand, if the state were to take action against the unfair economy, against the black economy, against those who are not in fair competition; this is not the subject of today's debate in this sense. The other thing that could be the subject is that these rules should be weeded out and simplified. Many rules make it difficult for companies working in the service sector or in the production sector, from restaurants to other areas that do not make much sense, simply complicate their lives or, where appropriate, extra budget expenditure for them. And if we wanted to compare these regulations, say in relation to other Member States of the European Union, we would see that in countries that have been more western of us, which have been members of the European Union for a long time, there is no strict regulation or regulation that can be observed in Hungarian practice. And this is probably the result of these rules 20-25 years old or older. So, overall, I would like to encourage the Secretary of State and the Government to root out legislation that is unnecessarily material and other burdens on businesses in terms of legislation. In this regard, both the VOSZ and the Industry Chamber and the MGYOSZ have previously suggested that they would like to be partners in such a legislative search, which rules make business difficult, which reduces the quality of service and its competitiveness... - more precisely, its competitiveness and does not affect the quality of service, as it is important that, from consumer protection to the elimination of environmental damage, there can be many underlying goals in these rules. So, in Hungarian, as the Minister said, if, in this respect, which has now been brought into Parliament, the opinion of these organisations has been sought - rightly I think - then it might be worth going in a different direction with regard to legislation, and this could also be the way to urge the government to abolish and repeal the meaningless, inapplicable and unnecessary legislation. Moreover, this does not usually involve budget expenditure or a reduction in revenue, as these are rules which do not affect the balance of the Hungarian budget in any form. I think we could be partners in this ourselves, and in recent years, perhaps there has been a lot of experience in where we should start. And that I should also make a nasty remark to the end, so that I would not make such a very friendly comment: I would, of course, ask that Mr Lazarus write it on the wall of his room, with which he began his speech, that the state serves and does not rule. In many other cases, it's as if we're not aware of the government's activities. And I would suggest that if you want to make such a legislative reduction and simplification, you should not leave it to Lajos Kósa, because in the end Péter Juhász will always hack it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Delight and applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-05-46	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács has applied for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-05-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In order to cut it short, what you have raised and even some of our fellow Members, Minister Lazarus, have started by saying that this is a first step, and he has also given an example of what could otherwise be abolished or abolished. What Mr Mesterházy asked me about the consultation: I can give you specific numbers. For example, 172 967 citizens have expressed their opinion that this should be abolished. The name change due to the change in marital status 182 617. So we've processed all the figures for this two-month consultation. But to say another kind: the abolition of the basic fee for admission to higher education was 135,757 people who decided that this should be abolished. So we have data on each of the displayed forms. The tax authority certificate is free of charge for 40 517 entrepreneurs... because the entrepreneurs and private individuals have made separate statements, so we have also divided this in two. Fewer people from the business community have expressed their views. It was also possible for citizens to express their views not only personally, but also via the Internet. I think this is all part of a process. The first step of this is partly to amend 110 laws in the spirit of cutting red tape, and this is the second step on the side of the public debt reduction, the elimination and reduction of administrative service charges and various charges.
u2015-11-05-48	Thank you very much. As a representative requesting a normal word, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your two-minute reply on behalf of Attila Mesterházy. These are important information, because it is apparent that 100 000 confirmations have been made on a subject, either as a proposal for the payment of fees or administrative service charges. I think it is good that citizens are asked as widely as possible in this type of process. Although I would like to add that I would also like to say that, if, apparently, in matters that would break society apart - in quotes - I might say that, obviously, in terms of closing on Sundays or other matters, they would be treated with similar diligence and openness, simply because here, when we talk about levies and service charges, and there, when we talk about interference in people's private sphere, they appear as at least comparable categories in their specific weight. But I don't want to go any other way, I want to deal with what's being formulated within the framework of the bill. [[12.50]] With regard to the costs of bureaucracy, we see and know the process that has developed in Hungary. We see what the burden of bureaucracy is in Europe, so to speak, and what this looks like in Hungary. Unfortunately, I have to say that in Hungary the burden and cost of bureaucracy is roughly three times as high as in relation to the European average. In Hungary, this gross domestic product we produce is roughly 10 percent of GDP. A huge burden of enormous magnitude: it falls on the enterprise and citizens as a burden of between HUF 3000 and 3,500 billion. While this is a benchmark of 3-3.5% in Europe, there is virtually nothing to be done in this regard. And in line with this ratio, I would also like to add that, compared to 2010, these burdens have increased considerably, I say: they have increased in a moderate way. Representative surveys support what I say, but on the basis of representative surveys among businesses, I do not say that it doesn't matter in what areas, but in terms of human, financial, labour, environmental, investment areas, it has come to the conclusion that where these bureaucratic burdens and their cost implications have increased very, very, very much since 2010, the rate has increased to almost 30 per cent. Where people, businesses, didn't say that they grew very big, they grew, but they did grow, but in a manner of speaking, it was closer to 40 percent. In Hungarian, the bureaucratic burden has increased and the cost of this has affected more than two thirds of the number of entrepreneurial inquiries based on representative sample surveys, some 70 percent. Those who said that they felt no particular increase, did not say that they felt no decrease, no particular increase, and this was roughly 30 percent, approaching 30 percent. Not to be denied, 1.5 percent of the declarants, there were those who said that bureaucratic burdens had been reduced; 1.5% of 100. Anyway, what I'm trying to say is that since 2010, it hasn't been small, and I have to add that, because it's fair, the bureaucratic burden has increased, and, as I said, the associated cost burden. In this way, the evidence, it's legal, it's clear, no matter how we put it, needs to be changed. This needs to be changed. This step, which you have just taken, is a step in the right direction, but I would not dare to call it a chicken step, so it is a measure that, in terms of its size, in the sum total of the order of HUF 10 billion, means that it represents 3 thousand of the burden of total bureaucracy. Do you know how much that is? Not 1 percent, not 0.1 percent, no, 3 thousand percent. Awesomely few. Awesomely few, as they paint the sky bright, as if they had taken a step that would solve everything here. I would like to point out that, as a burden on businesses and people, as a result of bureaucracy growth since 2010, this represents the 1 per cent scale. So, what I would like to suggest is that, after the fraction of chicken steps, real action should be taken to ensure that, at least in the first step, as long as they govern, it is possible to ensure that this burden is not in excess of what it was in 2010 at the time of the change of government. You'll have to do a lot more than that, I'd like to add. And if we are going in this direction, I must return here to two things that my colleague Bárándy and my fellow Member Mesterházy mentioned. One is that my fellow Member, Barándy, said the way of wasteful governance. He also mentioned the number of the Secretary of State and many other things, and I put something else next to him. I refer to the numerous and handsless events of the type of recently created propaganda industry or the construction of stadiums, heated gymnastics or small railway, or government waste, which all take forints, hard billions of money that could otherwise be used for the benefit of citizens. And it is also important that what has been said is also mentioned by a number of fellow Members that, for example, in terms of the type of things such as the creation of free ownership; I do not know, Mr Secretary of State, if you can give an account or a confirmation in a good way, that, for example, in this particular matter, which concerns the possibility of accessing the ownership cards for free, how many citizen confirmations or feedback were in this. I'd be happy to give you a figure on that. I'd like to ask Attila Mesterházy one of his questions a little bit. He didn't open it on purpose, and yet I'm opening it up a little bit, which is about the question of black economy and grey economy and employment. Because when we talk about bureaucracy, we also need to talk about the type of operation of the economy that again carries a tremendous amount of financial resources. There are many, many researches and surveys that support the fact that in today's Hungarian economy, the scale of the resources in the black economy is between 18 and 22 percent. If I look at this number, it's even bigger, it's double the cost burden of bureaucracy in the country, but it's worth 6,000 billion forints. I brought it up because I think that if, on the one hand, the burden of reducing bureaucracy in these two areas and, on the other hand, the burden of reducing black economy and employment today could only be reduced by 10 percent, then free financial resources of a magnitude could be produced which would not amount to HUF 10, but to HUF 1000 billion, obviously, but to the Hungarian people as a whole. So there are two surfaces in which it is definitely worth mobilizing forces, but, I tell you, not a fraction of hen-step forces, as it is in this period. Of course, we support this because it is helpful, but it is much less than the burden that has been imposed on the country in the last six years. However, let us say so much about what has happened over the last six years, that, in summation, I think this is a failure in this regard, just think of the example of beer mat - do you remember that, Mr. Secretary? Implementation of tax returns on beer mats and much more. I'd love to hear you tell me, I'll listen to how it's gonna be in 2016, in 17 and in 18, nothing's gonna happen, everything's gonna be done by the NAV. So I get it, they've only been ruling for six years. And the beer mat isn't small, it's so big that it needs the keg, and maybe it doesn't cover it. So, I think that if, in these two things, only what I mentioned earlier, in terms of bureaucracy and in terms of black economy and employment, only a 10% reduction in existing burdens would have been made, then you would not have had to fight, say, against limiting men's possibility of retirement after 40 years of entitlement. [[13.00]] Then you should not be fighting against the growth of minimum wage, not gross, no, no, but of the type of net of minimum wage, by a tripartite agreement, into a regulation and law, which is about people with minimum wage earning more in terms of purchasing power than they are earning today. And not punish employers by imposing charges on them by the government, and impose additional charges on them, but the individual who, say, earns these funds, earns money, should be better off, should have more earnings. Then it would not be necessary to fight against the fact that the civil servant's salary fund has been held at HUF 38 650 in the public sector for the sixth year, in an unprecedented manner. There was no government, not even the first Orbán government, since the moment of the change of regime, and I would add that the level of civil servants' salary would not have changed during that period. This is the sixth year - this is the sixth year! - there we are, for this Orbán II-III. during the period of government that the civil servants' salary base remains unchanged. Then they should not fight and act by taking money from health care or education in the order of HUF 100 billion a year, but where money should be put into, by providing resources, so that they would have free financial conditions for education and health. With these examples, I just want to say that the area that finally, finally, after six years, is very, very important, is what the government is touching, so to reduce the burden of bureaucracy for businesses and citizens. It would be equally important for them to finally start on the path that is important in terms of eliminating and reducing the black economy and employment. Although I don't even want to assume that they don't because it might not be in the best interest of my friends. What's gonna convince me is that it's not really in the best interest of my friends that they don't start. So it would be good to move in these matters, to start out in a moderate way, to act for the benefit of citizens, and not to serve the interests of other partials, not other people and businesses; those who themselves enrich themselves in good times, but who, in their employment, make others vulnerable. You know, you know these examples. Some Hungarian emerging companies take up 800 million dividends a year, while in that year they use 157 million forints for the employment of 225 people. Do you understand? ! HUF 157 million for 225 people, HUF 800 million in dividends for themselves. Now, these situations need to be changed, on the one hand, by cutting red tape and taking strong steps, and, on the other hand, by reducing the black economy - I dare not say, but by reducing it. And once again, for the last time, it is not a fraction of hen's steps that need to be taken, but a measure to at least compensate at least for the mistakes they have made since 10:00. Thank you very much. And my last sentence is that, of course, we will also support the positive steps taken with this fraction of chicken steps. What benefits the people, there is the Hungarian Socialist Party and supports it. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-05-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm gonna need a moment of your time with the Secretary of State. Let me ask you if anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and, as rapporteur, the State Secretary has indicated that he wishes to speak. Mr Zoltán Kovács has the floor. Here.
u2015-11-05-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'm gonna fight this microphone. It's so strong, it's hard to put it on. Perhaps I would like to start with this last speech. We are used to our fellow Member Nándor Gúr always making provocative speeches. Whatever agenda you have ahead of you, this speech, enter, you always say, it doesn't matter whether it fits or doesn't fit the subject. When it comes to the life of wrestling birds, say, in a bill or an international treaty, this is what he's talking about. We are used to this, so I would not wish to reflect particularly on the fact that our fellow Members and factions support this proposal and, in fact, the whole negotiation of the proposal was peaceful. But still, to say the least, it's gonna take a lot of nerve to ask us to reduce the living standards of citizens while they're growing. While you said you wouldn't raise the price of gas, then you raised it three times, you didn't raise the price of electricity, then you raised it twice and the rest. They have, by the way, placed huge bureaucratic burdens on the economy, which has led to a significant reduction in their competitiveness. I think that these are not fair and correct opinions, while this government has been on the road since 2010 to cut red tape. Just now 110 laws will be amended and in two weeks' time, the final vote, in which the procedure will be speeded up and bureaucratic rules removed from the proceedings. We are currently discussing the bill where we propose the elimination of more than 20 administrative service fees and charges worth HUF 10 billion. This may be called a chicken step, but I would like to compare it with the annual budget of a city of 35,000. We are also talking about this magnitude when we abolish these administrative service charges or charges. And what you're talking about is moving forward or backwards in citizens' careers, they've had three years to raise the salary base, and they never once did. After that, we have been asked to take account of this, while the defense workers and the police's career model have completed, the teacher's career model has already been in place, and there have also been various wage increases in health care, while you have also taken away the 13th month pension and salary. I think we should get inside of you first, someone else's eyes, and they don't even notice the beam in their own eyes. But back to the presentation, I would like to thank the fellow Members who have focused on and supported the substance of this proposal. Thank you very much. I think this is a joint matter in all respects, since we leave 10 billion forints in the citizens' pockets. I think it was important to consult on this matter in the district offices. However, nearly 400 thousand people have expressed their views, which is even equivalent to a national consultation. He also said, Minister Lazarus, once again, that these are the first steps. We have presented a much larger package to the State Reform Committee, which has been discussed by the State Reform Committee. The wealth of the state, as we have seen, allows this in the first step, and the conditions for this are also guaranteed in the next year's budget. I've come up with some details, I'm trying to reflect on them. I can say to Mr Bárándy's professional question that, in order to eliminate the administrative service charge payable for official procedures, it is necessary to lay down the exemption rule in the tax law because, if we do not do so, the general levy will be payable, and we do not want that - that is why. Otherwise, the total abolition of the general tax liability was raised, which is HUF 3 000. But that would significantly increase the decline in the revenue side, and we couldn't get away with it in the first step. Minister Lázár also said that a significant reduction could end in reducing or, where appropriate, abolishing these various administrative service charges and charges. As far as the deed is concerned, the deed is a thousand forints. That's what we've been looking at. [[13.10]] By the way, we've looked at how many of the citizens have voted. It wasn't in the first ten that they were abolished in relation to ownership, which is basically in the world of lawyers and in the context of real estate sales. We also consider the extension of such proposals or administrative service charges to be considered in this context. In addition, we know that the state sometimes takes it out of one pocket and puts it in the other, and various public organizations ask for ownership cards from each other, where appropriate. Whether the administrative service fee is proportionate or not, this can be debated. We have also conducted investigations on this subject. Indeed, it has been seen here and there that administrative service charges were more in the direction of an increase in revenue, but there were some where they were, by the way, lower and, by the way, where reality was reflected. In these awards you also have to make a tabula rasa in the coming period. Here's what I would like to say, fellow Members, about the presentation. It has come up here for the hundred and twenty-two times, and I answer one hundred and twenty-three times that the state wishes to bring back two points of intervention to Parliament, as the Minister said. One is an overview of the system of building procedures, the whole system of construction, including fees, and the other is the tax administration, the tax world. In this, Minister Varga has already said that tax returns would be abolished, but that citizens would be given an accounting sheet, not they should create this, but if they have a problem, they should be consulted with the tax authority. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that, as the song says, and as the fans say after 3:0, it's still, yet, that's not enough, but I think that we should have solidarity in this, that this is the first step. And thank you very much for your support that this is a proposal that will help citizens, restrict the revenue of the state, reduce bureaucracy, and if we consider this a first step, and in this Parliament will support us, I would like to thank you, and thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-05-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, The year 2001 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows. General discussion of the bill amending law on joint municipal offices until closure. The government referral is T/6976. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-53	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We can all say that the right to self-government is protected by a number of legal guarantees, as local public affairs are of paramount importance. I can confirm that, since I was mayor for over 20 years, I have some idea of self-government, self-government. Within the framework of this entitlement, a balance must be found which will ensure both the right and the effective functioning of local self-government. Hungary is basically small settlement-structured, since there are over a thousand small settlements under 2 thousand people, and if my memories are correct, the number of small settlements under 500 people is around 600-700. Therefore, maintaining an independent mayor's office and operating at the same level as in the case of a larger municipality would create extraordinary difficulties for small municipalities that the law on the municipalities of Hungary allows the establishment of a common municipal office, which is mandatory in less than 2 thousand persons, on the basis of what has just been said. This has been the case since 2013, and the relevant body of representatives, except for some municipalities - if necessary, I can tell you the number of these, this is not over 50 - conclude the agreement on the establishment of a common municipal office, but in some cases this will not take place, so in the event of failure to establish a common municipal office, the heads of the metropolitan and county government offices should appoint the municipalities belonging to the joint municipal office under the law, but the settlements of the establishment of the office should continue to be concluded by the municipalities. However, despite the selection decisions, some common offices, as I mentioned, did not conclude contracts. Therefore, in 2014 the Mötv. a further amendment has been made, in the event of failure to conclude this agreement, the Government Office has, at the initiative of the Government Office, replaced the joint municipal office agreement of the designated municipalities by means of an out-of-court procedure. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] So, not the state's decision, but a separate judicial procedure can be used, precisely because if there is a problem with the appointment, the court will decide on this question. However, court proceedings are in many cases rather lengthy and can be said to be complicated; agreements have been settled practically slowly. In order to ensure that the loss does not render administrative activity impossible, as this is the primary priority for common offices, and at the end of 2014 a more effective solution should be taken if the municipalities concerned fail to fulfil their legal obligations by establishing the municipal office, the government office will replace the agreement itself with the designation of the municipalities belonging to the joint municipal office. Of course, there is a need to take into account the specificities of individual municipalities. The government's decision includes the designation of the municipalities belonging to the joint municipal office and the replacement of the agreement. In view of the autonomy of the local government enshrined in the Fundamental Law, a judicial review of the decision taken by the head of the Government Office, as I have already mentioned, may be initiated. Of course, they always listen to different local governments, but there are such diverse interests that it is very difficult to bring them into practice. As such, the law ensures that the administrative activity of the municipality is carried out continuously, so there will be no hole in so to speak in time for the provision of the administrative activity. Subsequently, the courts turned to the Constitutional Court on the authority of the government with regard to the common municipal office, and the Constitutional Court examined this system as to whether it met all the criteria. The petitioners said that by institutionalising the establishment of the municipal office, the right to organise the settlements was restricted. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court said that this assumption was not justified, so it did not order the annulment of these in Mötv. I would like to quote briefly the decision of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In order to ensure the smooth functioning of the public administration, it is in the public interest that the State intervenes if local authorities fail to comply with their statutory organisation obligations. This is done in the case of the selection. This is why the legislator authorised the government commissioner exercising legal oversight of the government office to appoint a settlement to a joint office if the local government does not comply with its legal obligation to establish a common municipal office within the time limit. He must exercise the right of appointment of the government commissioner, because the settlement cannot remain without an office. So far, the Constitutional Court's decision, the quote from the Constitutional Court. [[13.20]] The freedom of organisation of local authorities is not unlimited, but the freedom of local authorities to organise organisations with regard to the establishment of a joint municipal office is provided by Mötv. The provisions of its provisions limit only in the final case when the representative bodies concerned fail to comply with the compulsory establishment of the common municipal office. The powers of government to set up joint municipal offices are therefore not contrary to the Fundamental Law or to the European Charter of Local Governments. However, in addition to this, the Constitutional Court has identified concerns regarding the decision-making procedure of the Government, namely, on the basis of the European Charter of Local Authorities, in the course of the decision-making process, the opinion of the local government should be sought in due time and form in all cases that are directly relevant, including in this case. These pro forms were not requested in this way during the procedure, but were otherwise consulted in these proceedings. And this is in view of this proposal, in order to create the formal framework for this, by the decision of the Constitutional Court, which states that it must be established by 15 December, which is why the bill was submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of these precedents and the legislative obligation, the Government submitted the Mötv. - If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. In line with the Constitutional Court's decision, the European Charter of Local Governments, the bill aims to regulate the procedure for requesting the opinion of the local government during the decision-making process, so let us create the legal conditions for this. The Mötv. By way of amendment, local authorities will have the legal opportunity to express their views both as regards the designation of municipalities belonging to the common municipal office and as regards the agreement on the common municipal office to be replaced, which, as I said, could be exercised without any legal obligation. During the preparation of the bill, we have taken into account that the right of voters to local self-government remains unchanged and fully respected, and that the transformation of the local government organisation and operation will help to increase the level of administrative services, while at the same time the burden on the local government organisation system should not increase as far as possible. I call for your cooperation in the creation of a law that is of professional importance, consistent and secure for the functioning of local authorities. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court in the system, the Mötv. It's a very brief amendment to the law that we've brought before you. Please support me in discussing this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-05-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Member Robert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group supports the adoption of the bill. As State Secretary Zoltán Kovács said, it is necessary to amend the municipal law as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. I note that not in terms of the substance of the matter, so this amendment does not concern the substance of the procedure for appointment by the institution of law, the Secretary of State Kovács, but the law would provide for a right of expression in reality. This will replace the constitutional requirements that were missing from the law. But I would like to stress very much, it is clear that there will be one among the next speakers who will also debate the appointment itself. It will argue whether this solution would be in line with constitutionality, but the Constitutional Court has given a clear opinion on this. Thus, it is constitutional and compatible with the local government charter that the head of government offices will appoint the municipalities of one group. Why is that necessary? This is because, here, municipalities are not created solely within the framework of their own operation, but they grant very important fundamental rights and citizens' rights, so when such a common office is not established, the municipalities fail to serve their citizens and their administrative duties with regard to citizens. That is why the Constitutional Court allows, therefore, the Constitution allows this final solution, so that the government commissioners appoint the municipalities belonging to a common office and set up these offices. I would therefore like to say once again that the Constitutional Court did not contest this appointment itself, but a right of opinion is required in the law, which has been in practice. So I hope that you will support the bill accordingly. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-05-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group is next. Here.
u2015-11-05-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In 2002 he made a major attempt to intervene in the lives of the municipalities, to reduce the operation of the municipalities and to reduce autonomy. the government, when the local authorities were reorganized by restructuring the municipal law in such a way that, in fact, as of 1 January 2003 (sic!) the right to self-determination and decision-making of local authorities has been greatly reduced in the context of the main provision that enters into force. It can be concluded that the funding of municipalities has been significantly reduced and, as far as we can see and experience, through various municipal associations and opinions, their autonomy is also significantly reduced. Although the State has indeed taken over a significant amount of tasks from the municipalities, it is also true that it has taken the resources of the municipalities together, and even has taken away significantly more resources from the municipalities than the State has taken over. Since then, we have seen and found that the municipalities, in a way, are bleeding out to this day, as we see that this year we adopted the passage of the Social Administration Act on 1 March that it is now the responsibility of the local authorities to resolve the cash benefits to those in need of it, despite the fact that we have seen that the support of the municipalities has now been decreasing for years, or we can just say that they are stagnating. A passu of the 2012 municipal law indeed spoke about the establishment of local government offices, and it did say that the municipalities, municipalities within the district, whose administrative territory is separated from each other by the administrative territory of no more than one municipality, and the number of the inhabitants of these municipalities does not exceed 2 thousand, then they really need to establish a common municipal office. The first deadline was 1 January 2013. Then it could not be created, and last year, in the context of a repeated amendment of the law - I remember it, in a salad law, the amendment of the law of the local government - the regulation of municipal offices again came before the House. And then he said, as the Secretary of State said, that the representative bodies of the local authorities concerned should have agreed within 60 days of the general municipal elections, and this should have entered into force on 1 January following the elections, i.e. 1 January of this year. We already said then, and we have been saying ever since that the deadlines provided for by the law are obviously very difficult to achieve, and we still resented and said that we do not consider it fortunate that government offices intervene so drastically in the operation of the municipalities. [[13.30]] Indeed, the law pointed out and said, as the Secretary of State said, that if the common municipal office cannot be established between the municipalities, then the government office has appointed the municipalities and established these agreements. We also stressed, and I think we should do it now, that we should work with local authorities in incentives rather than in harsh government intervention, because cooperation between the municipalities and the state is very important, because it affects a lot of citizens. This was a problem enough for local authorities during the local government restructuring, so this harsh government intervention has made their situation worse. Indeed, the amendment of the local government law before us is necessary because, on the basis of judicial initiatives, the Constitutional Court has examined the rules governing the establishment of a common municipal office in the framework of a specific standard control procedure. In this decision, the Constitutional Court stated that although judicial initiatives are not justified, it establishes a kind of legislative obligation for the Parliament, since the Constitutional Court's position is that the provision of the European Charter of Local Local Authorities, which, if possible, should be consulted in good time and form during the planning and decision-making process in all cases which directly affect them, is not complied with. The proposal therefore aims to regulate the decision-making procedure itself, in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court and the European Charter of Local Governments, as Mr State Secretary has stressed, the procedure for seeking the opinion of the local authorities. The Constitutional Court, acting on its own initiative, concluded that the National Assembly caused a default of fundamental law by not properly regulating the rules of the 2011 Act on Local Governments of Hungary on the basis of a joint municipal office agreement replaced by the head of the Government Office in the course of the decision-making process the rules on the request for the opinion of the local authorities concerned, as well as the manner and order of the expression of opinion. Thus, the Parliament did not comply with the consultation obligation procedure in accordance with the law of the local government, in this respect the failure of the legislator is contrary to the provision of Article 34 of the Fundamental Law that local authorities and public bodies must cooperate in order to cooperate with the common objectives. The Constitutional Court therefore drew the attention of the Parliament to the fulfilment of this legislative obligation, as Mr State Secretary said, by December of this year. But to mention a specific example of how the local government offices do not work, allow me to mention an example from the county of Nógrád, where in the decision of the Nógrád County Government Office dated 13 March 2013 Tar appointed the municipality as a member of the joint municipal office in Mátraszős, with effect from 1 April 2013. The decision was challenged by the six municipal authorities voluntarily establishing the joint municipal office of the concerned Mátraszőlős with an action before the Salgótarján Administrative and Labour Court. The court dismissed the action in its final judgment of 11 July 2013. The six local authorities concerned have submitted a request for review to the Kuria, the settlements constituting the common municipal office have been excluded from the reception of the municipality Tar, due to their shut-down behaviour the administrative decision and the judgment of the court still could not be enforced, but such examples could still be classified. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, the current legislation seeks to establish that the head of the government office should seek the opinion of the local authorities concerned, in connection with the settlements of the common municipal office established by the decision of the head of the government office and the content of the agreement on the common municipal office to be replaced, with a minimum period of 15 days. With this solution, the proposal will therefore comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, giving the local authorities concerned the power of opinion. But all this highlights that the transformation of the local government system in this way, the often hasty legislative method represented by the governing party, manifests itself in its conduct, and what is obviously about the establishment of joint municipal offices, clearly shows that it is not a fortunate measure in any way and further reduces the rights of the local government. Not to mention that it will also cause serious complications by the fact that, by reducing the number of two thousand people required by the law, the right of a common municipal office, which has already been established, is no longer valid, as this may be the case, since the population of the settlements is constantly changing, and indeed these common municipal offices, which have already been established, will have to be incorporated into another municipal office. So I think that with this amendment we will not solve the problem, and I am sure that this amendment will still be in front of the House, perhaps we should have solved the problem at its root, i.e. it is not certain that joint municipal offices should have been set up. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-11-05-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-59	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Court 22/2015. CHAPTER VI 18, par. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary was examined in the framework of an individual norm control procedure on the basis of judicial initiatives in its decision. Law 85. The rules governing the establishment of a common municipal office, as laid down in Section 2 of this Article. In this decision, the Constitutional Court concluded that judicial initiatives were not justified, but that Parliament was bound by a legislative obligation, since the Constitutional Court also considers that the provision of the European Charter of Local Local Authorities at the level of the legislation does not comply with the requirement that, where possible, the local government's opinion should be sought in due time and form during the planning and decision-making procedures in all cases which directly affect them. Accordingly, T/6976. In line with the Constitutional Court's decision and the European Charter of Local Governments, the proposed amendment to the Act aims to regulate the procedural arrangements for obtaining the opinion of the local government during the decision-making process. If, within the time limit set out in paragraph 3, the joint municipal office is not established or is not joined by a municipality, the head of the government office shall, by decision of the first day of the second month following the expiry of the deadline, designate the municipalities belonging to the joint municipal office and at the same time replace the agreement on the joint municipal office. The head of the government office shall seek the opinion of the local authorities concerned, with a time limit of at least 15 days before the appointment decision and the replacement of the agreement on the municipal office. In its decision to establish the agreement, the head of the government office shall provide for the establishment of the seat of the joint municipal office and the number of the joint municipal office, as well as for the order of customer reception of the joint municipal office. The Mötv. 85. The amendment of Paragraph 3/A of the Act provides local authorities with an opportunity to express their views in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court and the European Charter of Local Governments. Please support T/6976. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[13.40]]
u2015-11-05-60	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, lead speaker of Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-11-05-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. First of all, I would like to clarify a question, because here in the introductory exposé, I believe that a figure was misplaced. The number of settlements that are actually affected by this bill before us rightly says two thousand. After all, we know that two thousand of the 3200 Hungarian municipalities are settlements below 2 thousand people. So anything that applies to settlements of less than 2 thousand people, such as the establishment of joint municipal offices, affects all 2 000. So this amendment is also affecting all two thousand of them. It may seem to you that, in this particular case, there are only 50 or 60 problems, but it is a fact that the whole idea of a common municipal office itself concerns two thousand municipalities on the one hand, because in one way or another, they had to establish a common municipal office, and on the other hand, it is certain that the whole concept itself is a forced marriage in fact, which, if it was created in the form of order and in time, is not a good solution. Still, there are a number of problems that depend on the type, but sooner or later it will come to the surface, and in some way, but it will poison the lives of those settlements. What lies before them is a specific problem, isn't it, that in the event that settlements fail to reach an agreement within 60 days of the general elections, this agreement can be replaced by the head of the government office, and since so far he has not been obliged to seek the opinion of the local authorities concerned as to who the relevant municipalities are or who the relevant municipalities should be, or what the specific content of the agreement should be, and so now you will replace it in the law, as the Constitutional Court obliges you to comply with their obligations under the European Charter of Local Governments and the Fundamental Law. But let's face it, we, who are sitting here in this House, and we are listening to the debate that you feel that this whole issue is particularly burdensome. It's a nuisance that you have to deal with because you're obligated to do so by Ab, but in fact you don't like it, and you don't really take the place of these municipalities. Some way to quote the Secretary of State, they want to make a pro-formative decision or a pro-forma solution. So, yes, they would like to include an empty formality in the bill, so that in some way they can see it, one way or another, but somehow manage this emergency. I am convinced that if this modified small section is incorporated into the original law, nothing will actually change, in fact, the problem will not be solved. From now on, if such a problem arises, they will not make their decision immediately, immediately and completely dictatorially, but there will be a mandatory 15-day circle that they will still have to include in the decision-making process. This means that they will seek the opinion of the respective municipalities, these will be given by the municipalities, and these opinions, I do not know whether they will be thrown into the trash immediately or will be used for something before, but that their content will not actually be taken into account, we are almost certain, Mr Secretary of State. We therefore propose - and we have already tabled this amendment - that it be compulsory to take into account the views of the local governments when the head of the government office takes his decision when drafting the agreement. In terms of who the municipalities want to associate with, it is also necessary to take into account, and also in terms of what exactly this agreement contains, i.e. where and how the joint municipal office should stand, what should be the order of customer reception, and how many persons this joint municipal office should operate with. Why do we think it's the right thing to do? It's because any strange, surprising and thought-provoking, but not even according to your Fundamental Law, there's no subordination between two settlements. It is not so far, it is not included in the Fundamental Law that there is not even a subordination relationship between a county-righted town and a small settlement. Therefore, if the municipal law requires the establishment of a common municipal office, then this must be done on the basis of some kind of common consensus, and yes, if this is a lengthy negotiated agreement, it must be carried out. On the other hand, let me return, for a half sentence, to the fact that this whole story originated from the fact that there was a local government in Zala that challenged the establishment of a common municipal office, which turned to the Curia, and several municipalities turned to the Curia, and this decision was ultimately brought before the Constitutional Court. In view of the fact that these municipalities and the local governments of the region held a small conference in this regard, where we could be there with my fellow Member, Mr Benedek Sallai, as has already been said there, I proposed to the House on 5 October that there should be a kind of amendment to this section of the law. Of course, you have swept this off the table - because why not sweep it off, always doing so with all sorts of opposition proposals without considering it - and you have also submitted a proposal that is virtually literally identical. This is just the essential point of having to take account of the outcome of the conciliation, which is not part of the solution you are proposing. We therefore continue to ask that this be included. Let me tell you one more thing. If the question of joint municipal offices is already raised here, we must address it, and I suggest that the secretary of state consider that there have been joint municipal offices for quite some time now, perhaps it would be worth reviewing the situation so far and drawing on the lessons we have learned so far. I am convinced that the work of a government can only come to its glory if you understand that what he has introduced earlier has been built into the system and does not work well, then you see that and you have the courage to withdraw this proposal and to restore to a kind of previous situation the messed up situation that we are trying to push around here, for example. No one would despise you for this, but rather for your honor, so that you can make this correction. It is now time to learn the lessons, therefore, to see that we must understand from all these lessons that this system is not working as it is. It doesn't work well, and the countryside has made Hungary's life more difficult. How many places have I heard that these joint municipal offices are inextricably far away! Sometimes you have to take a day off to go to an office and do business. And how many times - good state or no state, no state reform, or no state reform - that it is not possible to walk in one day, that it is not possible to arrange everything in one day, and that it is necessary to sacrifice more days and more freedoms. Secretary of State, that's right. Well, I'll tell you why. Because the road network isn't in that condition. Not to mention the insurance of inter-city transport. It is simply not in a state in which citizens can walk within normal time. And yes, as strange as it may seem, and although you promised that, by the way, back in the day, the Mötv. in his debate, that is to say, back in 2011, that they will ensure that all the adjutants in all the settlements are left with some kind of official care, that is not the case. That's not true. [[13.50]] In some places, please respectfully, the spider weaves the door of the former mayor's office, because no one enters it for weeks. Nothing happens because there is no administration. Nothing's happening! Of course, I'll add that the notary himself doesn't go out there to check how things happen. You know, from Baranya - I beg you, listen to me for a moment. - I hear about a small settlement where the notary or his deputy notary, the sub-notary, does not go out, but does not go to the representative board meeting of their respective settlements, which is quite nonsense and shocking, so the mayor makes the report, sends it to the joint municipal office, from which, I might add, virtually no assistance is given to small settlements. That's it. This is the case in Hungary today. Before that, let's face it, there was a loose 140 years, until the notaries worked, one way or the other. That's the situation you've been breaking up. And as long as this was the case - of course, there were other tasks for the given mayor's office and for the municipalities at that time, and the rest, and so far too long I don't want to go back - it was undoubtedly a functioning system, it grew out of its own children's diseases, and citizens were able to adapt to that system. But they can't do that, it's causing so much problems and difficulties. Not to mention the mayors, the small town mayors, whose salaries you don't want to raise - you don't want to! I only filed it three times, the LMP once or twice. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Twice.]] Twice, and perhaps even the MSZP has submitted the bill to pay the mayors of less than 500 people and less than 1500 people, but they have not done so either. And then there is the question of financing the common municipal office. If, in point 1 of Annex 2 to the Budget Act, they were to include in the general operating framework the possibility for the mayors of settlements under 1500 to receive their wages by means of state aid, it might not be so difficult to manage the wages of the mayors of these municipalities without having to carry out their duties in a social capacity as a full-time job. Not to mention, the track schedule, which is recorded by the law, should also be corrected. How many times have we asked for it, but they haven't done it once, and it wouldn't be that complicated. And I would add, on an annual basis, what we are asking for would be worth a billion forints, which, compared to the 16,000 billion-dollar budget, is nothing. It was just Tuesday that we decided on 130 billion. So I think that would be a problem that could be solved. Returning to the financing of municipal offices, the strange thing is that small settlements, which are not the municipalities of the town of the seat, but other small settlements, have no insight into how, how, they spend the money that they received from the central budget, from support. In the past, the system was that small settlements received it, and they transferred it to the headquarters settlement. This system was also difficult, because it was either transferred or not, or only part of it, and the rest, but now they have no insight, and in many cases the notaries do not agree with the question of making it clear to small settlements how these funds are used, and there is a great deal of disproportion in this. So we have to say that this part of the law is not good, and that also needs to be changed. Overall, I must say once again that I would like to ask you to reconsider the amendment that I have made and to do so by asking the municipalities to take their views on the experience of the last two years, either in the framework of municipal conferences or in any social consultation, and you will see how the system you have invented does not work. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-05-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker of the LMP. Here.
u2015-11-05-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Looks like it's a stalemate. If I understand the MSZP fraction and the Jobbik fraction correctly, they will not support it in this way, and we will not support it in this form. As I understand it, the law is two-thirds, so we should think about what consensus we can agree on. The amendment tabled by my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs Loránt, I think is a reason for reflection. We would certainly have been looking for the word "consensual" in the course of the amendment in order to persuade the municipalities to seek agreement. But we ourselves have been thinking that this proposal does not solve the problem, and it does not change anything in substance. So this is a standoff when you can do two things. They have already renounced the settlements of less than 2 000 inhabitants, so they should not really be concerned that they may be violating the law, they have done so more than once, whether or not they will comply with the obligations of the Constitutional Court by 15 December, or they will seek agreement with the opposition. As you know, the LMP doesn't have any small town mayor, so there's no political intention behind it, we just think you're very naughty. They are extremely naughty, because when they put in the proposal a justification which is shorter in itself than the amendment itself, they do not mention the simple fact that the Secretary of State could have learned from the decisions of the Constitutional Court if he had read them. In point 6 of the grounds for the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is clear that the freedom of organisation laid down in Article 6 (1) of the Municipal Charter cannot be limited by the State, as it provides for an association obligation linked to population and geographical location. Please, you will keep this obligation. The fact that the opinion must be sought, but there is no obligation to take it into account, is nothing. You didn't do anything! They brought him in, said it might be a way to check this out. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] But let me quote here Article 6; I have in front of me the Charter of Local Government, Article 6: administrative structures and resources appropriate to the tasks of local authorities. Point 1 of the Constitutional Court's statement of reasons: without prejudice to legislation of a more general nature, local authorities should be able to determine their own internal administrative structures. Please, this is what is included in the grounds for the Constitutional Court's decision. But that's not what you're doing! They say they're gonna get an opinion, and they're gonna decide who wants to. It is completely contrary to the spirit of the Constitutional Court, which has been brought here, because it is clear that I can read something about a paper that has been written to me, but if you interpret what is in the proposal, then you can do so, Mr State Secretary, to read the general justification of the law and to conclude that this is not in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision. This clearly shows where it refers, where it refers, and it should be said that municipalities should be able to define their own administrative structures. With this amendment, this cannot be achieved. I have that preconception against you, because it's been a long time since I've seen that you've given up on settlements below 2,000 people, and you're not very interested. Some people come in here with bored pictures, listen to the debate, but for those who live there, it's a decisive thing for the more than 2,000 settlements. Moreover, the grounds of the Constitutional Court show that it is not a precedent, but a number of precedents, from the county of Nógrád to Zala, where the same problems arise, since practically something is being imposed on the municipalities, in violation of the basic idea of the local government, so that they can govern themselves and define their administrative system as would be expected in the European Union from a civilised state. For all these reasons, the May Other Politics in this form can promise a maximum of one stay, because obviously we say that yes, we must comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, but the instrument that has been brought before us is completely inappropriate. There is no obligation anywhere that the municipalities concerned should take their views into account in any form. As long as there is no obligation and there will be no legal guarantee that they will seek agreement, consensus, cooperation, this cannot be supported in this form. I ask the Secretary of State to take the decision of the Constitutional Court and to read the reasons for it. Congressman Répássy has already gone out, he is a legitimate man, with high competences, he will certainly be able to do so if he reads the reasons for the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court practically calls on the government to see how the municipalities can govern themselves. With this amendment, you may have intended to make a pipe and go to the Constitutional Court, because you have done everything you can, but that is not the case. You have not complied with this, and a two-thirds piece of legislation has been brought here in a way that virtually does not meet the requirement set out in the explanatory statement, that this amendment is in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court and its spirit. [[14.00]] We will be happy to support it if there is any guarantee in the legislation that the views of the municipalities will have to be taken into account if there is a guarantee that consensus will be sought. However, as long as it is only a formal step to request an opinion and thus extend the procedure by 15 days, it is not considered eligible. I expect that there will be cooperation between the fractions of the opposition parties to force you to take into account the problems and problems of these small settlements and to create an opportunity to implement their administrative structure in such a way that it is acceptable to the municipal civilization of a Member State of the European Union. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-11-05-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. On behalf of the Government, however, Mr Zoltán Kovács wishes to react. Here.
u2015-11-05-65	Very briefly. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, If the law remains so and you do not support it, then the Constitutional Court decision will indeed not be implemented by 15 December, but the municipalities will be in a worse position than if this proposal were adopted. So I don't think they're gonna hit the government, so to speak, if they're blackmailing us into not voting for it. I would also like to add that Lajos Kósa would also like to convene a five-party consultation on the municipal law in the coming period, as far as I know. That leaves us with the previous situation. The Constitutional Court's decision is clear. The Constitutional Court says that the place of law on appointment is in order. That's okay. Only one is not right, according to the municipal charter, to ask for an opinion. The opinion is only a request, does not mean that it should be taken into account. I would like to say that a total of 2621 settlements created 738 joint offices, and there were 24 cases where the appointment had to be made, so there is no 10 percent of the settlements - or there is no 1 percent, sorry. It's just like it used to be in the case of notaries. There, too, many people in the old communal council system hated each other so much that they didn't do a roundabout on one day, but went to another settlement and formed a notary, even if everything went against common sense. Today, it has, to say the least, established a predictable system. Whether it's good or not, life will decide, it can't be decided after two years. What the Constitutional Court has decided must be read the operative part. The operative part says what we brought back here according to the Constitutional Court's decision. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-05-66	Now there's a way to tell a two-minute story. Congresswoman Loránt Violin, two minutes.
u2015-11-05-67	Thank you. Mr State Secretary, you have just admitted that, in fact, for you, this entire bill is a nuisance, in fact, a waste of time, which we are putting into this debate, because in no way do you wish to accept any opposition amendment. And you are the ones who are attacking us by blackmailing the government, so that if we don't vote, we'll be careful because the settlements are in a worse position. There's nothing worse for them. They're going to be exactly the same as they are now. Because you're asking for an opinion, and you're not going to do anything with that opinion. He acknowledged that this was just about asking for an opinion. Then why would the municipalities be in a better position from your point of view than they are now? We're not changing anything, we're just clowning around like we're playing lawmaking and there's some kind of point to this job. Then let us stop here, withdraw it, no matter what the Constitutional Court has said, because you really do not want to comply with the law, the spirit of the law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-11-05-68	Speaking Members seeking a normal word are next. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, here you go.
u2015-11-05-69	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács, I don't need to repeat the sentences you just said, do I? In your words, if you're being rude, it's what you're doing and what you just said. The fact that it wasn't important until now to ask for opinions, but it's not important now. It is not important now either, they just want to do it in a formal sense, because they have failed to take it into account, but they do not want to take it into account. You said it yourself: you don't want to consider it, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what they say. That's your policy! That's your policy! Sew a button on it. Sew a button on it. When we talk about amendments relating to joint municipal offices, the first thing to say is that Parliament has again committed constitutional violations. It brought to life a failure to comply with fundamental law. This is what the Constitutional Court said that all this needs to be sorted out by 15 December 2015. Your answer is, yeah, we're gonna clean it up, we're gonna bring something here, but it doesn't matter what's gonna be in it, and we're gonna listen to the authorities' opinions, but we're not gonna take it into consideration. That's how you take into account the views of the whole society, the people. They refer to reference, as he did earlier, to the opinions of 100 thousand, 128 thousand, or even thousands of people, and God only knows what is hidden in the background. People's opinions or something completely different? I can see that it's something quite different. You are driven by your political power interests by your cynicism and your stubbornness. That's the biggest problem. That's the biggest problem you've ever shown me. The fact that you don't care what anyone who can make an opinion says is of no interest to you. Seeing people look like idiots is the biggest problem. By the way, today is the second constitutional violation they've done. You know, one about negotiating this item and the other about the civil order. There, too, the Constitutional Court practically returned things to Parliament with the date of December 31, 2015 and here with the date of December 15 to clean up what it did. This is your government. That's how they govern that they're constantly committing constitutional violations. In one day, Parliament will have to face two in the context of the discussion of five items on the agenda. Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State, who is at home with regard to the local government, because he spent 20 years, nearly two decades as mayor of his own statement, in his words, you stand here and talk in an expo about, let's say, the lay, not necessarily so deep, that the number of settlements under 500 is about 600-700. At least you'd know how much! At least you'd know how much! I hope you know how many municipalities there are in Hungary. Based on the post-2010 surveys, right, 3152; after the 2010 surveys, I said so. Now a few tens are different. You also know that the number of settlements below 500 is not 500-600 or 600-700? No! Over a thousand. You also know that the total number of settlements under 2 thousand is more than 2 thousand? Yes, a.k.a. 2393. If you look at these numbers or the proportions, this represents 76 percent of all settlements. It's 76 percent! But over a thousand are also the number of settlements below 500. This, according to the 2010 survey data, is otherwise 1086. There's obviously a few tens shifts in this one today, but it's not 600-700. What I'm trying to say is that you can be wrong about one, five, ten in a scale like this, but you can't be wrong about 30-40 percent when you say numbers. Because it is consciously intended to deceive fellow Members of Parliament who do not necessarily have to be aware of the figures for the municipalities that I have listed above. [[14.10]] Or the other one, the bigger problem is that you don't have a shot, that you have no idea that this is of no interest to you. It doesn't matter how many settlements we're talking about, it doesn't matter how many settlements we're talking about. Anyway, it doesn't matter. What does it matter? They know what they want, they know how they want it, they don't have to follow the constitutional framework, and then they put constitutional insults in order with modifications. Cut! That's your philosophy, it doesn't matter here, it's the political interests that determine their affairs. You know, I'm saying at least two or three things should be taken into account. My fellow Member, Sándor Szabó, mentioned a number of things regarding the speech, and I am only taking one point out of it, and that is that you are bleeding out the municipalities. I can give you an example, I can give you many things, I can give you an example about which Zoltán Kovács, in his summary, will say, "Well, where does this belong?" He's a big part of this. A lot. - I'm telling you. For example, in small settlements, unfortunately, but it is typical that very many people with disabilities have been taking care of people with disabilities, who have been waiting for your promises since 2010, for these forms of employment to be legal, work-related and paid at minimum wage. I only brought this here because, thanks to you, these people are losing their housing contributions, because you are passing everything you can on to the municipalities, and you are not doing anything to provide funding. They won't! No! They don't give, they lose, or if they give, they want to give, as they please, to put the municipalities in a position that is wrong or in a good way, but rather to try to serve you and bow to you in a bad way. This is not the way to go. No! On the one hand, municipalities should be encouraged if there are processes that can be necessary and positive and should be helped. You don't know the incentive, you only believe in the command system. The other, the help is not known to the municipalities, but to the buddies and the pereputty. Mayors of thousands of small settlements have also been exposed. You remember the measures that were taken with regard to the mayor's remuneration. On the opposition side, there is no faction that has not initiated this change. Even then, you have tried to put this issue on a political level with the issue of the number, proportion, mediation of public employment and many others. So what you do not recognize is that there are still people in the public service, who are still in the role of good intentions, decency, conscience, and many other things in the interests of their little community - no, they do not want to acknowledge - you want to drag them on your own political leash. That's a shame, too. You know, this is not what should be done, I say it again, but we should help encourage both the mayors themselves and small settlements in order to make Hungary a more livable country. I should also add that there should be progress in financing backgrounds for municipal authorities. You know, with regard to the financing of tasks - I'm sure you're familiar with this concept - you should be at the forefront of what appears as a mandatory task at the level of the municipalities, being blessed with a financing background, rather than the leaders and mayors of the small settlements in question having to struggle day by day, to suffer how and how they can carry out their mandatory tasks and how they can finance them. So, if I do not want to oversell this story, then I must say that the multitude and series of constitutional violations should be abolished on your part in the system of legislation relating to Parliament, and on the other hand, if they are already unable to do so and are clearly unable - because, as I said, today is the second time we meet - then the amendments that are being made should at least be taken seriously, those amendments should not be treated as good, of course, we can, because this is what the Constitutional Court said, we will do, we can make an opinion, but, says the Secretary of State, it does not matter. What does it matter? You can say the opinion, we won't take it into account, it doesn't have to be dealt with. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] You can read back what he said from the record. That's the substance, Mr. Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács. This is a shame that he cannot even control his thoughts that are unacceptable and unacceptable. He can't keep it down either, but here, within the walls of Parliament, he says openly and clearly that it doesn't matter what they say. They may have an opinion, but it doesn't matter. You know, they're doing the same thing between Parliament's walls, that if opposition parties sitting in Parliament horseshoes put together improved opinions on any issue, or make amendments, or whatever they are doing, the two or three of them, as they are now, listen to it from the Fidesz-KDNP faction, because two or three people just have to be here, otherwise they know what they're doing to it. Yeah, yeah, for the whole thing - a big one. That's the problem. This is the kind of mentality that Parliament doesn't ask for, let alone the opposition parties in Parliament, no, no, I don't think the country wants any of this either. From this arrogance and this kind of thinking, I will tell you what will happen in this country, no one will ask for it. Because this one, do you know where it leads? Which, according to yesterday's news and many kinds of news, is that the telecommunications or the media are going to catch secret service people... - I'm not gonna go along with it. I'm just saying, for the record, it's gonna lead me here. Is that what you want? Is this the world they're building? Do you like this? Is that what Viktor Orbán likes? I think that we should go much more in the direction that it is in the interests of the people, that the interests of small settlements, mayors of small settlements, people living in small settlements should be taken into account. This is as far as we need to go. What the Secretary of State has done in this regard in the previous moments is clearly to be rejected from my side, and I find it unacceptable. You can talk to your fellow State Secretary, try to act as if you don't hear or as if you don't care about the word and thought spoken, but I would like to say that is unacceptable, Mr Zoltán Kovács State Secretary. This, this brazenness, is not the case where a Member discusses a particular subject in an extended way between Parliament's walls. No! It is when what the Constitutional Court requires the National Assembly after a constitutional infringement, you confirm that, of course, here, there is this amendment of the law, accept it if it is not accepted, then the municipalities will be in a worse position. What's worse? By saying it yourself, by accepting it, it's okay, we've legally fixed it, but anyway, we don't care, no matter what they say, they can say their opinions, but no one cares. So, what do you think? We didn't join Parliament as clowns in Parliament. No! It is not so that you, exercising your frivolous legislative mechanism, are able to restore constitutional and non-compliances here to the Parliament, so to speak, while not taking seriously what is involved in the amendments, so that the drafting of opinions, the giving of opinions, should be taken into account and incorporated, in any event, into the processes that follow. I'd like to say once again, Mr. Secretary, we need to subtract the consequences. Anyone who thinks like you - and you speak of impertinence - that it doesn't matter what political parties, which opposition parties say about a draft law, in any case, it doesn't matter whether those who, after a constitutional violation, have to give an opinion, if those opinions are spoken and formulated, whether they will prevail, whether they will prevail at all, it doesn't matter, so I think in a calm spirit, the Prime Minister could accept that resignation. Mr Secretary, I am very sorry that I had to listen to those words here in Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-05-70	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP! [[14.20]]
u2015-11-05-71	Well, it's the softer song now. I fear that if the Secretary of State were to express his opinion in the same way as my fellow Member Gur, we would encourage the State Secretary's faculty even more so that he does not take part in the debate. So I'd rather praise you if you'd allow me: I'm glad you were involved in the debate and you didn't take advantage of what you used to say more often than just in the closing. Thank you very much for sharing your thoughts with us and for giving us the opportunity to at least react. The essence of my reaction - I do not wish to repeat to you, it is in the minutes - is that I have just quoted Article 6 of the European Charter of Local and Regional Authorities of the European Council, which is also referred to in the Constitutional Court's decision, and it is clear from which how the local government should be maintained. Allow me to read you one more quote from the Constitutional Court's decision, i.e. from the decision itself. According to the Constitutional Court, the municipal law is set at 85. The institution of the common municipal office governed by Article 6 (1) of the aforementioned Charter infringes the freedom of organisation laid down in Article 6 (1) of the Charter, as it provides for an association obligation linked to population and geographical location. So what I just quoted to you is here in the Constitutional Court's decision as to why it doesn't happen. The problem is that blackmail is not done by us, but by you, so you have taken hostage the settlements below 2,000 people. Now two things are possible: one is that you may be lying, or you are not telling the truth, because in your intro you said that nothing is going to change, because until now you have been given this right, and then you have just stood up and said that we are putting the municipalities in a worse position. If you have spoken the truth in your intro, and this has been the practice until now, then, if we do not vote for this, nothing will change, the practice remains, according to which you have been consulted by the municipalities so far and said in your intro that this is only a formal matter, since it is now being incorporated into the legislation. So it's not about that, it's not the opposition that's blackmailing the government, it's you who took the settlements under 2 thousand hostages from the mayor, the government official, and we're the ones who think we have to do something about it. I'm asking you to understand that this is a simple thing. What you need to understand is that the local government must remain. I bet if you worked as mayor in a settlement like this, you'd insist that you have a say in what kind of administration you're operating under. At least it accepts in an amendment that the desire for consensus is written in some way, that there should be a codified text that at least provides the opportunity to not only ask the opinion, but also to read, listen and pursue it in substance. We still have the right to do something about it, but at least in the text of the law, in its spirit, we should strive for what is required by the Constitutional Court decision, and what is clearly stated in the Charter of Local Governments. With all due respect, please note that we would strive to improve the drafting of the legislation for these municipalities, and our aim is to try, by means of an amending motion, to ask you with respect, to make some changes to the norm. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-05-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he wishes to react now. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] Mr Zoltán Kovács has the floor. Here.
u2015-11-05-73	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I could also say that I could speak to Mr Nándor Gúr, who spoke about the arrogance of power and about them on account of personal involvement. You, honourable Member, who played a leading role in the party state in Borsod County, speak of power arrogance. [[Nándor Gúr: Tell us about him...]] You mean, like, insolence and stuff? ! Well, you don't have skin on your face. You have teflon on your face. I would like to say that as far as the presentation is concerned, this is what I have said to all my fellow Members and that they should read my previous speeches in the local government. There are few who have done more for the local government than I have, have worked in it, and have been involved in the creation and improvement of the law. I just wanted to say, factually, in the two-minute speech - and not with the arrogance of power - that it is not good to have the Constitutional Court's decision implemented, which was not actually made now, but entered into force in 2012 and January 1, 2013, because, based on the practice of a component of the regulation, the Constitutional Court said that it was necessary to widen the expression of opinion that had already taken place, and that its procedure, pro form, formal order, must be established. That's all he said and no more about the Constitutional Court. He also said, even in previous decisions, that the right to set up a free organisation of municipalities may be limited. For example, yes, because we should turn the question around about what is better: there is no consensus and no agreement, no, let's say, budget, no social assistance, no offices are working, or at least one management management decision is to be made on the basis of which a budget can be set up and the office operated. I accept what Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs said that there may be settlements in the territory of the country - by the way, I think this is wrong - where neither the mayor, the notary, nor the sub-notary go to the electorate who elected them and do not handle their affairs. As far as I know - I come from the neighborhoods of many small settlements, and they are important to me - in these cases, everywhere, where there is a common office, a person who is competent and capable of administration, is left in the former mayor's offices, so there is not only a common office, but also the former mayor's offices. And not to be included here, the adjutant, because he is the district clerk who performs state tasks, has nothing to do with the tasks of the local government in this respect, has a role in the provision of state tasks or has a role to play in this way. As far as numbers are concerned, it is not 600 according to MTA data that the number of small settlements under 500 is 1074, but not 1600 and 1700. And as far as the joint office is concerned, the number I said is more than 2,600, so the numbers are clear. But the whole proposal is about one thing: the possibility that has not been formally held by the municipalities, so it was not mandatory to ask for the opinion, now it has a procedure. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's not enough!]] This is an additional license, and I said that if you do not support this... It may be that little, the current municipal law can change more, for example, there is preparation for the increase in the mayor's incomes by the Ministry of the Interior proposal and thinking. I said that Mr Lajos Kósa would like to prepare a five-party group leader for the amendment of the municipal law. I would like to say - I repeat once again, and it was unfair, whoever thought so - I thought that we could give more licenses to the municipalities than we had before. I didn't say in one word that it doesn't matter what the opinion is, I didn't say it. I said they'd have an extra license, and if you don't vote for it, it's gonna put the municipalities out of their minds so they can actually give an opinion. This may, where appropriate, facilitate decision-making and, where appropriate, do not facilitate decision-making. Otherwise, the decision will not be taken by the government commissioner at the end, but by the court itself, the court will decide what is happening, so it will be spoken by a court outside the jurisdictional system, which belongs to the judicial sector. So that's why they're wrong about arrogance, because the state doesn't make those decisions. The decision at first instance is called the decision of the state to make an appeal, where, by the way, all municipalities are heard, and every mayor can give his opinion. The independent Hungarian court will decide. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, I would continue to say that it would be appropriate and good to vote for this amendment, which is not, by the way, a failure of the government to do something these days, but, in the event of the entry into force of a law in 2013, a right in a municipal charter has not been incorporated into the system; we would like to introduce it now. That is why I am asking you to support this amendment, which is practically a short, simple amendment, and to help the authorities express their views. [[14.30]] The fact that they want to grant more rights is obviously a more comprehensive amendment to the local government law, which is not the subject of the present proposal. There may be many things here in Parliament, we too could put forward a number of proposals that are needed, but the country's wealth cannot afford to do so yet. We just talked about this on the previous agenda. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put these thoughts to your attention and ask for their support in this matter, in a short amendment, to include the Constitutional Court's decision in the Mötv. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-05-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. a general debate on the amendment of law and related laws until closure. The government referral is T/6983. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2015-11-05-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Public Procurement Act reflects an intention that is a united and one-way effort in all 28 Member States of the European Union, how we can make public money, whether it is the resources from the domestic budget or even the grants provided by the European Union, to be used as efficiently as possible. The important aspect of this government is how, while fully respecting EU rules, we can involve as many small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary as possible. Among the merits of the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act, it is certainly possible to mention that it was based on a broad social and professional consensus, a number of opposition amendments were accepted. The current amendment or addition concerns four specific proposals. The first of these is that we would like to make a clarification to the new Public Procurement Act, according to which, in order to increase control efficiency, the Minister responsible for public procurement should be given a fine for contracting authorities, while fully fulfilling and complying with the obligations imposed on contracting authorities, in order to ensure that all domestic and European Union rules are not complied with on time and the expectations that public procurement supervision has asked them to initiate public procurement or in full in the procurement process, in order to ensure that all domestic and EU rules can be followed. Here, too, a specific fine option is an incentive to move contracting authorities towards rapid and effective cooperation. In addition, a similar technical clarification is that the government would like to extend the applicability of the contract amendment rules to contracts concluded under the previous Public Procurement Act. Therefore, where the new Public Procurement Act provides for an opportunity to amend contracts in accordance with EU directives, these options should apply not only to contracts born under the new Public Procurement Act but also to contracts born under the previous Public Procurement Act. Furthermore, in preparing the implementing regulation of the new Public Procurement Act, it was considered necessary, according to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, to complete a separate law on procurement for defence and security purposes which is currently being prepared, in order to maintain the possibility of obtaining such procurement for defence and security purposes. So until Parliament adopts this law, we would like to keep the provisions of the previous Public Procurement Act in force. Finally, the last technical amendment of this type is that it is necessary to mention, among the amendments to the new public procurement law, the rules in which the government would like to ease the procurement of at least HUF 25 million in procedures where other strategic agreements require the lifting of this narrowing circle. We are thinking of large investments that create jobs here, where they receive or receive support from different businesses on the basis of individual government decisions. Dear Parliament, With the entry into force of the new public procurement law, domestic public procurement practice could, in my view, take a much more transparent route in a direction that is indeed an important and legitimate objective for all 28 Member States of the European Union. We believe that the new Public Procurement Act and the related provisions also allow more and more small businesses in Hungary to invest in public funds while fully respecting EU rules. Other provisions of this have already been published in the implementing regulations, according to which, either in terms of lower participation criteria or in terms of reference identity, for example, in the construction sector, it was possible for more and more small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary to appear. We believe that these amendments are in the interest of the economy, so I ask the Parliament to support their adoption. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention.
u2015-11-05-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-05-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the new public procurement law was necessary because the European Commission has obliged the government to do so in the partnership agreement for the 14-20 development cycle. On 26 February 2014, the European Union adopted three new directives on public procurement, which could comprehensively reform EU public procurement law, the inclusion of which will greatly increase transparency in the Hungarian legal order. With the involvement of the Chamber of Industry, the Chamber of Engineers and the Chamber of Architecture, social consultation also took place. Many of these proposals have been incorporated into the law. The EU legislation of previous years has been set up to create a single internal market between the Member States of the European Union in the field of public procurement. In other words, the benefits of competition in the market should be undistorted, so that EU businesses can have equal access to public procurement in other Member States. However, the aim of the Public Procurement Act is to promote various strategic objectives. In this way, Member States can be given the opportunity to become an integral part of public procurement policy with important socio-economic objectives such as innovation, social objectives and environmental protection. Given that a significant proportion of public procurement is carried out using EU funds, effective and orderly management of public procurement is also a prerequisite for the proper use of EU funds. The Public Procurement Act also includes the rules on concession procedures. The new Public Procurement Act entered into force on 1 November 2015. The new law is the 2011 CVIII on public procurement, which is still in force. In many cases, it organises a number of fundamental legal institutions or other parts thereof differently from law, in accordance with EU directives. In this context, in order to ensure legal coherence, it is necessary to amend the rigid references under the separate laws referring to the law still in force in accordance with the new legislation, to amend certain laws containing specific provisions in line with new legislation and to repeal the rules which have become obsolete. Ladies and gentlemen, In total, the bill contains a coherent amendment to 17 laws, ensuring the unity of the legal system, aimed at improving the changing rules of the new public procurement law and the references to the previous law. The bill contains a total of four amendments, of which three are proposals for clarification in line with the original legislative intention, while a rule that narrowly mitigates the provision of the law on strict personal scope. In view of the new EU legislation, the proposals of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office are included in the bill, which allow KSH to have direct access to the data of various administrative records kept under the legislation of the salad package. [[14.40]] In this way, there is no longer a need for a separate request for data, the administrative burden of the bodies managing the register and the respondents will be reduced. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A round of applause from KDNP.]]
u2015-11-05-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is the next speaker. Here.
u2015-11-05-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Let's look at the facts. By discussing this draft law, it can be said that within a few years the Fidesz Government's second public procurement law will not be able to comply with its entry into force without it being amended before its entry into force. To put it simply: the adoption of the former law and the subsequent amendment do not live up to its entry into force, because the intention of the amendment is already published before that. And this is not the first time in this case, this is the second time in terms of public procurement. In addition, there is one special feature of this situation, namely that there are now not one but two amendments to the public procurement law at the same time before Parliament. The second is submitted on the same day by the Ministry of Szijjártó, which does not appear to have been properly coordinated with the Ministry designated for coordination. I can't tell you right now which is the ministry, the ministry responsible for Lazarus coordination, or the Ministry responsible for Rogan coordination. Perhaps this duality caused the loss of the child among all the midwives. I'm not sure it's house-to-door. I think it's worth looking at and thinking about. At the same time, there are two laws on the same subject, with the same content in the House, which I consider to be inappropriate. At the same time, I think that, as a result of this duality, it is easy to imagine that we will have such a surprise for the law-makers for Santa Claus and for the New Year that they will be faced with a new legislation in force. I can imagine what a pleasure it will be for you to process this after Santa Claus and on New Year's Eve. However, I cannot leave without comment, we are doing this in the spirit of good lawmaking and good governance. It is no wonder that the new Kbt has already had to be amended, since its double-crossing of the public procurement year was known to be rushed. Many have already made bets on the extent to which this law will live - without, I mean, modification in time. A lot of people said that in April 2016 because there is a deadline. He also did a lot of work, Mr Secretary of State, and my former fellow Member, who spoke with the Union, too. The Union has a date in April 2016 and the relevant laws have to be adopted so far. At the same time, according to insiders, it should have waited for the adoption of a single European procurement document and then we should have dealt with this issue. Because it makes sense, it's hard to live up to what we don't know yet. Without these, I'd say firefighting or rather a blind flight is the story. Other Member States do not act this way, they wait and wait. But now that we are starting to deal with this issue, they are looking for the mistakes of the Hungarians who took the voluntary mine. And according to the government, this horse is not blind, but brave. Even when previous laws were adopted, the madness was noticeable. Not even waiting for the end of the opinion period, it was essentially presented to Parliament in unchanged form. They didn't even give me the appearance, except for lobby organisations close to Fidesz, they ignored the opinions of professional and civil society organisations. And then came the test of practical application. It is not necessary to tell my own experience, because the Union has done so - with a relatively high frequency. The head of the state administration, Minister Lazarus, has also acknowledged in his previous expozee, and I quote literally: "The last ten years of practical application have not had a year in which criticism has not been formulated. And now the new Kbt is coming up again in an ambush. with its draft. Contrary to the law on social participation in the preparation of legislation, this salad law was not issued at all and some implementing regulations were issued for one day only. Obviously an alibi opinion, in the spirit of good governance. It is contrary to their own legislative law that, only after the entry into force of the law, the other implementing regulations necessary for its application were published; similarly, it would have included amendments to the legislation contained in the current salad law, together with the new Kbt. So now - I don't need too much courage to predict - for a month or two there will obviously be a lack of coherence in the legal system. In my view, the only acceptable reason for the immediate amendment would be to at least try to remedy the codification errors and inappliance of the forced text. Just one example: the current law 52. Paragraph 4 (a) contains two incorrect legal references within a single sentence. The public procurement industry has noticed this. Did the Ministry notice that? Is the current amendment intended to correct deer errors that make such an application impossible? I didn't see any sign of him. For my part, I will try to correct this with a motion for amendment, and I will submit it, but I am very curious about the fate of this amendment. The other example. Up to now, the main contractor has received his money only if he has verified that he has paid his subcontractors. The contracting authority should now pay the subcontractors with whom it is neither in contractual nor in the context of the organisation of work. Are you trying to fix this now? Because it's a big problem for the business. No, I didn't see any suggestions. In the previous ministerial expo, they dreamed that they would like to introduce a fully electronic public procurement system later this year. Instead, the public procurement authority, which has been decapitated for one year, is now unable to publish a number of pre-order notifications. However, the systems that have worked so far have also collapsed, so it is feared that the e-procurement system will end up with other failed public electronic services. However, instead of correcting long - term mistakes, the government is now trying to cut into a salad law - fifteen laws, if I count correctly, they want to amend this plan - to the already ruined wall of public funds protection. Actually, I don't even know if the wall is more or not. Now the most important thing to do is to confirm? The spending of the Paks investment is neither controlled nor perceivable by the taxpayers, nor even their grandchildren, whose grandkids will be moaning at the interest rates. The other exciting issue is a story that can be confirmed when investing in the water world. It can always be extremely urgent - because it is proposed - without notice, extremely short, only to call on three selected tenderers within a deadline for insiders. At the same time, you can choose the cheapest one, which is prohibited by almost everyone else, because it is not, so to speak, the quality selection. Why? Isn't the best quality for this investment going to matter here? Since I'm involved, you're in my constituency, I'd be very happy if this was a high-quality construction. Especially because thousands of people can visit them. Amendments to the Law of Property requiring a qualified majority were removed from the text before the final vote of the new Public Procurement Act. They were obviously afraid that would bleed to death in the absence of two-thirds melted. Now they're trying to hide it in this salad law. For example, they tried to hide the fact that they would be excluded from the fundamental provision of the property law: state assets can be put into concession for a maximum of 35 years. This would be well replaced by the use of Kbt. for the duration and possibility of extending the contract. [[14.50]] Paragraph 1 (a) two incorrect legislative references are included within a sentence. The public procurement industry has noticed this. Did the Ministry notice that? Is the current amendment intended to correct deer errors that make such an application impossible? I didn't see any sign of him. For my part, I will try to correct this with a motion for amendment, and I will submit it, but I am very curious about the fate of this amendment. The other example. Up to now, the main contractor has received his money only if he has verified that he has paid his subcontractors. The contracting authority should now pay the subcontractors with whom it is neither in contractual nor in the context of the organisation of work. Are you trying to fix this now? Because it's a big problem for the business. No, I didn't see any suggestions. In the previous ministerial expo, they dreamed that they would like to introduce a fully electronic public procurement system later this year. Instead, the public procurement authority, which has been decapitated for one year, is now unable to publish a number of pre-order notifications. However, the systems that have worked so far have also collapsed, so it is feared that the e-procurement system will end up with other failed public electronic services. However, instead of correcting long - term mistakes, the government is now trying to cut into a salad law - fifteen laws, if I count correctly, they want to amend this plan - to the already ruined wall of public funds protection. Actually, I don't even know if the wall is more or not. Now the most important thing to do is to confirm? The spending of the Paks investment is neither controlled nor perceivable by the taxpayers, nor even their grandchildren, whose grandkids will be moaning at the interest rates. The other exciting issue is a story that can be confirmed when investing in the water world. It can always be extremely urgent - because it is proposed - without notice, extremely short, only to call on three selected tenderers within a deadline for insiders. At the same time, you can choose the cheapest one, which is prohibited by almost everyone else, because it is not, so to speak, the quality selection. Why? Isn't the best quality for this investment going to matter here? Since I'm involved, you're in my constituency, I'd be very happy if this was a high-quality construction. Especially because thousands of people can visit them. Amendments to the Law of Property requiring a qualified majority were removed from the text before the final vote of the new Public Procurement Act. They were obviously afraid that would bleed to death in the absence of two-thirds melted. Now they're trying to hide it in this salad law. For example, they tried to hide the fact that they would be excluded from the fundamental provision of the property law: state assets can be put into concession for a maximum of 35 years. This would be well replaced by the use of Kbt. for the duration and possibility of extending the contract. (14.50) Or instead of the fundamental time limit, they could grant the concession right of national property for any period of time with a smooth half amendment of the law. Your status as a fundamentalist is a burden now, but in my opinion, it cannot be avoided. They do not want to improve the new public procurement law, but to weaken it. For example, some part of investments in government, government or government close support such as friendly sports or company subsidies could be excluded from all public procurement obligations by simple government decisions. Is that okay? The government is the new Kbt. It acknowledged in its reasoning that EU law is against the regulation of investment in defence and national security and remedies. The new Kbt. In connection with the promise that there will finally be a separate law. Looks like this didn't work out, so we still need the authority to make a regulation. Among these, however, the authorisation for encrypting money spending on immigration has been inserted. Remedies against such unlawful procurement could only be dealt with in a closed manner by the Procurement Arbitration Committee and the Authority could not even publish the decision. Is that okay? Overall, in my opinion, instead of the government rushing through Kbt. Trying to patch up his mistakes and remedy the inapprehensible provisions, he is once again looking for new loopholes to ease the protection of public funds and national assets. Dear Secretary of State, From what has been said so far, I think it turns out that what we are discussing here is, in my view, not the good legislation that has been mentioned much, but - and allow me to quote Minister Lazarus' earlier exposure - a kind of Czechoslovak DIY. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-05-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here.
u2015-11-05-81	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Procurement by means of public procurement is becoming increasingly important for the national economy, and procurement procedures have an increasingly prominent role to play in the use of EU funds. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Law 17/2004 entered into force on 1 November 2015. The main aim of the adoption of the law was to put the implementation of domestic public procurement on a new footing by reviewing the legal environment for public procurement and the institutional system for public procurement and updating the relevant rules, thereby contributing to the achievement of socially and economically beneficial public procurement and the proper use of EU funding. Prior to the adoption of the new law, it was also a matter of simplifying, speeding up procedures, reducing administrative burdens, but all of this by increasing liability for the performance of the contract, under strict control of the proper performance of the contracts. The new law is the former 2011 CVIII. In many cases, it organises several basic legal institutions or detailed rules differently from the Public Procurement Act No 1 in accordance with EU directives. In view of this, it is necessary to amend certain laws referring to the former Public Procurement Act, such as references to OSH, postal services or adult education, in accordance with the new legal provisions, to amend certain laws containing specific provisions in line with new legislation, and to repeal rules that have become obsolete. Ladies and Gentlemen, From all of this, it can be concluded that, through the bill, we have a significant role to play in achieving these measures in order to make public procurement even simpler and faster, and that is why we are asking for support from T/6989. the adoption of bill No 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-05-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Apáti is the next speaker, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-05-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It does say everything about the public procurement law adopted a few weeks ago, that it had already been tabled before its entry into force, that it was four working days before its entry into force, and that it was already necessary to negotiate, because it is so urgent that the law on public procurement, which was in principle established through broad social consultations, professional consensus and the request for the opinion of professional organisations, should be resolved, but this basically calls into question the correctness of the law adopted a few weeks ago in its entirety. In many cases, the feeling of a man should immediately allow a strong criticism that Jobbik would obviously not support a system, a legal system where there would not be a public procurement law, but even if the entire law were to be repealed and there were no law on public procurement in Hungary, the system built by Fidesz over the last five years would still work perfectly, since according to the current public procurement law and its amendments - respect for the exception - depends on whether it is easier or more difficult to paper the law. We can, in practice, create administrative obstacles, to a small extent - to quote Minister Lazarus as a great classic - in order to prevent theft. On 16 December 2013, Minister Lázár had a bold statement in Balmazújváros that the next few years would receive HUF 7500 billion of EU funds in Hungary, and the aim, I quote, is to steal as little as possible, he said, and what remained after the thefts would benefit the country and the nation as far as possible. So his statement in the Agriculture Sub-Committee - about thefts and the public agricultural companies - was not unique, but merely continued his statements in December 2013, and probably was not the second and not the last statement he made to the committee. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Returning to the law and not repeating the critical comments made by those who spoke before me or those who spoke before me, I would like to point out just a few of them. One of them, which may touch less meat-cutting forints, is the situation of official public procurement consultants, in the old way, and the system of responsible accredited public procurement consultants, in new terms. Lawyers can also perform this activity. I would like to point out that in this respect, the old regulation was much better, since it is recalled that the Kbt in force from 1 May 2004. In his view, the strict conditions that had to be met for the serious references that had to be made in order to carry out official public procurement advisory activities, with specific professional liability insurance, were a rather strict and clear set of rules. Compared to that, there's been total relaxation over the last five years. Just because someone is a lawyer and has a legal exam, it is not certain that they are familiar with the law on public procurement and other related legislation, the entire legislation, as it can be said without exaggeration, this has now become a separate legal field, public procurement is a separate area of law, and those who are generally familiar with the Hungarian legal system as a lawyer are not necessarily able to comply with public procurement requirements as a much more specific area of expertise. So this is one of the problems. Here, however, we should consider creating much stricter conditions. On the one hand, it would also be fairer for those who, sweating blood between 2004-10, met the requirements to become consultants, and now they see that this knowledge, professional experience, the vast amount of justified knowledge, then even in the old system, a simple national and EU procedure can actually go to the trash can in this sense. [[15.00]] After all, it is now practically possible to become an accredited consultant by relaxing these rules. By the way, the old name was much simpler. It doesn't make it any better to rename it and give it a longer, more complicated name. What is very interesting is the encryption around possible immigration procedures and private negotiation, closed processing. This, by the way, is probably in a larger part in line with what I published yesterday after a long research, data collection, that you carried out amazing over-pricing, or that the fence builders carried out the physical border lock, and that's the most disgusting thing, without public procurement or public procurement, you can't imagine. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, that if a thief steals at the place of public danger, he may, in view of this, expect a significantly more serious punishment in view of the place where he was committed, since he is a qualifying circumstance for the crime at the place of public danger in the criminal code of theft. And those who have carried out public procurement in connection with the construction of fences have carried out a civil or humanitarian disaster in the middle of a national international emergency with overpriced cases of suspected infidelity, but, of course, classical corruption itself cannot be excluded - what other reason is there for the five-fold, eight-fold overpriced? Let me give you a few examples of this, put it in the minutes, say here in the House walls what your government or executive staff is doing in the area of the physical border closure. And I'll let you know that the Jobbik's position on the fence hasn't changed. In recent weeks, we have to be very careful with words about Jobbik in the midst of petty acts, oligarchations, and forgings. We supported the fence, the fence is important, it is necessary, if we had to vote now, it would be supported by the Jobbik faction. We don't have a problem with the fence. We have a problem with your budget, using wasteful public money. This does not mean that many times the necessary costs can be consumed by such an investment, and this is such an unscrupulous, hyena-, unscrupulous mentality that ten billion numbers waste taxpayers' money, with the trust of people, national, and, where appropriate, international confidence, if not by international political actors, but by increasing confidence in the voters and human communities of many other countries. After three months of secrecy - even without a public procurement law - the data, those accounts, my fellow Members, have been released, from which either the suspected overpriced theft or the total chaos is unfolding. What it means to obtain materials without public procurement procedures, even for such an important investment as fence building, a few examples should be mentioned here. The NATO blade wire of approximately 600 HUF gross could be purchased for 2800 HUF. The otherwise 300-400 HUF visibility vests could be bought for 2400 HUF. They were able to pay $1 million for 350 locks. For unplanned costs - to say a larger item - 500 million, with a completely amazingly weak breakdown. A previous question was answered that military tents do not need to be obtained, because it is available in military warehouses. Then it turned out that 84 million had somehow been applauded. They ordered a service car from the best bar at 5.5 million forints. Do you understand? The best bar.hu. Then there's more, I'll tell you more. Wireless telecommunications companies have ordered resources and tools. The volume of wire, wire or blade wire was determined in tonnes, in miles or kilometres, and in rolls, so that the simple opposition representative could follow these accounts as hard as possible. In many places, there were no exact quantities. After the rental arrangement, the rental period was not written, the exact rental period projected for the month and the day. For a maximum of 5-6 million forints, pile-beating machines were purchased at a price of 30 million forints. Three were bought for $90 million, and then on another line you can see that six were rented for $30 million. Well, would the lease have been worth it more now, or would the sale have been worth it more? Probably, by the way, the lease, because I hardly believe that, beyond building a fence, you have to use pile-beating machines in bulk. You see, fellow Members? This is why we have very serious doubts about exceptions if we do not have to conduct public procurement procedures with a mandate from a legislative or parliamentary committee. I note that, given the importance of innovation and R &amp; D for Jobbik as well, we can accept the exception of this, all our bad feelings, bad experience, despite the very serious and billions of abuse of the aforementioned fence construction, we do not want to become a tie-breaker for R &amp; D and innovation. We can also accept that we should spend certain EU funds for meaningful purposes, not tie our hands, not become our own enemies in order to get these money stuck. Although I am afraid that this is not just a matter of getting as much of these resources down as possible, we are afraid that in many cases this will result in thefts and crimes of public law again. But to mention a very important exception rule, I also mentioned it here in the Chamber a few minutes ago to the Secretary of State and to the experts, which is very important for the Hungarian agriculture, in relation to the applications of the rural development programme not exceeding 50 per cent. At the moment, it seems that the net amount of HUF 25 million - let's just call it - is no public procurement obligation for agricultural aid. Between HUF 25 and HUF 100 million, there is now a direct invitation system for four bidders - to be more precise, this is not a restricted procedure, it is a completely different procedure - the procedure starting with the direct submission of the call for proposals, it must be sent to three tenderers, now four tenderers from 1 November, and the open announcement procedure is above HUF 100 million, if I interpret the current amount of legislation correctly. On the one hand, this should be simplified and, on the other hand, consider that if we leave it this way, and the exceptions in this direction, in a completely lifelike way, are not extended or amended so, then if a simple farmer, a small or medium-sized farmer, because I am talking about them - not the simics, not the oligarchs, the agricultural SMEs, if you like - they win 25 million HUF 200 thousand net worth, let us say, a purchase of machinery, maybe an installation tender or any supply or ordering of services, don't give God, construction aid money, then they have a public procurement obligation. This is problematic even for procedures starting with the direct submission of a call for proposals, because they obviously do not have the expertise, it is not the job of a farmer, a farmer, to push papers and carry out public procurement procedures, but to produce and work - not to prevent them, but to help them - and if there is still a public notice obligation, it is worse because there are a number of additional costs and additional administration. For this reason, I suggest that we consider, as you have the majority in Parliament at the moment, that, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture, only in the case of aid intensity exceeding 50 per cent, there should be any public procurement obligation. So it's important not only because it's exceptionally rare, but also because you should think about it if you put half or more of your own money into a development, it's easy to see that it's not legal and it's not logical that he even conducts a partial or a larger part of a public procurement procedure in order to spend his own money, since the rate of support in this lineup is at best 50 percent and, most often, less than 50 percent. So either link the public procurement obligation to the intensity of the aid, to the level of the aid - so far it has worked well. So we should not always throw the old rules in the trash, because it has worked so reassuringly so far, it has not caused any outrage or more indignation among agricultural businesses. It may also be possible to consider that if you attach the dog to the stake - although I hope that this time you will not, and that common sense will prevail - that we are bound to a certain threshold, and not only the intensity of the aid, but if you insist on it, then the threshold will also count, in this case I propose a significantly higher limit than 25 million. But if we wanted to solve this with one stroke, a pen stroke, a hussar cut, it would be much better, it would be much simpler and more transparent to the intensity of the aid, to the extent of the aid, to the obligation of small and medium-sized enterprises in this respect to public procurement. And not only do I use the term "agricultural small and medium-sized enterprises" because my constituency is a traditional agricultural area, most of the people live from the ground, from agriculture, but also because there are, of course, other applications within the rural development programme. [[15.10]] I would like to stress again that in this respect I am not talking about local or other contracting authorities, but about agricultural entrepreneurs who have won EU funds, peasants in the classic and noble sense of the word, who will sweat blood with this public procurement obligation, and in fact, most often in this case they will not apply, or they will not call down the existing amount of tender because they will not be able to find their way through this forest of legislation, and they will rightly be outraged that if they put a large part of the funds into a development, then why they will be obliged to add such an extremely difficult, opaque procedure or procedural order. I therefore ask you to consider setting a rule of exception based solely on the intensity of the aid, the level of the aid in this respect. Again, I stress, and we underline this with two lines in order to avoid twists and stupidities, that this is not the oligarchs, not the large owners, but, to a decisive extent, the small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture that Jobbik wants to put in a favourable position. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-05-84	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP is not present, so the speaker's speech ended. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa in a normal time frame.
u2015-11-05-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, you have tried a lot. This is a compliment that the Hungarian Parliament is also trying to defend the honour of the mundé in extremely impossible situations created by the government, even here, even though a very sad legislative process is part of the amendment of the laws called public procurement on this occasion. What am I thinking? The increasingly complex, but difficult to use, legislative environment is corrected by elements such that the pious observer, whom we officially call public opinion, is not able to monitor what you are doing. So they form a legislative environment, that is what the system of national cooperation is about, so that no control, no professional control can stop on a legal basis, because you always build a loophole that might make professional control consistent, or that will help you to pull the process out of professional control. It's very dangerous. So, on the one hand, it seems that you are obliged to try to comply with an EU set of rules, but at the same time, according to domestic NER practice, you put in such loopholes, such as now, for example, that on one side, you have a nice accreditation of public procurement consultants, but at the same time you are opening a door-to-door loophole, so that, of course, every lawyer you trust can do this. So, small details like this, or - not even cuckoo eggs, rather - ostrich eggs in this proposal, which means the passage to investment in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, or questions about the organisation of the World Swimming and Open Water Championships, legislate elements that do not fit the public's system at all and are not really justified. The fact that certain acceleration elements are being implemented for the World Swimming Championship is considered justified, although there is a question of how profitable this will serve, but at the same time a counterproductive solution is chosen for the nuclear power plant investment, because in assessing nuclear safety - this is a world trend - the public, honesty only improves the situation that the public accepts nuclear energy. All kinds of secrecy are difficult for society to accept and impair the level of acceptance. So when you bring in a proposal to amend 15 laws a few days after the urgent public procurement law has entered into force, it is the proverb of the ingenuity of the Hungarian language - or rather, I think it is a saying, because it is rather short - it proves the truth that work is rarely good. So this legislative process, which started with the public procurement law that entered into force on 1 November and continues now with this amendment concerning 15 laws, shows everyone that this work that you have done quickly is rarely good. I'm very empathetic, and I'm actually sorry about your professional staff working on this because there are two kinds of people there. One who sees it, tries to write it well, and suffers from not being allowed to do so. The other one probably has goals, there are political expectations about what can be bridged, and they probably don't understand this process, because life proves that they do not form consistent laws. So I suggest to you that you act in accordance with your own intentions and your stated goals; that the objectives that you have formulated in your proposal or in the contributions of your pro-government representatives, which we can join, that public procurement be clear, transparent, controlled by the profession and public opinion, not only in your introductions or in your contributions, but also be reflected in a consistent, feasible and enforceable bill. So, for most of these areas, the original Kbt. in his debate, we drew attention. So these hiatus, which you are trying to replace here, were already clearly visible, and we really don't understand what the big vest used to be, with which these comments were simply ignored. And actually, it's hard to understand that if you didn't have a complete overview of them then, then why don't you do a more thorough job now. So here's the proposal, the salad bill's proposal, which unfortunately reflects the government's repeated and hasty decision. In fact, we have the good intentions of using EU funds in the field of public procurement as soon as possible, of course we agree with the original intention, but we believe it is critical that this proposal continues to destroy the democratic approach to public procurement processes concerning control, transparency and continues to distort competition on the market. This draft still cannot limit the spending of public funds, the guarantee of which is unfortunately not included in this proposal. On this basis, assessing that at least they recognized that the new public procurement law in its original form was inoperative and that they had made an attempt to complete it, this cannot be considered as meeting the goals which they themselves set, so unfortunately we cannot support this on the part of the MSZP. [[15.20]] We recommend that this be discussed in a broader professional context, and even by involving EU experts, a useful, functional law on public procurement, including criticism and support for professional and wider public opinion, should be put in place. It is a very important issue, it is about public confidence, it is about the use of public money. It is not appropriate to proceed with such a process of absolving and absolving, so I suggest that you do not choose this path, but, in an edited version, put in place a clear, professionally founded law. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-05-86	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2015-11-05-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not repeat the proposals made by my fellow Member Jozsa, but I will confirm it in my first sentence. My second sentence is that we are discussing public procurement issues two times today, i.e. for the second time, on the one hand, the 6985 and, on the other, the 6983 bill. The issues of international development cooperation, international humanitarian aid and public procurement were one of them, which was on agenda item 1 at today's parliamentary meeting, and now public procurement within the framework of bill 6983 at the last item on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, and, if I may, I would also recommend to Mr President that consideration and consideration be given to the fact that the Hz rules are set out in Rule 33. Article 2 of the Act states that the same subject - I am talking about public procurement - cannot be discussed in two formats between the walls of Parliament. Moreover, not only in one session, but in one period, but in the same day, these two laws are being negotiated. The 6983, which we are discussing here, is, to my knowledge, preventing 6985 from being given, so now this debate is justified in this sense, but the debate that we have had on item 1 was not justified by the fact that this, which is justified on the grounds of prevention, was not justified in my view. [[Dr. István Józsa: Violation of the Rules of the House 33. §8 of the EC Treaty.]] Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I believe that it violates Rule 33 of the Rules of the House. § of this process. I'd like to consider that. If I am right, I would like to say that, as I see that the extensive governance structure is not sufficient to ensure proper coordination, therefore, with a calm spirit - although I have not yet agreed on the matter - we will even help to comply with the house rules on the part of the government, even without compensation, when I believe that this type of submission is not properly and legally made in line with the house rules. Well, so much for shape, but that's also important, because if there's a house rule, then I think these forms need to be followed. The other part of the matter is that the law on public procurement, which was negotiated between the walls of Parliament earlier, came into force on 1 November, so it has been in a state of operation since 1 November. In other words, it is now the 5th, which is four days past, and we are faced with negotiating a new bill, and we are already touching what was in force four days ago. In addition, according to my memoirs, the submission even precedes the date of entry into force of the previously discussed draft law. Well, it's kind of a shitty story, I have to say, it doesn't seem very thoughtful, and I don't think it's the kind of legislation that is born in this regard, but also in other laws. In particular, in addition to the formality of public procurement, my readings tell me - for example, Transparency International - that public procurement in Hungary has serious corruption risks. If that is the case, then obviously there is something to be done in this regard. These serious corruption risks can also be identified in the European Commission's decision of 10 April 2015 according to my judgement. I am setting an example of this in the context of the economic operational programme. It reveals serious problems, such as the issue of overpriced, coupled with more expensive receptions than market prices. In addition, there is scope for competition and transparency. The European Union's country report in Hungary also refers to this on the basis of the issue of close contractual relations between business and political circles. I think it is worth considering and considering these ideas, because when, on the basis of references to the national security aspect, closed or non-competitive procurement is carried out where appropriate, they may at least raise doubts as to whether everything is okay. But I do not want to mention the examples that have already been given by other Members, such as the specific costs and much more in the context of the fence-building story. All my knowledge shows that there are factual findings in this sense. In specific cases, in the framework of public procurement, it is precisely the reverse of all what should be done, i.e. to make things cheaper and more efficient. In fact, it is more expensive and in the interests of circles that, in some sense, are in some way related to politics. And if that is the case, and we hear quite a lot of examples, we see in this regard, then I think that this is not right. If it is a public procurement, then these types of questions need to be rethinked in a sense, so that the type of customization of the story does not exist, that when we were a few years ago, other oligarchs obtained resources than when the new oligarchs appeared. But in the end, they're all connected to or near the government. I can't remember the exact figures, I can only say the order of magnitude, but within the framework of public procurement, for example Simicska and Simicska-consortiums, interests were able to reach 400 billion HUF of resources. If I'm right about this number, and I think I'm right about 400 billion forints, do you know how much? Four hundred thousand million forints. Just to make it clear to those who listen or watch what we're talking about. Then Simicska drifted to the side, turned to the side, had revelations, marked revelations, and they probably did not help to become friends at a later stage, but they came in instead of new ones, there are new gas mechanics, there are others who gain sufficient ease through public procurement to access a multitude of resources. I don't think that's right. It is not good to get to who has access to development resources or resources through any other type of state aid through such distortions. I don't think that's what public procurement is for. As far as public procurement is concerned, this draft law says that subsidies of more than HUF 25 million are automatically subject to public procurement, in this sense it does not matter whether EU aid or state aid are public procurement. So if the aid is more than HUF 25 million, it is automatically subject to a public procurement procedure. [[15.30]] This is the four-part story that we have mentioned here today, that it must be accompanied by the appearance of four bidders and open procedures must be carried out at thresholds above HUF 100 million. But now in this draft law - whether I read it correctly or not - help me, Mr Secretary - the change is that this automaticism is being overturned. In fact, in the case of EU and state subsidies of more than HUF 25 million, automation, which carried the obligation of public procurement procedures, will not be the case in the future if individual government decisions - if I remember correctly - and processes combined with individual job creation support are brought to life. I think that, in some cases and in a sense, where we make facilitations is important. But I would also like to add that making these facilitations must be for the benefit of society and not for the benefit of some. My fellow Member, Józsa, spoke about a specific matter, the question of knowledge of accreditation rules, which is vague to us in a sense. This is about the fact that public procurement consultants in previous years had to be able to meet tough enough professional requirements in order to carry on this type of activity. This is where the lawyers come in. Actually, the question is, just like that or how, how. The peculiarities and professional knowledge that public procurement experts had to acquire and testify to, should lawyers do the same? Or it doesn't have to be done, because there are some buddies who have been stumbled over over the past few years, and they will be able to carry out these tasks with legal permissions, even if they can, in a manner of speaking, fit, link, expectable knowledge to the public procurement consultant, and, where appropriate, do not have or do not have such a depth. It would be good to give a fair and fair answer to this, so that we can see the evolution of the events of the coming period. I don't know how else to say it, I don't want to say it, and I find it unacceptable that, in the context of a social consultation, you should spend a day - a day! - they're insured. That's practically all they wanted for social consultation. You can say something else, but factually, that's what it's all about. I also cannot tolerate the fact that I think that in a salad law they are rushing this decision again, which is linked to this issue, and what has already been said is that we have said the things that I think are now being brought into Parliament in a house-breaking manner, that it should have been done then. They didn't. Now, I'm telling you, technically, I think they're doing it against house rules, but I think it's going to have to be done at the same rate, or at the same rate, or with an internal content that's going to make this all a bit hasty, and it's going to have to be corrected again later. I've got a feeling it's gonna give us some space. I do not want to say, because I do not think that they want to legalise it, but they allow room for further strengthening of corruption, which, according to the European value judgment, has not decreased, but has increased in Hungary over the past few years, on the basis of various study experiences. There is a great deal of research and investigation, not by man, but also by government. I see that the processes that they generate distort competition in the market further distort the development of competition in the market. I would also like to add that, in a sense, they are trying to create the limitlessness of public spending. Therefore, the possibility of exiting public procurement, where appropriate, will be opened up in a broad range that will lead to or in the direction of virtually no limits on public spending. You know, Mr Secretary of State, draft law 6985, discussed this morning, was about not applying EU standards or thresholds if we move forward in an external aid case or if we make decisions in humanitarian aid or crisis management. There are some things in this that can be understood, accepted, supported, but all that is reflected through the current 6983, combined with individual government decisions or the addition of individual job creation grants, could be supplemented with other things. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much. It would be good if, once in a bloc, a draft law was put into the walls of this House and the proposals made by the opposition were taken into account. I hope that this will happen someday. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-11-05-88	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-11-05-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, We are discussing a very important law once again, and inevitably during the general debate here, and the anomalies that unfortunately surround public procurement in Hungary arise in the speech of my fellow Members. Since 2010, we have been constantly hearing from you, and I even believe that you have also tried to create a well-meaning situation in Hungary, to ensure that there is transparent procurement procedures and a public procurement medium free of all lobbying in Hungary today. The problem is that you have been promising this since 2010. This promise began with the famous sentence of Viktor Orbán that the time of the offshore knights and similar sentences had expired here, and then we noticed that none of this would happen. After all, in the last 25 years there has not been anything almost right in Hungary with public procurement, but it can be said that from 2010 onwards, from the second Orbán government, the whole public opinion is due to your powerful work, that when someone hears that public procurement, they start to talk about mussi, theft and the loopholes, because that's what comes to their mind. Here we can list the very, very many cases that can be brought here as examples. We can talk here from the fall of the NFÜ through the fact that there are different oligarchs here depending on how close they were to the Orbán government, how they won public procurement procedures, then how they fell out of this picnic, and then after they didn't win public procurement procedures, there were new ones instead, we could all say that, but one thing is for sure, the circle of public procurement procedures in Hungary has become a scene of reasoning and debauchery. Here we could mention orders below the public procurement threshold, which were just below it, and then we shouldn't have, a lot of cases that I think are also criminal offences, but even though we've made countless complaints to the D.A. over the last few years, somehow the investigation has always been stopped, and somehow it's always turned out that there weren't even crimes here. What's to back it up? It also confirms, think about it, that these cases may not be that far ahead of you. As my fellow Member, István Apáti, said that if, in a case so visible as the protection of our southern border, to which all Europe, all Hungary, is watching, there can be overpriced charges such as those which he has constantly listed, you will allow yourself to, say, suspect that such an investment, such as a project, would be a problem. Then what about the cases that aren't in the foreground? I would like to draw the attention of my fellow pro-government Members to the fact that we are not going to stop on this issue, the fence building, because we have not heard such a rather small news in recent days, namely that Slovenia is also thinking about building a fence on its border, on the Croatian-Slovenian border, which, in our opinion, would be correct, since it would try to protect the Schengen border in Slovenia. [[15.40]] But the reason they haven't started is because of the news of the fence construction, because these so-called NATO blade barbed wire has not arrived yet, and the news is that they mention two variations, one is that they acquire these NATO barbed wire from Poland, the other is that they buy it from Hungary. And the question of who will sell these NATO wires to the Slovenians again will arise, if there is, whether there will be any margins between purchasing and selling, and whether anyone will look for them. So I'm just going to tell you in advance so you can prepare for this so that there won't be a bigger scandal, that we're going to follow up on it, and, yes, we're going to try to find out if Slovenia is actually getting the facilities from us for its fence. And the question also arises, and it is right to wonder whether public procurement can function normally in Hungary in relation to such a history. And I have to say that it could work, and I can clearly set an example for you. So you can change laws, you can make new rules, the point is always how much of these laws and these rules we respect. And once again, as a token of my goodwill, I think it is conceivable that, let us say, János Lázár's statements about the fact that he would like to carry out a transparent, clean, lobby-free public procurement in Hungary, he meant it. The problem is that you are so committed to certain people, certain powerful people, who, let's say, participate in these public procurement procedures or are so committed to certain offshore companies who also want to put some of these money in their own pockets that they cannot resist these things and cannot resist this lobbying activity, which is why there are so many problems in the area of public procurement. And then allow me to give you the example that I say that public procurement could function normally in Hungary. If you look at it and you can look back calmly, between 2006 and 2010, the Metropolitan Assembly paid HUF 6 billion as compensation to companies that started out in public procurement procedures and which were so-called damaged in public procurement procedures, i.e. HUF 6 billion. So in four years, companies who only started public procurement procedures, but for some reason they suffered damage, paid HUF 6 billion at the time, we know that the municipality under the leadership of the nearby Mayor of SZDSZ. Then, in 2010, he became the president of the Budapest Public Procurement Committee. This better-looking president - I'll only tell you two short stories - his first act was that he went to the first such meeting in an investment, sat in and listened to him, sat at a table, where the various main contractors and subcontractors agreed on who would do what for what, how he would overcharge and who would bill. And when the round came to him and they asked him which company he was from, he said he wasn't from the company, he was the new president of the public procurement committee, and what he heard here was just outrageous. I would add that a new procurement procedure was launched for this project, because, of course, there would have been overpriced here as well. And here's the example I've given, so once again, between 2006 and 2010, the metropolitan government will pay 6 billion forints in public money, and how much will it pay between 2010 and 2014 when there is a better president of the public procurement committee? Zero, or zero forints. Zero forints. So for four years the public procurement procedures in the capital were able to go normally. Why were they able to walk normally? Because we are not committed to anyone, we could not come to us and say that this should be done or should be done, that should give or should be given a discount, that should be done in a preferential procedure - or that should be the case. In each case, the procurement procedures were conducted in such a way that the absolute conformity with the laws and laws in force was complied with. This is the basis for Hungary's normal functioning of public procurement procedures, that it should comply with laws and regulations. I mean, even though we make laws here, we make different rules here if we don't follow them. And the last example I would like to give you is that you brought it, you know very well, from 1 January 2012 it came into force that there is no way for offshore companies with an opaque ownership structure to obtain public funds in Hungary. So this meant that they couldn't apply for EU funding, because this is always a debate about whether this is public money in Hungary. In our opinion, it's public money. In particular, it is public money when we know very well that 15 percent of Hungarian public money is included in EU applications. What happened when we saw six months after January 1, 2012, what kind of money did the National Development Agency issue? What happened was that we found payments worth HUF 37 billion that migrated to offshore companies with an opaque ownership structure. There's no law if you don't follow it. And out of this 37 billion forints, with my own knowledge, a penny has not been sued back, and a penny has not been returned. It was all public money. So once again, we would like to see what you say in words and rhetoric happen in Hungary, when there will be a Jobbik government in this country, as the example has said, my example mentioned at the Metropolitan Assembly will be realized, with the Jobbik Government, believe me, transparent, transparent and normal procurement procedures will be carried out that will be normally controlled by everyone, and public money will only be spent if everyone is able to do so, and the companies that are going to win will be in a position, the companies that deserve it the most according to a public procurement procedure. And it's not gonna be up to us to decide who wins, it's not gonna be up to us who does different jobs, different purchases, whose friend, relative, brother-in-law or son-in-law. So the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, when it comes to power, will be realised in Hungary to ensure that public procurement works normally, but until then we can only hope that, if we make laws and make these laws so that the public procurement procedures in Hungary or the atmosphere related to the whole of public procurement can be more normal in Hungary, this will only happen if everyone really wants to do so, is serious and can be independent from the expectations that unfortunately characterised Hungary in the last 25 years and described XX. Party of the century. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-11-05-90	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-11-05-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly: I forgot to say one more thought, Mr Secretary, and I would like to draw your attention to this. So if we are going to achieve the result through other means through public procurement processes, en bloc, for example, that the chain debts - there was such an initiative in the previous period - should be reduced and eliminated, then I think that there is a point in the type of processes that have been formulated within the framework of the adoption of the previous public procurement law. But there is absolutely no point in the type of measures that shape certain customizations. Which provide a set of conditions and allow you to predict who comes out of the tube at the end. So I'm not saying this, and it's said by a lot of entrepreneurs from productive experience, by a multitude of leaders of farming organisations, but obviously not on the political stage for you, because then you have no chance of getting anywhere near any support. I would like to mention one more thing at the end, and the fact that the formal compliances that you impose are not good if things in their content do not come back the way they should. For example, from the previous period, it is one company who makes an offer halfway through public procurement. [[15.50]] You understand what I'm saying, don't you? This is what shapes and displays customization. We should take a path that is in the interests of the Hungarian people and not of some people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-05-92	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, to respond to what has been said. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]]
u2015-11-05-93	Thank you very much, Mr President, and Members for their constructive, critical contributions. Several of them have come to the conclusion that we have negotiated this law in two frameworks, but, in our view, this is not prohibited by house rules. In the case of different applicants, there is basically a pre-emptive principle, but in the case of identical applicants, the house rules provide for the possibility to negotiate up to two proposals. I will try to go through the questions raised each time. Excuse me if I repeat myself in some places, but many of them have had the same elements in their speeches, to which I would like to respond. First of all, I would like to respond to the voice of Mr Reliable. I would certainly not like to be impertinent and ask questions that are none of my business, but, Mr President, the last year has been all about discussing and negotiating the new law on public procurement with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the VOSZ, the opposition parties and several NGOs. There were several European Parliament forums in Brussels and Hungary. These were all open seats. If you miss the consultation behind the new Public Procurement Act, then I just have to ask you where you have been in the last year. Another aspect of his speech was the criticism of the direct payment of subcontractors, which the law may impose on the beneficiary's obligation, or that there is an opportunity, a measure, I think, which is important. It is important to put an end to round-line debts, since the payment of main business accounts cannot be made until all subcontractors have been certified to have been paid out. This can happen in two ways. Either the main contractor justifies the payment of all subcontractors, who has been designated as subcontractors in the procurement procedure, or there is also a possibility and possibility for the beneficiary to pay these subcontractors directly. If one procedure takes place, the other will become indestructible. So this is an option that we think guarantees the payment of the sub-contracting system and prevents the system of circular debt. This problem of HUF 25 million has been raised in what the Member has said and in several speeches, which arises in the new public procurement law in the case of the acquisition of machinery and makes a form of procurement compulsory. At the end of his speech, Mr Gúr mentioned the European Union debate that stems from overpriced prices. The two cases are very closely linked. An EU directive is being transposed by the government when it decides to make the application of a kind of procedure mandatory, even in the case of lower-value purchases, of course a relative concept of lower-value procurement. However, this is significantly different from the time when a fully open public procurement has to be launched. Here, the beneficiary contracting authority must demonstrate that it did not select the supplier selected on the basis of a bid, partly using the aid and partly using its own resources, but indeed provided the opportunity for market participants to be tested. This has a relatively simple form. He's uploading his offer to the Authority's website. Those who apply there must take account of the offer and may also apply for such offers in the case of the other case or from other potential suppliers. Mr Apáti mentioned the question of accredited public procurement consultants, the presumed softening of this rule and the possibility for lawyers to participate in this work. In the case of lawyers, this is only possible in the review procedure, but the application of the public procurement consultant is required in many cases by the Public Procurement Act. So we don't think we have that problem. However, if you consider this to be the case, it will be possible to present amendments to this issue during the professional debate. The fact that there is a direction in the new public procurement law that really gives different consultants less leeway is indeed true. However, the reform of the Public Procurement Act, in close connection with the restructuring of the EU tender system, was intended to significantly reduce the so-called light or soft costs that characterised the previous tender scheme. I think that there may be a parliamentary consensus in that, and there are few such cases in Hungary today, that the previous application system, which operated between 2007 and 13 in Hungary, required too much mediation. We have seen a lot of cases where 40-60 forints of the 100 forints won in the tender were spent not on the specific investment of the tender, but on the administration and other regulations around it. If the new public procurement law is indeed simpler than the previous system, then there is indeed a need for less external expertise for contracting beneficiaries. I partially replied to the 25 million HUF purchase. It is worth considering this issue for small family businesses in agriculture. This is about complying with an EU directive, but I think that if it is possible to find a point of balance where competition between offers can and should be the least administrative burden on family businesses, a partnership can and must be shown. It was a very important question if you recall the European Commission's debate 3-4 months ago that we are seeing a great deal of overpriced machinery purchases in Hungary. There appeared a presumption that I believe the European Commission and the government must take seriously, namely that the tendering system has not changed radically since the global economic crisis changed economic and financial conditions and financing conditions. As a result, in many cases the entrepreneurial self-force was essentially in the buffer with which it was overpriced. This is a presumption, we do not see the evidence of this, but we certainly see that this issue needs to be addressed. The case should also be dealt with so that over-prices that have occurred in these cases can be excluded. As a relief, I would like to say that all this type of dispute has been closed by the Government of Hungary with the European Commission and that it has been able to conclude that Hungary is not harmed by financial interests. It was precisely because of this question that Mr Gúr's suggestion was interesting. He either asks the government that there was an opportunity in which they could overpriced machinery - once again, we do not know whether it has happened, and because the European Commission is uncertain about it, this issue has been closed without discussion - or he asks that we have introduced a procedure which is trying to prevent it. You should decide, Congressman, which of the two positions you want to take. In the case of the national security exception, the government is determined to have a much smaller scope than previous legislation where this can be applied. The new law will, in our view, support this. We also call for the constructive attitude of opposition representatives. I would like to refer to several sentences by Mr Szilágyi. On the one hand, on the offshore issue, on the other hand, on the reform of the tendering system, and, on the third, on the debates on corruption risk whether in the media or in relation to the European Commission and the Hungarian government. Indeed, there are a lot of debates between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission about whether the European Commission considers it legitimate that there is a government that really considers it necessary to give priority support to domestic businesses, respecting all EU expectations that Hungary as a Member State of the European Union is obliged to do, but still giving any assistance to a Hungarian enterprise, a small and medium-sized enterprise, which is assisted by a German company from the German Government, an Austrian undertaking from the Austrian Government. Why is it not a problem for the European Commission, let us say, with regard to the concentration of the construction market, that an Austrian construction company takes 80% of all Austrian construction work? And why do they mention market concentration where less than 50 percent of Hungarian construction works are carried out by Hungarian businesses? We consider this to be a legitimate debate, and we believe that, in the case of a government that claims to be a patriot, it is also an obligation to take such steps, while complying with EU rules. In the context of the fall of the NFÜ, we inherited a system in 2010 that we were not satisfied with. We said at the time that there was no other option, that a system had to be taken by the end of 2013-14, because the European Union's tendering system could be accessed once every seven years. This was opened in 2014, and I think we have settled this issue with satisfaction. [[16.00]] Referring to the offshore issue, on 12 August 2013 it was Minister Lazarus who immediately ordered this investigation for all supported cases following the adoption of the NFÜ Prime Ministership. On the NFÜ website and now on the Széchenyi 2020 website, you will find all the companies and projects that we consider to have failed this investigation, and for each of them an irregularity procedure has been initiated, where the managing authority has taken a decision to recover the amounts paid to the project. This may be attacked and, in many cases, attacked by those involved, but at the end of this procedure, these funds will be reclaimed and recovered by the government. I thank you for your attention and ask you to take part in this debate. I think that Hungary can make significant progress if it establishes a public procurement system that complies with EU rules as quickly as possible and takes into account Hungarian economic interests. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-05-94	Dear Parliament, The amendments may no longer be submitted after 30 seconds. We have reached the end of the agenda, and no one has made contact with us after the agenda. I thank you for your work. We will resume the meeting on Monday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 16:1 p.m.]]
