u2015-05-19-0	Dear Parliament, Welcome. We'll start our work today. The 30th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Congressman Lajos Szűcs will be assisting me in this meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, the questions will take place from noon to 2:30 p.m., and then about 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-05-19-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, the news exploded that Zoltán Balog, the Minister of Human Resources, responded to my question in response to my question about the investigation into abuses in KLIK. In particular, I raised to the Minister whether he was finally willing to do something against the illegal practice of using a mass of KLIK to employ public workers for positions that should be held in public employment. But it's not just the KLIK, we know it. I spoke for the first time in September 2012 about similar municipal practices. I asked the municipal committee, which has been well-happened since then, to set up a subcommittee for control and to take action. This sub-committee has received a government president, and we have not made much use of it, even though the Ombudsman has written a lot about the situation with Mr Sándor Pintér in vain. However, there are increasing cases of public servants being fired in this country and hiring public workers. Sometimes they take them themselves, just often for half the salary. I can refer to a number of cases that ended with an ombudsman's inquiry, but nothing has changed in recent years. Now, of course, we understand why. That's because the government was playing a direct game to make it cheaper to perform certain public tasks. But let's see how you hacked the laws. It should be noted that there was a guarantee that such a case would not occur earlier, namely the Government Decree No 375/2010 on public employment grants, which stated that public workers could only be recruited if the number of the institution in question increased. However, you have repealed this point of the regulation in the public sector in November 2013, and it was this regulation that stipulated that the only way to hire a public worker is to not fire anyone from that institution. Now, that's what you guys took out. From then on, there has been a free career for institutions, municipalities, public administration, and the municipalities have taken advantage of it, given that you have completely bled them out. But let's talk a little bit about what's beyond the law; what you have done, in particular, Fidesz-KDNP, with the help of your active help, to put them out of their jobs so that they can do the same job many times as public workers, often by the people you've dropped off, who used to be civil servants. These people make 50-60 thousand forints instead of the previous 100-120,000 forints while doing the same job. And it's because of you, these people. And the terrible thing is that no public servant can be safe these days, because at any time there can be a restriction in the public sector, in public administration, in schools, in cultural houses, in local governments, and they can be told that, see you again, and if you're lucky, you can continue to work after a while, only as a public employee, and only for half as much money. What do you think you're doing? Does the principle of equal pay for equal work mean anything else to you? Or, say, the principle of legal certainty? Or is it not possible to treat someone in a discriminatory way? It happens, and I've also received signs that a so-called dislikable public servant is on his feet, and then they hire a so-called sympathetic person as a public employee instead, and he does the work of the former, but much cheaper. I ask you not to talk about working little people and hardworking little people and tax cuts to top ten people, but to appreciate the working Hungarian man and wages, if you please. The LMP appreciates every man and every working man, and we're asking for wages to make these people feel respect! I ask you to stop spending on one side - we see the budget plan for 2016; 500 billion forints is there, which we can safely call the money thrown out of the window, and on the other side there are not 15 billion people who ask for a very small, very modest wage increase. I am thinking of social workers here, but I can also mention ten thousand daycare workers who have been treated for the manyth time just last week, and I can mention all civil servants who are not now safe in this country because they can end up as public workers at any time. Dear Government, Dear Parliament, Today, I am submitting the LMP bill so that this illegal practice can finally end in this country, and all civil servants can work in the knowledge that they will not be posted in exchange for a public worker. I demand that you support the bill of may-be-others politics, finally have legal certainty in this area, and I also ask you, and we stand by the Committee on Budgets to set up its otherwise binding control subcommittee, and examine throughout the country how many people have been harmed and compensated. Thank you.
u2015-05-19-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás responds.
u2015-05-19-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The clear aim of public employment is that people who are temporarily unable to get a job in the primary labour market should be able to live, not out of aid, but out of work, and to support their families. The objective of the government is clearly that as many people as possible who are employed in public employment today will be put on the primary labour market and can get jobs there under market conditions. The government - and, of course, I think that we can also agree with these municipalities - has no interest in creating a public employment position in any state position or replacing any civil servant or civil servant position with a public employment position. But it is not only a matter of desire, but also clearly impossible by the current legislation. In order for an organisation to enter public employment as a public employee, it is necessary to make commitments. Among other things, it must undertake that no dismissal has taken place in the job in which it intends to employ a public employee three months before that job. It must undertake that, in the job in which it intends to employ a public employee, if a public employee is employed in addition to a public employee, the public employee cannot be dismissed. Public workers should therefore not crowd out civil servants from such a job. You claim to be a mass of this phenomenon. We can't find the mass of this phenomenon, it's not visible at all. Indeed, Minister Zoltán Balog has agreed - at a committee hearing, I think it is a perfectly natural and understandable step that the Minister undertakes to examine whether this has happened within the organisation of the CLIK that you raised at the time. The investigation is under way, but it can be seen that this type of mass step is that instead of civil servants, public employees are employed, there is no such thing, it is simply not true. [[11.10]] What I'm asking is that if you have any specific knowledge of this, if you have actually been approached by civil servants who have done so, help the EMMI Minister to find these people. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Shouldn't we steer for you?]] What is absurd is that you claim that they will be dismissed from the status of civil servants and immediately rehired as public employees. This is impossible in the first place, since public employment has its own mechanism, so it is not possible in itself, and that, as you claim, is entirely untrue. You say you respect all people, respect all employees. If they do so, do not make these people false, and do not scare them completely unnecessarily. What you said about the amendment of the government decree, Congresswoman, is absolutely - I'm sorry, but - it's based on a misunderstanding and a mistake. The Government regulation, which was necessary to amend, was amended because a new public employment programme could be launched on the basis of the Government decree if the number of employees employed was increased, honourable Member, and the number of public workers already employed was included in it. And perhaps it is clear to you that there is no such thing as more and more people being employed in the same workplace, but there is some kind of barrier, a work barrier, in Hungarian: it is impossible to increase the number of people employed indefinitely. The amendment of this government decree was just to get this passage out of the way, and not to have to... - in Hungarian: to start a new program for employers who have already employed public employees within the framework of a programme. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, the investigation is being conducted, the Department of Human Resources will examine and investigate whether this really happened at the KLIK, and especially what you said was a mass of thousands. What I'm asking you to do is, if you have information like this, help me with this investigation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting address with the title MSZP:. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party expects and expected the government to break off with its economic and social policies so far, breaking up with a policy that benefits the few, while hitting the majority of the country. In this expectation, we were disappointed. The tax laws and budget bill submitted by the government have failed the majority of Hungarians, as it maintains the fraudulent social and economic policy that favours primarily those who earn the most, those who own the largest businesses, those companies that make separate deals with the government and those companies, those who are friends of Fidesz. According to press reports since last week, it is no secret that this is so true that a minister of the government and the Prime Minister himself admitted that, yes, the list of winners is essentially approved by the Prime Minister. This is an untenable state. It is an untenable condition because, in return, the majority of workers, those without income, small entrepreneurs are in a tight position and remain in a tight position. However, the bill submitted also contains serious omissions. This bill has failed health care, health care workers, this bill has failed education, this bill has failed the social sphere, this bill has failed the municipalities. The MSZP will therefore draw up amendments that will change this and launch economic and social policy in the right direction. We will make proposals that will primarily benefit medium- and low-income workers. They were also abandoned by the government, because the submitted reduction of only 1 percent in practice means that if a person's income is low, it means a tax reduction of a thousand forints to him, if one has a sufficiently high income, and in his case it could reach up to HUF 20,000 a month; it should be the other way around. We want to increase net wages. We want to increase net wages by tax reduction, so that this net wage increase does not put small and medium-sized enterprises in a difficult position, generally does not put employers in a difficult position, whether in the competitive sector or in the public sector; because, yes, people are now earning so little in the competitive and public sector that the poverty of their employees is spreading in the country. While in the past, who had a job income, he could expect to get along, this has changed radically. It changed radically, because while under socialist governments no personal income tax was payable on the minimum wage, the Orbán government hit personal income tax with a 16 per cent additional tax, the minimum wage was taxed at 16 per cent. This policy must be changed. The net wage increase will stand at the node of our amendments, and the majority of the country will benefit from this proposal, which will be achieved by tax cuts, which will not put small and medium-sized enterprises in a difficult situation, and in our amendments we intend to support abandoned health, education policy and social policy, as well as local governments. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would ask you to support the amendments tabled and thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-19-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2015-05-19-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is not the first time his memory has failed the MP of the Hungarian Socialist Party, and it is now Sándor Burány. So it is not the 2016 budget that will let people down, but the budget that you made in 2008-2009, and I apologize, that you did not make it, but that the 2009 budget and the convergence programme submitted at the time were also prepared under the guardianship of the IMF. Well, that's the budget, and that's when they let people down. But how? For example, by taking away their 13th month pension by taking their 13th month salary away from civil servants and civil servants. [[Dr. László Kács: Won't you give it back?]] Instead, what happens now? What happens is that every year, with tax cuts and career models, government employees are included in the circle of people whose wages and salaries are settled over the long term. For example, teachers will receive a further 10 percent increase this year as well as a 60 percent increase this year, even next year, until they reach the 100 percent increase; this is the Fidesz government's hit-and-run. But in other respects, they have no pride, they cannot be proud of that period, since inflation was then 6.1 percent; it is a tax on the poor. If anyone, if any government had harmed the poor in Hungary, it was the MSZP government, with the economic policy it had done at the time. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Now the rate of inflation is zero or minus percent, so there is no inflation. But the same is the case with regard to unemployment, because at that time only 3 million 700 000 people worked in Hungary, now more than 4 million 100 000 people, then the unemployment rate reached almost 12 percent, now around 7 percent. According to the MSZP, this is Fidesz's hit-and-run. [[11.20]] But the same is true of the level of public debt, as you have raised it above 80 per cent of GDP; in fact, since the change in government debt has gradually decreased. But perhaps the decline in GDP shows your economic policy, your failure when Hungary was abandoned, because GDP did not increase, but decreased by 6.4 percent, and today the performance of Hungarian people has made economic growth above 3 percent. And a hit-and-run was also the personal income tax policy that the MSZP was doing at the time, because by making the low income tax 0 percent, it did not allow them to take advantage of the family tax relief. Now, the impact of the tax law increases the real income annually, for the real wages of families, especially for families with children, as the tax relief rate has increased significantly here, and in four years the two children's will rise from HUF 20,000 a month to HUF 40,000. And it is also important to estimate a 1% reduction in personal income tax, because at last we are not talking about how public burdens should be increased, what new taxes should be introduced, but we can say that at last the tax law establishing the budget submitted this year does not contain any increase in public burdens, nor does it contain any new taxes. On the other hand, the budget for the tax reduction, the tax law of the tax reduction, has been submitted to the Parliament. I think that what you have demanded, the VAT reduction on basic foods, is also happening in the budget, since the VAT on pigmeat will be reduced from 27 percent to 5 percent by this tax law. It is clear that the country has moved forward. Economic performances make it possible to reduce taxes, which will benefit all Hungarians, and I think it is noticeable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, Member of the Parliament, Jobbik, asked for a pre-meeting speech. Oh, my God, you're the winner. It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán did nothing but make a speech in the autumn by admitting the top-mandated public procurement. With regard to the distribution of large-scale, many cases of billion-dollar businesses, he acknowledged, in essence, what everyone in the country knows today, namely that they did not act according to the relevant laws when granting state orders, but that they decided according to the Prime Minister's wishes. The explanation that he wanted to put Hungarian businesses in the position is simple deception, in fact, the orders that squandered public funds in many cases were decided on the basis of my brother's relations. It can also be seen from the fact that for four years he has been excellent for all kinds of greasy orders as a symbol of the corrupt system, but today there are other winds, more pals, and now those pockets have to be lined up, right now the pockets of Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. In 2010, when Fidesz came into government with two thirds, he won this with the password of the change of regime, the real change of regime, and the revolution, and this reflected a social need that he really wanted to deal with the system of mosques, background deals, cartels that had been going on for two decades. Compared to that, we haven't seen a week in the last five years without news of the corruption scandals around Fidesz. The Prime Minister basically did nothing but accuse himself of committing a crime in front of the world. This is the case, even if, at the end of the day, by recognizing the overwhelming weight of the speech, they try to dampen its edge, try to adjust what has been said in such a way that decisions have been taken not in relation to public procurement, but in relation to some of the EU's proposals. This is where I draw attention to the fact that this tactic will not lead to purpose, because it was the Jobbik that exposed the illegal offshore subsidies of over 30 billion dollars. If, therefore, the Prime Minister claims that these decisions were made by him or his narrower staff, then all he would say is that he wanted to put in place organisations with unknown owners listed in Cyprus, the Marshall Islands, Gibraltar, the British Virgin and Coral Islands and other exotic countries. Once you have seen that this direction is a dead end, since the State Secretarys responsible for development policy, the President of the NFÜ, and then the Minister for National Development have been removed. The current scandal is already another dimension, because it is not the Prime Minister or his narrower environment that has defined the development directions, the projects receiving support, but the decision at the level of the Prime Minister to decide which developers can carry out the investments. This was quite obvious from what was said by the US Ambassador, because she specifically spoke about road construction and the widespread public-public public scandal, because, as we know, the Public Machine has actually achieved its dubious success in public procurement and works. It has not been six months since Viktor Orbán here in front of the public of this House said the following in connection with the affair between the US advocacy officer and the president of the NAV, Ildikó Vida:, There is a statement, the US agent claims that there has been a personal corruption involvement. In fact, the agent claims that the president of the NAV committed corruption in person. This statement can be interpreted by the Hungarian legal system and a lawsuit should therefore be brought. That is the expectation of the president of the NAV. If you don't sue the U.S. Attorney General immediately, I will relieve you. And now there's another spookyly similar statement. The former U.S. Ambassador, referring to a former government minister, claims that there was a personal corruption involvement. In fact, the former ambassador claims that the Prime Minister personally committed corruption. This claim can be interpreted by the Hungarian legal system and therefore a lawsuit must be brought. This is the expectation of Hungary's Prime Minister. If you do not sue the U.S. Ambassador immediately, then feel that you are also in control of what you have said to the president of the NAV and feel obliged to give up your office. And I'd like to continue with the quote from the Prime Minister for one more sentence. If anyone is proven to be involved in a corruption crime, that person will not be replaced in Hungary, but closed down. The Hungarian legal system is clear here too, so the stakes are high. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The stakes are indeed great: after 25 years, cleaning public life can no longer be delayed. The task of a Prime Minister would be to do so under the circumstances today, but there are indications that Mr. Prime ministers of the parties of the century, including the MSZP and Fidesz, have not been able to meet this wide-ranging demand. It is certain that once the country is truly and not only a national prime minister at word level, this change will definitely happen. Believe me, I will. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-10	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-19-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Hungarian political history, the career of Jobbik will certainly be a separate chapter or a separate item for political scientists, where even a half a year or a year ago, in addition to his claims to or beyond the limits of admissibility, he has now reached the point that a representative and US ambassador who left Hungary, let's face it, has left quite ignominiously, I do not know what events he considers his memoirs written as an authentic source of news. [[Adam Mirkóczki: No, all the stealing!]] By the way, this is left to your taste, to your taste, to your taste, to your judgment. What you're saying, however, allow me to add the facts, to put them in the wrong; I'm not going to contradict them, because what you're saying doesn't have to be argued against, it's simply not true. It's not a question of argument, it's a matter of fact. Allow me to inform the National Assembly and the public of why and how the National Development Government Committee was set up, why and how it is doing its work. It was necessary to set up a government committee in mid-2012 because the funds paid in the previous EU period were far below pro rata time and Hungary had a fundamental interest in speeding up EU payments. Therefore, in 2012, we set up the National Development Government Committee, which is a member of the Prime Minister, a member of the Minister for Economic Affairs, a member of the Prime Minister's Office, and a member of the Minister for Development. [[11.30]] It is not a secret, they usually meet in the form of separate Cabinets after government meetings, discussing and taking a position on very important written material. What are these? More important: proposals to be submitted to the Commission on the content of the operational programmes and their amendments; adoption of proposals for the major project to be submitted to the Commission; negotiation and adoption of individual development action plans and their amendments; decision to name priority projects; decision on project proposals with a support requirement of more than HUF 1 billion. The National Development Government Committee shall be responsible for establishing the procedures and organisational environment to be applied during the planning cycle for the period 2014-2020. Today, the decisions of the National Development Government Committee concern the investments that will be made in the present and in the future through the use of EU funds. Basically, its work has resulted in a decisive acceleration of payments over the last two years, and as a result, today, in May 2015 Hungary is recorded among the first players in the payment list. The Development Government Committee has never made a decision, has not made a decision, has not discussed the implementation. It's not your competence, it's not your competence, it's not your documentation. Allow me, as Deputy Minister, to personally testify that this has never been the case. It couldn't have been. The Development Government Committee decides on development directions, decides on development policy, on the need to implement developments over a billion, on the justification and on the pace of implementation, depending on the capacity of the budget. So what improvements can be planned in any way, and what would be good for the country, but the budget cannot. The National Development Government Committee has never taken a position, nor has it negotiated in public procurement cases, always carried out by the public bodies competent to carry it out or by approved institutions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-12	Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, Head of the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. More protection for families in debt. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2015-05-19-13	Mr President, Dear House, This week, the Christian Democratic Group will submit the Family Bankruptcy Act or, if anyone prefers this title, the bill on debt settlement for natural persons. Why is that necessary? We all know that the problem of our time is that not only the states but also the families are in debt, and in many cases it has led to their becoming unfit for payment. Of course, there are several reasons for this. On the one hand, the change in the financial situation and, on the other hand, in the case of financial institutions' appetite for profits and in the case of foreign exchange lenders, the exchange rate change. Of course, the breeding ground is certainly the consumer world that we all enjoy, but the disadvantage is that there is a consumption pressure. Family bankruptcy provides a second chance for those in need. We know that almost all European countries have introduced this institution decades ago. In the Hungarian legal system, this constitutes a coherent system of debt relief laws adopted so far, and we also know that there is only one purpose of this draft law: the restoration of solvency through which the debtor can repay his debt. The draft law went through a long process of reconciliation from the National Bank to the Banking Association to the experts of the various wallets. If you'll allow me, I'd like to say a few sentences about the benefit that this brings to those who are involved. Implementation will be suspended once it has started and no new implementation can be launched. Every creditor, since in most cases it is not a creditor, but more, can only enforce its claims under this procedure. This procedure contains a detailed payment moratorium. And most importantly, at the end of the five-year term, a serious amount may be released, except for the mortgaged property; in the other cases, this may go up to 60%. Of course, there is an obligation for the debtor to reveal his situation honestly and to cooperate disciplinefully with the other two contracting parties, the state and the financial institution. Let me mention some facts about the procedure. Only the debtor can initiate it, so it is a voluntary association, which means that neither the financial institution nor the State can initiate the procedure. There are conditions. What are these? The debt must be between HUF 2 and HUF 60 million. It's an overdebtedness, which also means that the wealth, which includes the five-year amount of repayment, is less than the debt, which may be between 100 and 200 percent. So we're talking about a heavily indebted debtor. It is also a necessary condition that the debt over HUF 500,000 has expired at least 90 days ago. Its introduction takes place at two paces. The first step is to take place this year, during the autumn, for those whose homes are at risk. The second step will take place next year, a year from now for those whose home is not yet in danger, but they already have a resigned contract or long overdue repayments. As I have said, three parties, the debtor, the credit institution and the State, have concluded contracts or judicial decisions; the State is represented by the family asset management service. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds.
u2015-05-19-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, Mr President, Dear House, We are talking about a proposal that is completely voluntary to anyone who is in a difficult situation. We are talking about a family protection proposal, which gives a second start, a start-up opportunity for everyone who is in a difficult situation. It's been a long time, we've been talking about it for about three years, whether here in Parliament or in public. This shows that this is a very complex proposal that has been preceded by as many preparations as in a few legislative proposals. This began at the waist of the previous cycle. Mr Fraction Manager also referred to it, the National Bank, the Ministries, even when he had this task and not the National Bank, the Banking Association, various civil society organisations dealing with people in difficulty, and many experts and expert institutions received these plans, he expressed his opinion, and finally, the KDNP proposal was put into final shape by the Ministry of Justice at the end of the discussions there. A sample of eleven European countries has already been an example of this proposal. We can say that, obviously, a proposal closer to the continental model will be placed on Parliament's table within days, but it cannot be associated with any of the countries, the French or German model, although it is closer to them. [[11.40]] At the same time, attention had to be paid, especially in the timing of the introduction, to the fact that Hungary has a special debt structure. The foreign exchange authentic rescue packages of recent years have already eliminated the threat of exchange rate fluctuations as a remedy to the foreign exchange credit problem. Therefore, the debtors will no longer have to face this. However, there are still families who, although they can pay some of their debts, because they have income, they have some wealth, but their debts have increased to such an extent that they could not pay this kind of repayment. They are the target audience, they are the circle that can really be helped by family bankruptcy, who themselves have the power to repay the loan, but not as much as creditors, utility companies, telephone companies, banks, commodity lenders demand of them overall. The example of eleven countries shows how an arrangement can be created that benefits both debtors and creditors; a situation where no one pays for it, but everyone benefits from the fact that the parties go through this procedure. It is important that it is voluntary to participate in the proceedings, so the debtor himself can decide whether to request an examination of whether he can enter the system, decide to proceed with this at the negotiated stage of proceedings and then proceed to court. After that, if the agreement has been reached, it has been concluded between the parties, or with the court's decision out of court, it will record the judgment, but then it will be binding on everyone, and this must be implemented. In connection with the introduction, Mr. Group leader also pointed out that precisely in order to ensure that the burden of the case is more proportionate in the courts, this bill can help those in the most critical situation at the first stage, those who have already terminated their mortgage contracts, live in a property that is their only real estate, they themselves are included, their relatives, their family members who are not able to support themselves live in this property, and the danger of implementation is already there, since even after the terminated contract, one of the preparatory acts of the enforcement procedure has started, but the property has not yet been auctioned or sold. They are the ones who can register for this protection during the first period, and when this period is over, then the possibility of family bankruptcy will open up to everyone else. But it is important that those who are in the most difficult situation should be the first to be dealt with by the state offices, the main creditors in the negotiated procedure, and then ultimately the courts can deal with and help them. As has already been said, the procedure can be divided into three stages. The first is the examination of the entry criterion. It is important to examine the double-indebtedness limit, which Mr. Group Leader has explained in detail and that no one is using this option to abuse, but to really help those who themselves are trying to get out of this problem, but their strength is exceeded by the repayment. This is followed by the negotiation phase, which takes place somewhat outside the courts and the public administration; then the court phase, if this is not effective. In order for everyone to be serious enough to do this, it is obvious that the obligation to tell the truth is repeatedly supported in the course of the procedure, since those who make false claims and thereby deceive the parties to the negotiations can continue to take coercion measures or create a private failure to do so to those who significantly deceive the parties. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-16	Dear Parliament, Pál Völner, Member of the European Parliament, Fidesz:. The budget for the tax reduction will further reduce the burden on Hungarian families. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, crisis management in the Hungarian economy has been completed, stabilisation has been achieved and we have been able to start with stable growth. In order to achieve our common objectives and to ensure economic convergence, economic growth above the EU average is necessary. For economic growth and job creation, we need to use the budget's extra resources and the EU's resources. The budget for the tax reduction is the most important pillar of the creation of civil Hungary. It is pleased that the government remains committed to maintaining financial stability and encouraging economic growth. The 2016 budget calculates an economic growth of 2.5 per cent and a budget deficit of 2 per cent. The objective remains to further reduce public debt and the sovereign debt ratio is expected to fall to 73,3% of GDP. With debt cuts, the budget leaves more money to the population in next year's budget bill, but on the expenditure side there is also more funding for a number of areas. In 2016, the reduction of personal income tax represents an increase in income for four million working Hungarians. The rate of personal income tax will decrease next year and the amount of family tax relief will increase for families with two children. As a result, HUF 145 billion remains with Hungarian families. In the end, families with two children with average incomes will have a higher income of HUF 116 thousand next year. Wedding tax relief will continue next year and more families will be affected; we will continue with the ged extra, because it has proved that it encourages childbearing and the employment of mothers with small children. The government has decided that, first of all, the VAT on pigmeat will be reduced so that more money can be left for families. The government's goal is to avoid starving children in Hungary. Therefore, the free children's meal programme will continue. The central budget contributes an increasing amount to children's meals, so next year these benefits will be supported by more than HUF 70 billion. Daycare for children is particularly important for disadvantaged families. The introduction of a free textbook service with an advanced system, which was launched earlier, will continue next year. In 2016, more students from the fourth grade will receive textbooks free of charge. The Government undertakes to retain the value of older benefits in 2016. Accordingly, pensions and pension benefits will increase at the rate of inflation. The burden of older people is also mitigated by the reduction of overhead costs, the results of which will be retained by the government through the national utility system. In addition to a number of other measures taken for the elderly, the government will continue the 40" programme for women, which will allow women with 40 years of work to retire. The budget for next year is therefore rightly called the budget for the tax reduction, which can significantly reduce the burden on Hungarian families. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2015-05-19-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Indeed, as you have pointed out, the debate on the budget bill and the tax bill will begin in Parliament next week, and its general debate will be over. The adoption of the budget and tax laws in the first half of the year is not entirely novel in the life of Parliament, since the proposal for this, at least a proposal for a two-year budget, has already been made before Parliament, but the adoption of both laws so early is indeed a security, predictability and stability for the Hungarian economy, for the Hungarian people. After all, with the adoption in June and the announcement in July, you have six months to see what happens in finance, economic policy, the budget, what you can expect in the coming year. The proposals you have listed, which both improve the situation of families, are indeed part of the budget and part of it can be found in the tax laws. But in fact, I think we need to think about how the country got here in the last five years from 2010, because we remember the situation in 2010, when we talked about a financially, economically fragmented country, a growing unemployment, rising public debt, and the lack of a government deficit, at that time Hungary was also mentioned together with Greece. [[11.50]] Today, we must say, five years later, when preparing the budget, that the country is on a lasting, predictable, stable growth path that is at the forefront of the European Union. Hungary is now recognised at all levels for its economic performance. This performance allows us to provide more of these central revenues and tax revenues to Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses. The primary aspect of the government has always been to help families with children. Obviously, both the budget and tax laws apply this aspect by reducing the tax burden. But there are also three other taxes. On the one hand, as regards basic foodstuffs, the VAT rate is reduced for pigmeat, but it should be mentioned that the rate of trade tax for local taxes will be reduced for general practitioners. This should be adopted by the local authorities in a regulation and can enter into force as of 1 January next year, the essence of which is that there is no need for general practitioners to pay business tax to the local government, provided that this is stated in the local government regulation. This can mean more than 6,300 doctors, and the rate per doctor per entrepreneur can reach 200,000 forints. It can be said, of course, that it is symbolic, but I think it is a reduction in the burden, yet a certain amount of money will remain for the general practitioners to finance the costs of the medical office. It is also important to emphasise that we have finally reached what the European Union has long been waiting for us to do to reduce the rate of bank tax. The aim of this is to enable commercial banks to increase their lending activity and finance the Hungarian economy. It's a very important step, a step promised by the government. I think that this is also a sign of stability, predictability, showing the financial sector, the benefits of which will, of course, be enjoyed by the Hungarian population. Overall, we are making some progress in all areas in the fiscal and tax laws. It is also very important to say here that we have submitted the shortest tax law for the last ten years to Parliament, on the table of Parliament, which does not contain [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The new tax package contains only tax reductions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative László Varju, independent; Member of Mr László György Lukács, Mr Jobbik; representative Tibor Bana, Mr Jobbik; Member Balázs Ander, Mr Jobbik; Member Bernadett Szél, LMP; Member of Mr R. Benedek Sallai, Mr LMP; Member of Mr Sándor Bodó, Mr Fidesz; Member of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Member of István Ikotity, LMP; Member of Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik; Member of László Teleki, MSZP; Member of Dániel Z. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:53 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: å Why do they ruin everything that worked well? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The destruction that the government has done in recent years on the domestic waste management system seems to be increasingly fatal. In the near future, the bad picture of Neapolitan conditions on the streets of the home settlements can really become reality. The problem is, as long as the local mob in Naples keeps the public waste on the streets because of the government's fault in our country. In recent years we have warned the government that the direction is wrong, it is now clear and clear: the current situation of the domestic waste management system is tragic and unsustainable, so that, according to the latest news, it is expected that many public service providers will no longer be able to transport public waste within weeks. To put it simply, there may be an emergency in the field of waste processing in the country. The government is currently trying to protect disaster instead of solving the situation, but it turns out that they are not given any extra resources to do so. Disaster management is already facing liquidity problems, so they are constantly asking for a reschedule of the claims against them, meaning that disaster management has no money anymore, and they have no professionals or assets to organise, for example, the regular shipments of 300,000 people in Pest County. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what they intend to do to solve the problem. Will you finally hear the proposals of nonprofit professionals to re-establish a sustainable system that used to work? When would you like to submit the amendment? We will now present a proposal for a resolution to encourage you to solve the problem, in case you hear the words of people and the profession, not just your politics. Thank you.
u2015-05-19-22	Thank you very much. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh responds. Here.
u2015-05-19-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In fact, companies providing public services today face a number of challenges, as we need to meet both cheap, modern and EU commitments at the same time. However, I must say that the waste is being removed from all settlements, there is no abandoned settlement in Hungary. Currently, long-term construction in the public service is under way, one of the significant results of which is that this activity is now carried out exclusively by non-profit companies with domestic, state and municipal majority ownership. The municipalities you mentioned in your letter belong to a public service. The Green Bridge Region Nonprofit Kft. is one of the few public service providers that has incurred a levy on waste disposal of more than HUF 100 million in 2014. As you know, in order to maintain the public service safely and to ensure the stability of the financial situation of public service providers, the Ministry of Agriculture has made it possible to submit an individual application. It has a budget of 7.1 billion forints. So far, 65 individual applications have been received with a request of HUF 6 billion. It can therefore be seen that the government is also doing its job in this transitional state, because if the municipality is unable to sign with a service provider, the public service in the area concerned is provided by the designation of an appropriate public service provider by the disaster management authority, for which there is also a source. It also shows that the government is not insensitive to the problems of public service providers, all the more so because they are public property, but are more sensitive to residential expectations. This period may be full of problems for public services [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But it's a good situation for people, because they haven't been upped in three years, and they're getting an increasingly modern service cheaply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-19-24	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: what is to be expected of the promised Iron County Developments? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-05-19-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said this last summer: "It's a beautiful and famous city, if you can't get around here. During my recent visit, I really understood and accepted the argument made by MEP Zsolt V. Németh and Mayor István Bebes that it is as important to build the four-track road towards the border as it is to Budapest. I understand your arguments, and I see that in the next year or two we really need to start the work that will make it possible for the road to avoid the city to be built, and then to get to the Austrian-Hungarian border on a four-track road, while construction of the section to Budapest is also taking place. We are working to bring this part of the country into the European bloodstream in two directions, both in the Hungarian direction and in the Austrian direction. There's not a single kilometer of highways in Vas County, and as it stands, there won't be any near future. Of course, I welcome the development of the section of the M86 road between Csorna and Szombathely, but other important promises have also been made that I would like to remind you of. One is the four-banding of Route 8 within a few years and the other is the development of Route 86 in the southwest direction from Szombathely. It is not negligible that after the M1 motorway, road 86 is the biggest truck traffic in our country. [[12.00]] In order to improve road safety and prevent accidents, it would be essential to develop the substantial section of road 86 from the Vas county seat to the Slovenian border. In response to my written question at the beginning of the year, it was said that if funds were available, the construction could start in 2016. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's promises regarding the start of work within a year or two, I am asking what is to be expected about the development of Route 8 in Vas County, especially in the Szentgotthárd-jakabházi and Körmend bypassing phase. What can we expect from the southwest of Szombathely, which is also the promised development of road 86 for the near future? Do they keep their word? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-26	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds.
u2015-05-19-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the same subject, you asked this question already in February, since then a welcome change has taken place between you and the country in the Körmend-East and the border section of the M8 highway: instead of two single-band implementations to be further developed, the decision has been made to build the project at one pace, two-tracks. The financing of this is planned using the recently announced EU economic recovery package, the European Strategic Investment Fund. The M8 case goes back 10 to 12 years because of the promise of previous governments, but now it will happen. At the same time, the implementation of the planned developments is adversely affected by the significant work done by previous governments in a so-called PPP structure, with over HUF 100 billion a year to be paid for, and by 2037 more than two thirds of the toll revenues. At present, Parliament has a bill to facilitate faster implementation of infrastructure development, and we can make investments faster if you will support it. As far as the county of Vas is concerned, the development of Highway 86 is a priority, and we keep it on the agenda. Reinforcing 11.5 tonnes of the Zala county section was completed in 2011. Zalalövő-Nádasd bypass sections are also being built and the section between the border-Körmend of Zala county is being built. The gradual construction of the M9 was also highlighted, and the government decision of April this year also provides for the launch of the design of the Vasvár-Zalaegerszeg motorway section. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question, "When does the government plan to put public transport in a reduced VAT base?" It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-05-19-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Practically in today's rural development arrangement, as well as in the setting-up of the capital, public transport plays an increasingly important role in going to work, since unfortunately most people do not find work in the immediate vicinity of their place of residence. Accordingly, the need for public transport and the related tasks are increasingly incumbent on the government. Just as centralisation, district offices and ensuring the quality of health care would also require improvements in public transport and the conditions for public transport. Compared to the average incomes of Western European countries in Hungary, public transport prices are very high, and this makes it very difficult to make use of them the most widely. My question is clearly about whether there is a chance of making these public transport prices cheaper at some level, making them more accessible and, as far as possible, providing access to them as wide as possible. My question is whether the government is planning to facilitate the use of public transport and public transport in connection with the VAT reduction. If so, when and how can this happen; if not, the question is why this cannot happen. The question is also whether, for example, there would be no way of amending the rules on cafeteria in such a way that public transport leases would be included in tax-free benefits and that there would be an opportunity for workers to make use of them. If you see this opportunity, when do you see that it can happen? And if you don't, I'd also like to know why this doesn't happen. And I'm obviously wondering if the government is planning to change the system of public transport discounts. This would make a very large contribution to helping people as widely as possible, with better, better public transport and community transport services and access to them. I'd like an answer to that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-19-30	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds.
u2015-05-19-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I see that the LMP is also unconscious, and that the VAT-reducing, tax-reducing competition is starting to get him involved. But what would it look like if you said the basic food tax, like the other two opposition parties? Obviously, we had to figure out a way to do something nice and good. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: You were able to sign...]] They can tell people. Before answering the question, of course, I must say that the price of public transport increased by 140 percent between 2002 and 10. Following the change in government prices in 2010, the government did not enforce the 15 percent increase in consumption prices in these public transport prices, but made public transport cheaper and cost-effective by other means. And I have to tell you, in the cafeteria, you can still use a tax to pay employers their employees' local transport pass. In addition, about 7 million people are affected by the various benefits that employers can provide for rents on public transport. The government's tax policy is clear: therefore, the objective is to reduce income tax, including personal income tax, so that they can stay more than their families, so that they can spend more, buy and satisfy their needs. But it is also included in the current budget or in the tax bill to reduce the VAT on basic foods. So that's the way the government started. What I can tell you is that first, the personal income tax reduction, second, the reduction of VAT on basic foods, and then what you're asking is the reduction of VAT on public transport. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Roland Mengyi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question about the construction of Hungary's third largest steelworks in Miskolc. How does this help the Hungarian industry to recover? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, more and more people have been talking about the ongoing negotiations on the resurrection of the walnut-győr metallurgy, which was founded in 1770. Although after the factory was closed in 2009, it was a rough road to restart production, the dream came true, if not in the old place, but a few hundred meters away. To do this, one of Europe's most modern compact steel works will be built in the Diósgyőr Industrial Park. The investment will be the third largest steel plant in the country, consisting of a steel plant using energy-saving waste preheating technology and an organically matched mill. In Diósgyőr they will use modern machines and technology based on existing tradition and knowledge, combined with Hungarian expertise. There were 240 years of metallurgy in Diósgyőr, and when the steelworks closed in 2009, it was not known whether this sad situation would be temporary or permanent, but fortunately now we do not have to think about it. The development is likely to attract further investment, and the world-class raw material produced in the planned steel works can bring automotive and other innovative businesses into the region. The investment costs EUR 55-60 million. The work will begin in these weeks. The product structure of the steelworks will consist predominantly of high-quality alloy products, mainly for steel manufacturers and suppliers in the automotive, automotive, oil and gas industries. It is planned to trigger some 120 to 150 thousand tonnes of imports per year. Besides the modernity of the plant, it will also ensure the livelihood of 320 professionals and the maintenance and maintenance of professional culture in Miskolc. In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: how does the steelworks in Miskolc help the Hungarian industry to recover? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-34	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Szabó responds.
u2015-05-19-35	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to talk about such successes, and that we can say for the first time since 2009 in Diósgyőr that a very serious investment is taking place. The fact that Henrik Fazola founded the steel production in Diósgyőr 245 years ago is a huge achievement in itself; it was able to work continuously until 2009. [[12.10]] However, this also means that there is such a great deal of skilled labour available here in North-East Hungary, Miskolc, Diósgyőr and its surroundings that it is a sin not to take advantage of it. It is true that from the English term, the name of this steel work was translated, but it is a very serious steel work. This name applies to compact technologies, but Hungary's third largest steelworks will soon be produced, which can produce hundreds of tons of exported steel products and products manufactured in rolling mills. What is very good news is that we can stop importing about 120 million tonnes of waste steel by using the Hungarian waste steel and creating high-quality alloy products. What is even more news for us is that during the construction process, around 700 jobs will be created by this project, and then directly about 500 jobs will be created, and based on the estimates of the owners, our discussions have shown that this will create over a thousand indirect jobs in the area. So this is very good news for Diósgyőr, and I trust that the previous Bosch investment, for example, or because of the Takata investment, which is already there in Miskolc, will be used by more automotive companies. In the case of quality steel products, it is very important that: [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How close the production is. Because it will be close, the distance will be small, we will probably be able to meet this quality demand cost-effectively for other companies around Miskolc. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-36	With all due respect, I'd like you all to respect the time frame of the house. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Who will be next? Would I banish the name of Miklós Radnóti or Attila József in institutional names? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-19-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The title is no coincidence, Mr President, because we see that the Ministry is so involved in the process of renaming the institution that it doesn't really matter who it is in Hungarian history - whether it is a writer, a poet or a ethnographer - and it doesn't matter what performance it has, it doesn't matter if it's a false crime: if it happens that person doesn't fit into the Ministry's values, then it is immediately removed from today's institutional names. After Endre Ságvári in Szeged, here is the next pleading guilty man, Gyula Ortutay. Gyula Ortutay is a ethnographer whose name is borne by the dormitory in Szeged. By the way, in connection with the great institutional nationalization, your minister has named it permanently so, so it is incomprehensible to me what happened, why the Ministry once again refers to the legal background, the legislative environment, that Gyula Ortutay's name does not comply with the legal requirements. By the way, in the resolution of the Academy of Sciences on Gyula Ortutay, there are no references to an authoritarian political system at all, there are only biographical data, so there is no question at all as to what KLIK and the EMMI base their opinion on the fact that the name of the Gyula Szegedi Ortutay City College does not comply with the relevant legislation. Dear Secretary of State, I respectfully ask you that you really have nothing better to do in the fields of health care, the social sector, education and higher education than to treat and shock the public with continuous institutional renaming. I respectfully ask why you want to rename an institution by force again, which you are not obliged to do by law. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-19-38	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2015-05-19-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know very well, Mr President, that this is a consultation procedure. In any case, if the KLIK intends to undertake any transformation of any institution as a maintenance institution, it will have to hold such a consultation before it, and at the end of May it will be able to decide on any matter. As every previous year, decisions on the restructuring and renaming of schools were taken at the end of May, this year will be no different, this is the case, according to the legal order, every year, so that everyone can see exactly what new legal situation they should be in for the next academic year. Here, too, the KLIK sent out a prior consultation letter, the answers will be received, and it is clear that any decision can be made later. This is KLIK at 20/2012. He also referred to an EMMI regulation, in addition to those listed by you, according to which the name, landscape name, geographical name, town name, name of public area, maintenance name, fairy tale, mythological character, name of literary figure, expression or acronym may be given. This is a requirement that the CLIK would obviously like to meet here as well. I believe that in the Ságvári case, seven or eight organisations have been revealed in recent weeks, civil society organisations that unite the victims of communism, and have asked that, if there is one way to do it, Endre Ságvári's name should not be an example or even more acutely expressed: it is unacceptable that 25 years after the change of regime, this is still the case. In the case of Gyula Ortutay, the activity is at least contradictory, because it is known that it served different systems, served at least three systems, and many say that it was also a master of the position. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In this regard, the procedure will take place there, and then any decision can be made. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-40	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Who is responsible for ignoring the nurses? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'm going to give you a summary of several nurses' medical records. The number of patients per capita is usually above 15 people, many of whom are also subject to severe, subintensive, post-operative observation. They have to run around all day to take care of all patients and to do administration. There is also a risk of error in the rush because they work 12 hours a day, so they are exhausted. And here comes the shock: they say in a consistent way that they can often not even meet their basic needs. For example, a 34 - year - old working nurse receives a net of HUF 110,000, so they often have to take a second job, which makes them tired of starting the next 12 hours of nursing. [[Mr. Schmuck replaced Ms. Erzsébet in the notary seat as Loránt Hegedűs.]] I would like to quote a nurse literally: I get up at 3:30 and get home at 7:30. Eighty-six percent of my entry is paid by the employer, but it has to be prefinanced from its own budget, and I'll get it after weeks. The employer would be obliged to provide protective clothing for the nurse working by the bed. Compared to this, most of us work in Chinese T-shirts and tuxedos because we haven't had protective clothing or safety shoes in years. We haven't received any awards for a very long time, no Semmelweis reward, no 13th month's salary, no Széchenyi card, no cafeteria, no recreational leave. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State why it was necessary to destroy and eviscerate such important, respectable people. What, and especially who, is responsible for allowing patients to lower their care to a life-threatening level? Please report to the Secretary of State on the measures you and your office have taken since they entered the government to bring this shameful situation to an end. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-42	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2015-05-19-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, How this condition developed 20 years before the change of regime - indeed people who do a lot of superhuman work, but I'm sure everyone who works as a nurse in hospitals has a testy job - would certainly be worth a longer conversation. But I would like to give you some more important details about what happened since 2010 and not in a negative direction, as before - for example, taking the 13th month's wage, which meant a general 8 percent salary reduction for the nurses - but rather trying to influence their situation in a more positive direction, although we know that the salary they are receiving is still far from the salary they deserve, but still more than four or five years ago. The most important thing is that we spend 76 billion forints more on the wages of health care workers, since in 2012-13 95 thousand health workers, 75,000 of whom you are concerned, managed to raise your salary by about 23-24 percent; this is how they take more home now, almost a quarter more home on average than four or five years ago. In addition, in 2011 we were able to offer a one-off allowance corresponding to the three-month amount of the extra salary to those working in a job with higher workload. [[12.20]] You may also know that, following the government's decision, the budget for 2016 includes an additional HUF 15 billion to increase the salary of 43,000 nurses and to increase the salary of 17,000 doctors. We have also launched a vocational training programme for those who have an old qualification before OKJ, and they can receive HUF 2.5 billion in support. We have made compulsory trainings free of charge, which is also half a billion HUF's of support, and I can add a few more measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: what guarantees the preservation of historical and cultural heritage should archaeological works be speeded up? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, I asked the question about the protection of natural and cultural heritage and its decline here in Parliament. The May Other, according to Politics, institutional and legislative changes in recent years have put the interests of large investors ahead of the cultural and heritage protection aspects. We have seen several examples of this recently, let us consider the case of the castle in Győr, where the cultural memorial site was destroyed, or the destruction of the sacral remains of the Dome Square in Szeged. The May Other is strongly protesting against the bill on speeding up priority transport investments before Parliament, which would further weaken cultural and heritage protection aspects. Last time we talked about whether the amendment could destroy or cover some of the country's archaeological heritage, the Ministry of National Development apologized in a communication; the only argument they had was to speed up archaeological work in addition to speeding up transport investments while guaranteeing the preservation of national historical and cultural heritage. The Possibly Other Politics shares the opinion of archaeologists and experts that these two together are impossible. They already don't give us enough time for archaeological exploration, like they did when they remodeled the Dome in Szeged. Being reduced from 30 days to 30 working days is completely absurd, and Sunday should also be for archaeologists. Dear Secretary of State, In the case of the acceleration of archaeological works, what guarantees the preservation of historical and cultural heritage? The Fundamental Law states, among other things, that, I quote, cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, the protection, maintenance and preservation of which for future generations is the duty of the state and everyone. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What short-term political interest justifies moving past heritage considerations? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2015-05-19-46	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds.
u2015-05-19-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, By building motorways up to national borders and turning cities with county-rights into motorways, we are completing transport improvements that have been lagging behind in recent years in order to strengthen social mobility and strengthen rural economic areas as well. The speeding up of transport developments is not driven by short-term political interest, but by the interests of the country and the inhabitants of the municipalities affected by the development. These investments will also determine the development opportunities and competitiveness of the regions for many years, between ten and twenty and thirty years. If we do not do this and do not do it by the deadline in the coming years, we may lose EU funds that we cannot replace. This would always be a historical sin, so we do not want to fall into this sin, we do everything we can to make the investments we have planned as quickly as possible. Also today, there are special rules on archaeology, which are naturally formulated and applied to preserve memories, so that they can do them with thorough work during the period of investment. In the proposal, these approaches and our obligations will be applied in the same way, and archaeological work processes will not cease, and no guarantees will be removed from the regulation. Moreover, there are rules that are currently in place that will be effective in helping to carry out archaeological work even in the case of investments of major importance. The government has prepared the proposal with the involvement of the field of archaeology and with the aim of allowing the archeological institution system to bear the additional burden of accelerated development processes and the possibility of involving resources for this work. I assure you, my dear Member, that speeding up archaeological works does not in any way jeopardise the preservation of our cultural values, which are also mentioned in the Fundamental Law. Believe me, we take care of our values. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Pál Völner, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. A hundred and fifty new filling stations. What is the future ahead of domestic electric transport? You have the floor.
u2015-05-19-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As previously said between the walls of the House, Hungary's aim is to acquire the leading role of the region in the field of electromobility. The government has already indicated at a number of points that it is an integral part of its policy of promoting electric transport. In February this year, the Exelon Technology Knowledge Centre took place in Szikszo. The industrial park became home to no smaller event than the inauguration of the first Hungarian electric vehicle's fast-charge station. The establishment of the centre is an excellent basis for focusing on domestic and foreign knowledge capital on renewable energy sources and electromobility and creating an intellectual workshop for innovation in the area. The production of vehicles in Hungary is now known to belong to the continental elite. This is similar in the case of domestic bus production. On 9 March, at the presentation of Evopro's Hungarian-made and developed electric buses, we also learned that Hungary is involved in the modernisation of public transport. The composite, nullemission bus family developed by Hungarian engineers will be suitable for the transport of 65 passengers, with a 57 percent Hungarian value ratio. The modernisation of the domestic transport culture is not possible without the proper infrastructure, therefore the government's measure to create 150 new electric charging stations in Hungary is crucial. The measure has an increased incentive effect on the reform of road and public transport, as it creates the conditions for electromobility in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, It is of particular importance that the government consciously anticipate the renewal of infrastructure in this area. The transformation requires a revision of the legislation in this area, creating the possibility of uploading and parking for electric vehicles. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what future domestic electric transport has ahead, what steps the government is planning to take to strengthen the area, whether the development of electric transport is in line with the Jedlik Ános programme. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-19-50	Thank you. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds.
u2015-05-19-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The government has indeed set the goal of introducing new energy-efficient technologies as much as possible. The production of electric vehicles, their components and components, and the activities related to batteries have significant added value in industrial development, thanks to their innovation value. Based on environmental considerations, the Jedlik Ányos Plan aims to support the deployment of electromobility by means of support for domestic R &amp; D, the creation of an infrastructure background and the promotion of related investments, as well as by incorporating incentives that can be achieved in the legal and tax environment. With the adoption of the Jedlik Plan and the implementation of the Jedlik Action Plan, our country can be one of the first EU Member States to have an electromobility strategy under the relevant EU Directive, which can be assessed as a major international success. Encouraging the spread of electromobility is therefore a priority government task. In implementing the Jedlik Action Plan, therefore, we must pay particular attention to the development of a supportive regulatory environment, so that we should also consider, among other things, the possibility of changing legislation on electricity relating to changes in the built environment. Amendments to indirect incentives legislation such as the right to use certain lanes or the introduction of parking preferences are currently being developed in the Ministry of National Development. These will be presented to the Honourable Parliament during the autumn session. I trust these will also facilitate the implementation of the Jedlik plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: the eyes of Sauron are already watching the public workers? It's an address. You have the floor. [[12.30]]
u2015-05-19-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The magical eyes of the Lord of the Rings begin to resemble everything that goes on in conjunction with the public employment. The city of Ozd can be an outstanding example in the coming period, where they want to monitor the public workers with cameras. Look, if their roots are common, Fidesz, Jobbik and the flag they're waving, then solutions should also be found together in these matters, and normal solutions. I would also like to say some as an indication, in which Mr Gábor Riz may be able to help the local forces. I would suggest to Jobbik that, say, in order to ensure health conditions for work, say, the public worker should have water in the summer, but perhaps also that in terms of the organisation of work, there should be someone to do the work, to follow it, to direct it, to be accountable. What I would like to suggest to Fidesz is that, first and foremost, the money stolen from the public employees, you know, in connection with the import of the HUF 47,000 public employment wage, what was before it, will be returned to the public employees. The other is, let's say, don't kick people out of the public sector and then hire them back as public workers for a meal. But there is a common ground for you, Fidesz-Jobs together. They could also, let's say, set up processes with value-creating activities as much as possible and provide the conditions adapted to the basis for a decent living. I'd like to ask you four simple questions. Please don't talk about anything else, answer the questions. Is it normal, is it good, is it appropriate to watch people with cameras instead of hiring work planners? In addition, do you want to ensure health conditions at work, guaranteeing this? They're going to be doing public jobs together with value creation, not like Gyöngyfa, for example? Last thing I want to know is when they're gonna give the stolen money back to the public. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-19-54	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here.
u2015-05-19-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The short answer to your question is that the municipality of Ozd has decided to purchase tools to monitor public workers, and the city of Ozd has financed this from its own general budget reserve. So he didn't apply for public employment or from the sources he received. [[Nándor Gúr: Whom will it touch?]] In the city of Ózd, there is at present a longer-term public employment programme, a national public employment programme, a district start-work model programme and a related training programme. The municipality has submitted applications for public works according to its own needs, and by launching value-creating public works programs, local government buildings, educational institutions are renovated, gardening works are carried out, plant gardening work is carried out from this year's year; in addition, from this year animal production, vine planting, open-air furniture production, arboretum, educational trail design, seedlings, ornamental plant gardening, they have been applied for this year. [[Nándor Gúr: Where's the money? Talk about that.]] So far, 1270 people have participated in the public works programme this year, and the amount of funds allocated or applied for this year is HUF 1 billion 112 million 708 thousand. We will, of course, monitor the fulfilment of the conditions that have been agreed in the contract for the public works programme. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr: When will you return the stolen money? That's what you're talking about.]]
u2015-05-19-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What is the value of Hungarian living in the agglomeration? How do you think the former Iron Minister, Gábor Baross, would feel about the slow train development that was produced on the Budapest-Esztergom line? It's an address. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Budapest-Esztergom line is MÁV's unelectricated single-track line No. 2, the use of trains from the settlements of the line is ensured by commuters to the workplaces and schools in Budapest, as well as by university students studying in Piliscsaba. One of the most important agglomeration settlements in the capital is located along the line. As the railway crosses several settlements involved in the development of suburbanisation in the northern Buda region and in the Pilisi Basin, and since the mid-1990s the population has grown rapidly in these settlements, it became necessary to build the railway line into a modern suburban railway. All those involved were pleased, but the renovation of the Hungarian railway development was not yet complete due to the 44.5 billion-dollar and electrification of the three-year period, but it became a veterinary horse of the Hungarian railway development, not so much. Rail will be the supposed great winner of the EU development cycle ahead. This is welcome, but due to the efficient use of resources in the interests of the Hungarian people, some questions need to be asked, even if everyone acknowledges the need to make sacrifices in order to improve, they must take on inconvenience. Why wasn't he personally responsible for the one-and-a-half-year delay? Who is responsible for the extra year-and-a-half extra hours of extra work for students, when they often had to travel 25 kilometers from Piliscsaba to Árpád bridge on train replacement buses without a seat and pressed like herring? Have they learned from traffic management anomalies? Why wasn't there an alternate bus service due to the disruptions and congestion on Highway 10? How will the third year be forced to repeat the Calvary of motorists and bus drivers in traffic jams elsewhere be avoided? Who is responsible for shutting down and breaking down the railway line while the new track was not owned by the railway? Who gave a building permit for a track on another plot? I look forward to your reply to these questions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-19-58	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds. Here.
u2015-05-19-59	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Dear President, thank you for the floor. After a year and a half of traffic restrictions on the Pilisvörösvár-Esztergom railway section, rail transport started in December 2013. The construction works involving traffic restrictions were then limited to the section between the northern railway station Danube-bridge-Pilisvörösvár, where rail passenger transport is planned to start at the start of the autumn school. The railway track is fully completed, the construction of the related roads will be completed this summer; the contractors are doing these works right now. In addition to road and artworks, the connection road, platform, platform and P+R parking are still under construction. In Pilisvörösvár, the new underpass is already used by road users. By the end of July, traffic on the Budapest side will indeed be on a temporary track. MÁV drives train replacement buses at the Solymár-Auchan roundabout to Solymár and Pilisszentivan and to separate Pilisszentiván. In addition, regular Volan flights remain. Indeed, several factors have hindered progress during the project. Mostly the expropriation procedures, because they lasted longer than expected, as you have already heard, there is such experience in other cases that some owners take advantage of the opportunity and drag away the possibilities of the procedure as long as possible. They would have a maximum of 60 days, but this could be delayed on average for 211 days with different related procedures, and in some cases it would take 420 days to get the area. That's the primary reason why our investments were delayed. In addition, we had extreme weather during the summer of 2013 because of the flood, and in July 2014 in September, there was record rainfall. This is why the support we expect from Jobbik is very important and necessary to support a proposal that would speed up, among other things, the expropriation process and have faster access to the areas of investment. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-19-60	Thank you very much, Mr Parliament. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "Why doesn't the government take action to protect the domestic water base?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér's Secretary of State will answer the question instead of Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is well known that due to the geographical situation of the country, we have a very rich water supply, and not only our fresh water supply, but also our mineral water supply is outstanding at European level. You may not have missed the fact that one of Hungary's most famous and international award-winning mineral water distributors, the Szentkirályi mineral water, has undergone a major transformation, and its significant property has been acquired by an Italian multinational company. I would like to say immediately at the outset that excessive extraction and the threat to the water base can also be achieved in the case of the Hungarian economy, but there is a much greater danger in our opinion if a large company, which is particularly capitalising, meeting international needs, has a focus on market trends and economics over our resources. [[12.40]] Unfortunately, we have the impression that Hungary's weakened and related official background is not able to prevent the exploitation of natural resources, and the sightings are very often late, and so we have a very strange situation, because the mineral water extracted in Hungary is being bottled by an Italian company and sold for money to Hungarian people. The Hungarian Constitution and the Fundamental Law ensure the fundamental right of natural resources for everyone, as well as the government has planned serious restrictions on access to agricultural land, so in our view it would be justified to take steps to protect the water base. The LMP would like to use the water frame in full so that the underground water base can only be created within legally defined limits, with the need to achieve the sustainable use of natural resources. My question to the government is whether there is any draft legislation, an idea of how it intends to protect the domestic mineral water base as a national value, what legal barriers it intends to create, and how this is possible for a wholly owned company abroad. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-05-19-62	Thank you very much. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás, please.
u2015-05-19-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There is no draft that would then want to regulate the issues raised by you, as legislation or law regulates all the moments relating to water management, and laws ensure and guarantee that only as much water can be produced in Hungary as its natural replacement and replacement has been solved. In English: the water balance must be positive. Today, we have legislation on this: we have two laws on water management, and we have laws on general rules for protecting the environment, but in addition, we have virtually the same and the same content as the European Parliament and Council directive, the Water Framework Directive. We can therefore say that it complies with European legislation at all points of the legislation on water management and ensures that the yield on water production should never exceed the yield on water supply. In fact, there is nothing concrete in your question, in addition to the fact that a foreign company bought the company you mentioned, it did not state any specifics about water resources management, nor does it mention excessive water extraction in the Káli Basin, which is not factually true, so water extraction is also carried out in accordance with the rules. Once again, you can only produce as much water as any provider can naturally produce. The fact that the LMP [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] you have a problem with ownership rights, I do not think it concerns the Water Framework Directive. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legány, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:, When will the M49 be ready? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-05-19-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the construction of the M49 motorway, I have already asked the Minister in writing two times. His answers showed that although they are aware of the situation on Highway 49 and understand the needs of the population, they consider the implementation of the M49 road to be an important task, but in the coming years it is not expected to be possible to build the bypass road. Unfortunately, this fact has been confirmed by the decision of the planning council and the consultation of the mayors with the designers. In reply to my first written question, Minister, he made the construction of the road dependent on the source of the European Union. We now know that, unfortunately, the M49 motorway was not included in the list of roads built from EU funds between 2013-2020. On 27 March 2015, on the basis of the untenable situation, the people living there drew attention to the importance of the bypass and the danger of the accident on Route 49, which, unfortunately, is confirmed by very sad statistics. On Route 49, eight people died within a year of the section between Győrtelek and Ököritófülpös, including the interior of the settlements. Despite the serious risk of accidents and the poor condition of the roads, these sections have been left out of the renovations of recent years. On 27 March 2015, József Halmi, mayor of the village of Győrtelek, presented a petition to Sándor Kovács, the Fidesz MP of the region, who promised to give the petition to the Minister. On that basis, I would ask the wallet, whether they have received the petition, whether they know the contents and the claims in it. I ask you, how many more tragedies are needed in order to achieve meaningful action on this side of the road? When is the construction of the M49 motorway expected to begin, and with what schedule will it be completed, and when will it be completed? And until the road is built, when are the crash nodes to be removed and the most dangerous stages to be renovated? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-19-66	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Tasó responds, please.
u2015-05-19-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You were right to say that the construction of the M49 motorway has not yet been named for the period 2014-2020. However, the construction of the motorway is included in the medium-term programmes by building it fully up to the border. The preparation is in progress at several stages. For the section between the motorway M3 and Ököritófülpös, we have the environmental permit, and due to the modification of the track, the preparation is also underway in this respect. However, despite all our efforts, no agreement has yet been reached with the Romanian party on the border crossing point of the expressway. This means that there is no precise track on the section between Ököritófülpös and the border, it cannot be fixed, so the preparation work for the construction is related to this and depends on it. One thing is certain: however, outside the EU funds, we will take care of the road network to do renovation work from domestic sources. For example, in 2013-14 a large surface hull repair was carried out in the Kocsord area at a length of 3900 metres, a length of 1800 metres between Jármi and Mátészalka and a length of 3400 metres between Ököritófülpös-Porcsalma. Following developments, the availability of settlements improved, travel times also decreased, and indeed the risk of accidents was partially eliminated. You're absolutely right, the construction of the M49 is a very important investment, the regionals are pushing it, believe me, we're working on it. By the way, Mr Kovács informs us of what he has said about your contribution, so we really know the ideas and needs of the people there, and we will indeed have the opportunity to transform the dangerous node and thus prevent accidents that could happen. So we're trying to build the M49 as soon as possible up to the border. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: When? When? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister the question, "Where is the limit of unreasonable waste?" It's an address. You have the floor, please.
u2015-05-19-69	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The M29 motorway section was planned to be two lanes twice, with a stop lane, nodes and separate level crossings. All of this was to be achieved from HUF 110 billion, i.e. about HUF 4 billion per kilometer. In my opinion, the specific cost of the M4 motorway per km cannot be considered irrational, said you, Minister, a year ago. In addition to the technical content outlined above, he explained, I quote, that we cannot ignore the fact that special earthwork costs HUF 28 billion. Obviously, the Great Hungarian Great Plain could have posed a major challenge to the motorway-building lobby, and this is reflected in the price-setting process, to which the government before the elections was particularly sensitive to empathy. Now, beyond the elections and beyond Simicska friendship, the government suddenly noticed the surprisingly high investment cost, and, as it turned out, it had its own decision to stop the work. The plans were rethought, and the new idea that was published last week would only result in a simple expressway with the level crossings of lower roads, without a stop bar and without resting places. Dear Minister, It has already cost the hardworking small people 60 billion forints in M4. Now, how many billion forints of public money will be consumed by the dismantling of semi-finished but unnecessary works of art by minimizing plans? Why is the technical content of the original plans being decommissioned and why is the price of 4 billion per kilometer not reduced to an acceptable level? And finally, why would they save on people's lives by abandoning the security features? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-70	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár will answer your question. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. [[12.50]]
u2015-05-19-71	Thank you very much. I would like to make it clear to the record that this is not about the M29 motorway, as you asked, as you said, but about the M4 motorway. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: I said M4.]] You said M29, but we're not gonna get into a fight on this one, we understand what the question is. With regard to your comment, allow me to recommend to you the decisions made by the government on this matter. As long as the European Commission has not made three accusations, the government has stuck to the programme. These three accusations, on the one hand, are an OLAF investigation, which is the European Commission's Anti-Fraud Office, and we hope, at some point, that it will be made public what OLAF is likely to do with this investment, and, on the other hand, the price per kilometer on which the government has been debating and trying to protect investment, as my words have shown, and the third is that the European Commission has constantly questioned the implementation of this investment, particularly in the east of Szolnok. The Hungarian government's position is clear. We would like to do two things in Szolnok County, on the one hand linking the city of Szolnok to one of the number one motorways, either directly with the capital, or with the M5, on the other hand we would like to connect the less well-placed regions of Szolnok County and the eastern part with the city of Szolnok. To this end, this programme will be closed, given that the European Commission does not provide budget coverage, there is no funding for it in the Hungarian budget, as it appears from the submitted material. We will issue a new public procurement, the new public procurement concerns reduced prices and reduced technical content, which should not naturally affect the safety conditions for four-track transport. First, in 2016-17-18 we will build the section linking the Szolnok to the capital, and we will begin to complete the phase east of Szolnok. The mayor will discuss this with the Prime Minister at the beginning of June. The Prime Minister will meet with the Mayor of Szolnok County City in Szolnok, as well as the MPs of Szolnok County. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-72	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Do you take the students' comments into account? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-05-19-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, the records of the Student Parliament were published, which were prepared towards the end of the last year. We have heard the complaints made there. A number of problems are listed in these protocols, as well as what has been said there, and asked for the assistance of EMMI's and CLIK's seconded authorities. Everyday problems listed by students give an accurate insight into the state of Hungarian public education. In 2015, among other things, students are extremely overwhelmed, they regularly have eight hours in high school, they arrive home at the earliest in the late afternoon. In spite of the introduction of compulsory day care in primary schools, schools are unable to offer colorful and attractive programs to students who are bored by 4:00 p.m. or at most do homework, which they could do at home under more comfortable conditions. Students' comments confirm LMP's previous criticism of mandatory state daycare. The mandatory day care conditions have not been created to this day. In the absence of a gym and a locker room, the school has introduced theoretical physical education, i.e. studying sports history and sports rules, or watching sports broadcasts on television. There's nothing wrong with that, but it doesn't accomplish the goal you set, the everyday physical education. Although the situation improved after the schoolbook scandal of the previous school year, there are still a significant number of textbooks that do not arrive at school, causing disruptions in teaching. In many places, there is no money to buy paper or photocopy, students take the A4 papers themselves to write the paper. And then we didn't even talk about problems with no toilet paper and soap in the bathrooms. Dear Secretary of State, The LMP finds it disappointing that in 2015 students, teachers, parents will have to face such problems. Are these comments taken into account? Will a plan of measures be drawn up to solve the problems? I look forward to your reply.
u2015-05-19-74	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2015-05-19-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The choice of topic also shows a certain delay in the phase of the LMP. These events take place entirely in the press, the Student Parliament meets in the Upper House Hall, everyone can come in, the press staff are there, and there will be a broadcast on this. Obviously, these questions could have been asked in November and December last year, right after they were said here by the students. But I see when the LMP brings it up, it's not the reality or the specific experiences that determine it, it's just when a topic appears in the Internet press. That's why six months in the middle of it doesn't even occur to the LMP. Although these were proposals made months ago, topics discussed months ago, but since they have just been read on the Internet in headlines, they believed that this has just happened and is now relevant. It also shows that the LMP could be a little closer to reality. As far as the meeting itself is concerned, if the LMP had participated or read the reports, it would know that, following previous student-free proposals, we had prepared a small booklet for students. The answers to their previous recommendations, their previous proposals, were sufficiently detailed in this publication, so each student could receive the answer to his proposals in previous years. And, in the case at hand, there was obviously legislation that changed in the same direction as the students in the National Student Parlament in 2011, and we tried to make these decisions in that direction. There were special votes there, for example President Fat had the people there voted on how many people liked egg soup in connection with the school meal. So I suggest you come, there are interesting elements to this. As for the afternoon occupations in the Public Education Act, which last until 16:00: on the one hand, it belongs to the autonomy of the institution, how it integrates it into its own programme, on the other hand, its own purpose, the government's aim was to provide such an opportunity to those who cannot afford the afternoon occupations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: at least something happened on the Scented Road, but what about the Cséry site? It's an address. You have the floor, please.
u2015-05-19-77	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Scented chemical pollution is a major risk factor in the capital, the condition of the colony could endanger the water supply of the entire South-Pest region, so that more than half a million people, including the agglomeration, can endanger the health of 1 million people. Although the Scented travel situation has eased somewhat at the pressure of the public, at least something has finally begun better later than never on a basis, there is another very harsh pollution in Budapest, which is at least such a risk. Pestszentlőrincen has been one of the most serious deliberate environmental degradations in the last 20 years. Since 2011, at least 8,000 tonnes of sewage sludge and toxic chemicals have been poured into the 40 hectares soil of the Cséry site. For three years, dozens of trucks poured chemicals that were extremely harmful to health directly into the ground trenches. By doing so, they poisoned the soil water very harshly, endangering the wells and wells of the local people. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: Circuit soil water and environment are being investigated for several years, but we still don't know who benefited from the mud mafia, and we don't know who the customers were. From the transportation of oily sludge, the Budapest CEOs appointed by Fidesz were able to account for 500-600 million HUF in three years. We don't even know the exact amount, because the receipts are incomplete, partly missing, which raises questions for a public company. On top of that, the capital company, i.e. the taxpayers in Budapest, also fell from the incomes of the unfinished work, and in 2012 the discharge business in connection with the Cséry site officially ended with a loss of 22 million, at least on the public register side. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, what did you and the wallet do to find out who the unsubs were, and most importantly, what do you and the Ministry do to ensure that any member of the government recovers the damage caused to the Cséry site and that the inhabitants of South Pest will stop suffering the damage? Thank you for your meaningful reply.
u2015-05-19-78	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, who is competent and competent on the subject, will be answered by his State Secretary, Mr Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go.
u2015-05-19-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This area was one of the largest landfills in Budapest in the years 1893 to 1960. In the 60 ha Cséry site nearly 3 million cubic meters of waste were accumulated. Currently there is no liquid or solid waste disposal on the site. What you referred to in your question, Madam President, is not another pollution, but an event that took place in 2013 when unauthorized waste management took place. The case is currently under investigation. The environmental authority has done everything within its administrative and administrative powers, has ordered the company to transport waste and contaminated land immediately, has fined more than HUF 35 million for breach of the waste management order, and has fined HUF 200,000 three times for insufficient data, and has filed a criminal report at the police station. [[13.00]] The Metropolitan Municipality conducted an investigation, resulting in the termination of the employment of the executive director, the technical manager, the head of the waste management department, the head of the defence department, the head of the shift manager. In addition, a report was filed in the Budapest Police Department's Department against Corruption and Economic Crime for environmental damage and a breach of the order of waste management. The Ministry of Agriculture provided HUF 100 million from its 2014 budget to the Municipality of Budapest to explore the contamination of soil and groundwater. According to current data from the environmental authority and the water authority, the contamination detected does not currently affect drinking water bases in the environment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We would now have to ask Mr István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, and his question, but Congressman Szávay was unable to attend today's meeting. That's why I want to inform you that the house rules are 122. In accordance with paragraph 5 of Section 5 of this Article, its question shall be deemed to be withdrawn. However, the question of another better Member is therefore now coming. Mr Lajos Kepli, a representative of Jobbik, who wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why does the government not promote the spread of geothermal energy? It's an address. You have the floor, please. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-05-19-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is well known that many places in Hungary are suitable for the exploitation of geothermal energy, yet at present, geothermal energy accounts for less than 1 percent of our total energy production. It has many advantages to mention only the most important things: it can be used with very good environmental efficiency, it can be widely used both in agriculture and for heating and district heating purposes. For example, there are several great initiatives in the South Greatland, a great system where not only the heating of greenhouses has been solved, but they also use the thermal water extracted in hatcheries and local infrastructure heating, whose water has also created a unique natural treasure. In addition, at the moment, the district heating of nine cities is resolved in whole or in part in this way. The biggest problem today is investment costs, as investors can get little help to return on their investments of this type, even with a 10-year or longer payback period, which means that there are few or very few who are willing to do so at the moment. It should be noted that geothermal energy cannot be compared to natural gas or biomass, since such an investment should not be judged on a fuel basis. To the west of us, if we look at Germany, there is a well-functioning system there, although their geothermal gradient is much lower than ours here in the Carpathian Basin, so they can make much less use of it. Yet a much better support system is in place, where implementation and operation are supported. This not only offsets the length of the payback period, but also boosts the demand for technologies. If we had built a similar or better support system in Hungary, this type of renewable energy could have been developed at home, as Hungary could, as they say, be a great power. So I ask Mr Secretary of State what the government intends to do to increase and support the spread of geothermal energy. Thank you for your reply. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-05-19-83	[[No sound.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We fully agree with the importance of the subject you raised, and we want to strengthen it so much that, since 2010, the government has taken a number of measures to ensure full fulfilment of the EU's commitments on the use of renewable energy in line with the country's interests and the expansion of the use of internal renewable energy sources. The use of geothermal energy is also an important element of the renewable energy recovery action plan. Sustainable and efficient geothermal energy production is one of the cleanest, most environmentally friendly forms of energy production. Support for investment remains an important objective. Accordingly, greater use of geothermal energy is also identified as a priority area for development by operational programmes for the period 2014-2020. Greater use of geothermal energy can also be achieved through the use of the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, in a more accessible language by the COHEP, the operational programme for economic development and innovation, the operational programme for territorial and urban development and the resources of the competitive Central Hungary operational programme. The funds available to support this type of investment exceed HUF 560 billion. The opportunities opened this year and the successful investments made on the basis of them, together with the mandatory take-over system providing operating aid, will facilitate use. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The card should probably be installed. I didn't mean to interrupt. The next question is: Mr Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: How will the national parks receive the compensation promised? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2015-05-19-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A little less than a year ago, when the government announced that it would detract from the area payment of more than 1200 hectares that could be submitted with a single application, it was clear that among the biggest losers were national park directorates in Hungary, which provided rural livelihoods not only for many people but also for sustainable landscape use, on which ecotourism was built, a number of environmental and nature conservation tasks and programmes. At the time, we specifically asked Minister, Mr Secretary of State, what the solution would be, how national parks would lack this resource, and how this would affect their operation. The annual aid amounts for 2014 were received last year or early this year, but this year the deadline for submitting a single application is on Friday, and this is already significantly affecting national parks. However, it is now foreseen that there is no missing amount in the budget that would provide the resources necessary to perform nature conservation tasks, to operate safely, to disseminate knowledge of the environment and nature conservation, and to develop an approach. At the moment, more and more national park directorates are operating in such a way that their services are unfortunately barely available to a large part of the Hungarian society, the entrance fees and tickets are barely affordable, and therefore the national parks would obviously be increasingly dependent on revenue-oriented operations rather than environmental and nature conservation. My respectful question to the Secretary of State is how, if you can't see in the budget now, this fallout that the area payments have lost to the national parks... how they will get it for their operation. Expected layoffs? Is it expected that additional resources will come? Is it expected that they will receive income from other sources? How will national park directorates of our country finance their environmental and nature conservation tasks in the future? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-19-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2015-05-19-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, This measure affects all producers, not only national parks, but regardless of whether they belong to the public or private sector. However, in view of the change in the single area payment scheme, according to the bill on the submitted budget, the budgetary support of the boards will increase by around HUF 700 million compared to the 2015 level. The Ministry of Agriculture considers it essential that the budgetary situation of national park directorates at all times allows for the smooth and full fulfilment of their basic public tasks. The portfolio takes responsibility for ensuring adequate funding of national park directories in the following year, using the budgetary resources in its management. [[13.10]] The changes in the regulation vary in terms of the revenue of each directorate, typically the national park directorates in the lowland need more than the central budget. The portfolio shall continuously monitor the development of the budgetary situation of the directorates and, where appropriate, intervene with the extra redeployment and provision of the necessary additional resources. However, it is noted that a new element of the aid scheme, the so-called green component, which is expected to amount to EUR 81 per hectare, is not covered by the above-mentioned territorial limit. I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for pointing out the question which is important for the portfolio, and I confirm that our common goal is to ensure proper financing of the national state nature reserve system and thus further increase the results of the national park directorates so far. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-19-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Tukacs.
u2015-05-19-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The 1900. For years, we may have gotten used to certain government decisions being such a huge disappointment that they reach everyone, not just politicians around them, but family members, relatives, friends, press and everyone. This was also the case with the forinting, which entered into force on 1 February 2015. The forinting of loans has been a huge disappointment. I trust that you will meet with this, because I often say to every complainant interested in me the only sentence that is justified in this case to contact his Fidesz representative, in addition to me, just to face the problem. The problem is not only what the Prime Minister says that people want something better than any good, so practically the zero-forint payment would be a lot for them, but also that they are faced with a huge increase in their repayments, especially in the last months. They are disappointed because they see that the euro currently stands at 300 forints in the case of HUF 309 forints. They're disappointed because they don't lose the money they have to pay back, and they're disappointed because you guys have made unreasonable demands, threw numbers, placed emphasis on communication, and said that everyone will benefit. You want to deal with car loans now, and I hope you don't want to do it this way, that's the point of the question, because it's a failure. And finally, Mr Secretary of State, I know that, knowing his historical tendencies, he has been happy to do so for the last eight years, he will, as far as possible, present his text with regard to the Orbán-Járai foreign exchange decision. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-19-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Tukacs. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-05-19-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to talk about three things: a bad conscience, bad memory, and enlightenment, if you will allow me to do so. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: They always talked about it.]] You should have a guilty conscience, and you should be sorry that this huge social problem has been caused in Hungary, because millions of people have been put in this situation by the activities of your blessed government. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Who kept the exchange rate of the forint high? Márta Demeter: When did all this happen?]] They were not warned of the incredible risks of foreign exchange credit, and indeed the Fidesz government had to face the need to solve this problem. [[Gábor István Bellozó: How much have you won?]] But I must also warn you of your bad memory, because the MSZP has not provided any solution in recent years to how this should be resolved. The first solution was announced on 14 September 2014, when the forint was announced, but in December 2013 Tibor Szanyi suggested - as member of the board of the MSZP - that we allow foreign exchange lenders to negotiate with the banks individually and then find a solution. And finally, I'd like to talk to you about enlightenment. That, not, after creating the problem, for 4-5 years they were essentially silent about the solution, now they know what to do, now that the solution has been found, the Fidesz government and the Parliament will end this social problem with a consistent work for years, now they know what should have been done then. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You have changed the system for yourselves, and you have failed the people! Márta Demeter: You let people down! The government is letting people down!]] I'm asking you, why just now? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] When you can no longer decide on the issue, now comes the enlightenment of the MSZP about what to do with the problems of foreign exchange lenders. And by the way, I suggest that foreign exchange lenders who have problems or problems contact their bank if they do not get the right answer from the bank and then contact the conciliation body. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] who has been harmed or harmed in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-19-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Mr Vice-President, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question:. The CSOK's margin; the CSOK's short o, obviously. At the request of Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr András Tállai will answer the question.
u2015-05-19-93	Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased to read that after 1 June 2015, home creation aid will also be available for the purchase of used residential property, but unfortunately, the provision does not address the issue of the levy on the purchase of residential property, and in the absence of this, it continues to favour the richer layers in particular. If a family with two children acquires a newly built property of over 80 square meters, they can realize 1 million HUF 300 thousand, as they are exempt from the tax, but if a family with two children decides to buy a second-hand property, they can only make HUF 900-940 thousand out of 1 million HUF 300 thousand, since they have to pay a fee of 4 percent. Today, I think only a few young families in Hungary can afford new-built residential properties. Secretary of State, why does the law discriminate again positively against the more affluent at the expense of the poorer? Negative discrimination also affects parents over 35 years of age. A family father who was only able to collect a property by the age of 40 can only get to his first home under the heavy burden of paying taxes, and the families where one member was 40 years of age, but only now can afford to have children, the provision simply excludes them from the list of beneficiaries. The extension of the tax exemption to this age group and the elimination of negative discrimination among those over 35 could lead to an increase in childbearing. Does the Government wish to review the system of payment of taxes for the acquisition of real estate? Does the government want to contribute to the full benefit of the benefit of less wealthy families belonging to a wider population? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-94	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[Loránt Violin will replace Erzsébet Schmuck in the notary seat.]]
u2015-05-19-95	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am also pleased that you are pleased about the possibility of creating a new home support. Indeed, many families will be helped by the new support for home creation, the so-called CSOK, which also allows them to use the support when buying used housing. However, allow me to say that the question that you have submitted in writing is a number of factual errors, since the tax law has been amended since 1 January 2013 and allows for a 50% tax reduction for first-timers under the age of 35 and the value of the apartment has changed, so it is not 8 million, but 15 million. Allow me also to say what I originally intended to say, that in 2013 the maximum discount of HUF 40,000 was abolished, and even first-house buyers can pay this fee free of charge, in 12 months' instalments. [[13.20]] You also referred to the exemption from tax for the purchase of newly built flats, but I also draw your attention to the fact that there is no charge to the author of the building site if you agree to build a house within four years. In addition, I have to say that private individuals only have to pay a levy on the difference in the value of the apartments, so if the purchase and sale takes place within a year, they will only have to pay a levy on the difference. It can therefore be seen that the tax law contains broad advantages and exemptions, and we believe that these levies and exemptions are sufficient to stimulate the market for housing and housing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-96	Thank you very much. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that there is a two-minute period for which to reply. The next question is the question of László Kiss; the representative of the MSZP would like to ask the Minister for National Development:, Is the government really preparing to extend the tram line 1? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2015-05-19-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I have called for the extension of tram line 1 to the railway station in Óbuda on a number of written and heard questions. At the same time, however, several times in the walls of this House and in the lines that I have received in response, let us say that I have received reassuring, positive answers that these plans actually exist, and that is what the government is really preparing for. I myself have repeatedly said that as a representative of the district, I am in favour of this development. At the same time, however, there is some concern that there are several places where it can be read that an electric bus programme could jeopardise this development, and that the government will review this programme, while it has already decided not to review it, but that the programme is running, and that it can be implemented between 2017-18. I cannot stress enough how important III is. This is the development for the inhabitants of the district. I have said this on several occasions here in the House, and we have discussed that it is important that the extension of tram 1 can be linked to the development of the Esztergom railway line, and it is important that PPP parking places exist here, and how much this would help agglomeration transport, how much it would also help transport in the city of Esztergom and III. How would it help the district? Therefore, I ask Mr Secretary of State: did the government specify the date of the extension? When will the project start, if so, and how long will it take? About what costs are expected, what technical content - obviously roughly - will the investment take place? Does the construction of PPP parking spaces happen? Is the plan being implemented in relation to the current development of the Esztergom railway line, so will this development be coordinated with each other? Thank you for your answer.
u2015-05-19-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-05-19-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government decision containing the project lists of the national transport infrastructure strategy adopted last August includes the extension of tram line 1 to the north and even the extension of tram line 1 to Etele tér under the name of the southern extension of the project. We want to finance the extension of tram 1 in both directions by supporting the integrated operational programme for the development of transport between 14 and 20, which is what we said earlier. The government decision did not set a specific date for the start and end, but the current plans are that we will be able to start the investment in the external Vienna road tram line in 2017 and we would like to complete it by 2018. The total cost of the development was estimated at HUF 10.2 billion net. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the further preparation of the project, the time limits and the amount may vary until the completion of the permit and export plans, as well as any changes in the technical content. Within the framework of the investment, the tram line 1 is extended by nearly 3 km on the Vienna road between Vörösvári út and the station of the Budapest-Esztergom railway station in Aranyvölgy. In addition, related parking lots and inter-local bus stops will be built. In the framework of the project, we plan to build parking spaces to facilitate the transfer of park and ride, i.e. to the public transport of motorists, as well as to assist cyclists. The P+R and B+R parking lots would be financed under the IKOP, not in the previously used form of PPP, for example, for the construction of motorways M5 and M6, thus placing a significant burden on the budget until 2038. So our plans remain unchanged. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-05-19-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. More questions on the Buda-Cash case. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-05-19-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the liquidation information on the Buda-Cash Broker's website, the National Bureau of Investigation has closed the property, and according to the prospectus, it is not possible to issue the client's assets at the moment. Under the Investment firms and commodity service providers Act, and this clearly states that, when the investment firm is wound up, the money, financial instruments or registered funds deposited by the client with the investment firm, the financial instrument and funds held or due to the client and the asset subject to the commodity service shall not form part of the liquidation property in any account held by the investment firm or the commodity service provider for the benefit of the client. The law clearly separates the assets of customers from the assets of the company, which is why it makes the property available to the customers, i.e. that they do not have to wait for the end of liquidation, so that the law allows and even obliges the enforcer to do so. It is clear that the confiscation of assets to be carried out following the subsequent final conviction of the perpetrators of the crimes committed at Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt. does not affect the assets of the clients. If nothing else, the assets on the payer's accounts are certainly considered to be customers' assets, but unfortunately, some of the assets shown in their own account may actually be client assets. My fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, asked two questions about this to Minister. You refused to answer that in writing. Now I'm asking that we try it verbally, see if we can do it. All you have to say, Secretary of State, is what is the legal basis for the measure not to issue this property, as they refer to the seizure of the National Bureau of Investigation. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-19-102	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-19-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you know, this case is currently under investigation by the National Bureau of Investigation. The police carry out the proceedings under the supervision of the prosecutor's office in accordance with the law and carry out investigations in accordance with the rules of criminal proceedings. Under the Law on Criminal Procedure, information on the proceedings may be given to those who have a legal interest in the conduct of the proceedings or in the outcome of the proceedings. This information shall be requested from the investigating authority. In view of this, I am not at liberty to provide you with any more information regarding the details of the investigation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-05-19-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, this problem has not been solved orally, because what you have answered and what Minister has answered is unacceptable and even outrageous, Mr Secretary of State. 'Cause I'm asking you, specifically, not to give me any information about criminal proceedings. [[13.30]] I ask you, in total, to make a legislative reference to the basis and the legal basis for the seizure of these assets. So I'm not asking you how the procedure is. I'm not asking you specifically who you want or who you won't give this property to. Tell me, Secretary of State, what is your legal basis, which is the law on which you are holding back this property. That's the only question. This is not a question relating to criminal proceedings, it is a simple matter of supervision. Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps you do not dispute my right that, as a Member of Parliament, as a Member of the Parliament, I do have a place for the legitimate operation of the police, and I can control the government in this area. So I'm gonna ask you for information in this circle, and I'm gonna say this again, not about the prosecution, but about the legal basis for the seizure. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-19-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-05-19-107	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I fully respect and acknowledge your right to represent, and thank you for bringing this issue up before this House, but the laws I referred to earlier in the first part of my reply require us to give this answer. For further information, the liquidation of the Budapest Broker House is ongoing. The Investor Protection Fund pays compensation for existing and outstanding claims beyond client assets up to HUF 6 105 400 [[Nándor Gúr: Answer what the legal basis is!]] The National Deposit Insurance Fund paid for the DBR banking group belonging to Buda-Cash. [[Nándor Gúr: Do you practice reading? What's the legal basis?]] With the exception of problematic cases [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm only asking for a place of law!]] All clients have already received compensation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, In order to avoid similar cases, everything must be done. This is our shared responsibility and therefore the government has tabled a bill in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-19-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What has changed?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a result of his urgent public service. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-05-19-109	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-19-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Does the government consider it appropriate to deal with the broker scandal?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-05-19-111	Yes, thank you.
u2015-05-19-112	It says yes. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-05-19-113	Thank you very much. Minister, as you probably know, the brokerage scandal has started for some time now, and we can talk about damages over HUF 300 billion. Unfortunately, my own constituency, Cegléd, and its surroundings, have been severely affected by this broker scandal. Several people have taken their savings to the Hungária Securities, in the hope and confidence that in a company supervised by public authorities, these people will be able to secure their money in the form of legal investments. When they went to Hungária Érték Zrt., however, a Szabadság Trade Kft. The paper was put under people's noses, and on behalf of it they took people's money, abusing the confidence that investments made by a company that was supposed to be in possession of official permits would naturally provide security for its investors. According to some press reports, in and around my constituency, there are more than 25,000 victims of this measure, the fact that the authorities have not verified this undertaking in substance for years, they have found no reason to terminate its activities, and we are now in a position to remain silent in this matter by the Member of the Parliament of Fidesz. Now I am obliged to represent the interests of these people and to voice their voices in the Parliament in order to ensure that these people also receive compensation, because the Hungarian National Bank, which is led by your predecessor György Matolcsy, has failed to comply with its legal obligation, has failed to verify, to make strict account of this brokerage company, and that is why people's money could disappear. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-114	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2015-05-19-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to give you a slightly more comprehensive answer to your question, given that it concerned the treatment of the broker scandal. Firstly, I would like to remind you that both the government and the Fidesz faction and the pro-government factions have taken a huge number of immediate and unprecedented steps over the past period, the primary objective of which was to restore financial confidence in these instruments. Our main goal was to restore financial confidence, and I think that we have already taken steps to this end, and we will continue to take action. On 18 April, the claim management fund for the compensation of the victims of Quaestor entered into force, which was already discussed in Parliament today. I think that we also provide for a swift settlement of claims for persons and companies. So from this point of view, the measure was extremely fast, and I think it is exemplary, because we have also increased the damage value, the settlement of claims for these 32 thousand customers is already under way. We're starting to make demands. As a further step, the Ministry of Economy prepared a legislative change package aimed at developing the financial intermediary system. This has already been discussed by Parliament, Parliament. This will require further tightening of the surveillance activities that you have, otherwise unlawfully, complained about. In our opinion, it is necessary that the fine rules change and the Hungarian National Bank is able to act more effectively against companies that represent uncertainty in terms of capital markets. Last but not least, the Fidesz fraction group also initiated such an amendment, the law on the security of property for the victims of broker scandals. This was fully supported by the government. So what I have to tell you is that surveillance has been acting as an authority over the past few years, and the Fidesz faction and the government, for their part, have taken the necessary steps to mitigate the damage and restore confidence. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-19-116	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2015-05-19-117	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond to why, when the government side is legislating, a single company, why only Quaestor's clients are being compensated, why this does not extend to other clients who are similarly injured. Is there no political consideration behind this? It is also important to see that these people have been abused by the fact that for years, contrary to your statement, the Hungarian National Bank has not verified its activities for this brokerage company, and that is why it was possible to loot people, abusing the confidence that it is supposedly a brokerage company under the control of the Hungarian National Bank. With this confidence, people brought their money there, and now apparently the government was preparing to leave these people in trouble. There's been a lot of existence on this, and it's just that the people whose representatives I'm speaking to are on the ground. So I urge the Minister to make these people equally compensated and indeed to search for the lost property. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-118	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-05-19-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Once again, the government has taken immediate steps to protect the victims and restore confidence. I would also like to emphasise in the particular case you have mentioned that the investigations have not yet been completed. So there's a series of legal steps, one step can't prevent another. In this case, too, it is necessary to clarify the role this company, the company you mentioned, played in this abuse, whether there has been any degree of infringement that could lead to further action. And another set of steps is when, in the context of bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, we try to settle the claims of the victims by seizing and selling the necessary assets. So I ask you to be patient, too, in this case we are also in the process of administrative proceedings. Once these are completed, it is possible to obtain a clear picture of who is subject to the infringement and whether or not the proceeds from the sale of seized property and seized assets can address the claims of the victims. That cannot be answered today. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-19-120	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Manual control of public procurements? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. [[13.40]]
u2015-05-19-121	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, As you know, in the last two days, the press has been loud because the Prime Minister and a minister decide who and what investment they make from EU funds and how much. This is first, Minister. He admitted, and then on the second day, when he felt that it was embarrassing, he denied it. But the practice of recent years confirms Prime Minister's first statement that the distribution of EU funds is essentially done by manual control. And it's not okay, it's not okay, it's at least five things. 1. In Hungary, development and investment have been made only with EU money, essentially since we became members of the Union. Fair competition in the use of EU subsidies is therefore of particular importance. You, on the other hand, use manual control to limit fair competition to make projects more expensive, so that much less improvements can be made that improve people's actual living conditions.2. Thanks to this practice, most of the development money goes to the same narrow circle. In this way, the economy cannot develop, small and medium-sized enterprises must not be strengthened, there is no job creation. Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can only be subcontractors for a fraction of the commission fee, and thus employees of subcontractors can obtain a minimum salary. 3. It is not true that you would give special support to small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. If that were the case, we would not see so many consortia among the winners, full of foreign mammoth companies.4. The development goals themselves and calls for proposals are also distorted, as the important aspect is who wins.5. And not least, your practice is unacceptable because it sets a bad example for society. Dear Minister, I think the question is legitimate: when will the system of distribution of development money finally be transformed so that it does not serve the economic hinterland of Fidesz-KDNP, but the real development of the country, the strengthening of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and society benefits from all this? [[Mihály Varga: Make more foreigners, right? A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2015-05-19-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-05-19-123	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the subject deserves more seriousness than we can base this conversation on the confused recollection of an ex-American ambassador. It is not a friendly step in the relationship between the US government and the Hungarian nation that an American ambassador, rather distastefully, informs about private conversations or semi-official conversations in a way that cannot be traced back to reality. No one knows what was said in these private conversations, but we can only read an American fairy tale section as part of the Ambassador's supplementary work, on which I would not base a parliamentary debate, but since you are asking, and you are committed to dealing with these matters, I would be happy to respond. Firstly, I would like to reassure you that every year the European Commission is auditing the Hungarian money distribution system, which concerns the European Union's resources. So in Hungary, the European Commission is hard monitoring European taxpayers' money on how and how we spend it. The Hungarian error rate is below the average of the European Union, less than 2 percent of the funds have been found by investigators in the European Union, whose job is to try to contain possible abuses. I would like to speak clearly and clearly about the decision-making mechanism, because this is about how the government decides on certain matters. First, the government approves the so-called operational programmes - we just submitted the last one, the rural development operational programme last week - and then the operational programme is approved by the European Commission and then the government approves calls for proposals and action plans. The participating organisations, state organisations or even others, will put out the tender, conduct the tender, and after the tenders are executed, the National Development Government Committee will look at proposals of more than HUF 1 billion, which will decide not which company to win, but whether or not to be committed. I'll be happy to continue with the answer as to how we decide. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-124	Thank you very much, Minister. Let us hear the rejoinder of Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-05-19-125	Minister, the problem with the allocation of EU funds has been proven several times. From 2011 to November last year, OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office, handed over 34 corruption cases to the prosecution. Unfortunately, in the light of everyday practice, we can say that this is just the tip of the iceberg. And it is not just highways, infrastructure, concrete and steel that should be thought of here; human catching up: human programs to reduce social injustice are also in the swamps of Mud. It has not just been found that development resources are being used by you in a very specific way. The LMP has drawn attention on numerous occasions to the misuse of the Belts programme or to the withdrawal of the. Bridge to the world of work. These are all proposals with a budget of more than HUF 1 billion, so it can be assumed, on the basis of the Prime Minister's statement, that these proposals were also decided in private.
u2015-05-19-126	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Minister.
u2015-05-19-127	In private, the Prime Minister does not decide anyone or anything about government decisions. The work of the Development Government Committee as the allocation of EU funds is carried out in a form certified by the European Union. He looks at the procedures conducted over HUF 1 billion before the Development Government Committee's commitment. For example, if an enterprise wins more than one billion HUF under an operational programme of economic competitiveness, we also see which company wins this tender. However, when it comes to public works, these development procurements conducted by specific beneficiaries will not come before the government, but the National Infrastructure Developer or the Hungarian State Railways will decide where what will happen. Everything you're talking about doesn't go to the government, it doesn't go to the Prime Minister alone, but there is an entrance, a structure approved by the European Commission, where decisions are made. As far as the rate of errors is concerned, Congresswoman, the European Commission claims that the Hungarian system is working well and that the errors are below the average of the European Union. I think we should respect what they say about the European Union's taxpayers' money. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-128	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. How does the new Danube bridge between Kalocsa and Paks help the people living in the region? It's an address. Congressman Font Sándor has the floor.
u2015-05-19-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The people living in the Kalocsa and Paks region can fulfil an old desire, wish, with the government's decision last week to build a new connecting road bridge in the vicinity of the two cities, based on the government's decision. It is well-known that this issue has long been in the idea of people living in the region, and various proposals have been made to create this link, but it has become clear that in recent months, when Paks II. The government and Attila Aszodi, Commissioner of the Government, did not have a settlement where this issue would not have been raised by the residents, in order to generate energy from the nuclear power plant. There is no question that the outsiders, primarily linked to the construction of the nuclear power plant, think that this is a huge opportunity for those living on the left bank of the Danube, to be affected by about 6-8, possibly 10 thousand, as entrepreneurs and employees, who can participate in these processes even during the construction phase of the power plant, or during the general operating period of the power plant, since there is no need to reach Paks and its catchment area by 80 to 100 kilometres. We also see that a number of major problems can be solved by the construction of a possible bridge, for example, the Kalocsa hospital can provide a very serious supply area for people on the right bank of the Danube, with no hospital near it, but with either the logistics base area or the Glencore plant oil company, it can simplify the delivery of over 600 thousand tonnes of agricultural raw materials to farmers from Transdanubia. I ask the Minister how you see, what you base your proposal on, how it can help the people living in the region between Kalocsa and Paks to build a possible Danube bridge. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-130	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. [[13.50]]
u2015-05-19-131	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr President, If I may, I would like to begin by saying that we have held 41 residential forums with the help of my State Secretary colleagues, under the leadership of Government Commissioner Attila Aszódi, and we have met 3,000 voters in the counties concerned; this means Tolna County and Bács County. I would also like to say that the overwhelming majority of voters have supported the implementation of the investment in terms of maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant; of course we have ideas. The debate was not about whether or not to invest, but about how this investment should be carried out. I regret that our fellow Members, who, by the way, in Parliament, regularly and loudly oppose the survival of the nuclear power plant and campaign for the closure of the nuclear power plant, were not there in these residential fora, and could not experience the opinion of the population, although they were happy to refer to the population and the people. So I can say for sure that in the immediate vicinity of the nuclear power plant - for the 41 municipalities involved in the administrative procedure - it is quite certain - these 41 municipalities support this investment. We will establish a social council, a conciliation forum with representatives of the 41 mayors and the regional parliamentary representatives, and we will create the continuation of former forms of cooperation in the spirit of Paks II investment, and we would like to contribute to the development of settlements. The government also decided to put on the agenda the most important issue concerning Bács county: it would take three and a half years to build a bridge between Kalocsa-Foktő-Dunaszentgyörgy, which could be a two-functional bridge, so it would be a railway bridge and a road bridge at the same time, which would cost about HUF 40 billion. The Prime Minister and the Government clearly support the implementation of this investment, because we believe that maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a huge economic opportunity for both counties, including construction itself. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-132	Thank you very much. A rejoinder shall be given to the Member.
u2015-05-19-133	Thank you very much, Minister. I think there have been figures that can reassure doubters that there is a point in building a new road bridge between Kalocsa and Paks. I took part in all of the information events on the left bank of the Danube, and it was not really a question of whether the nuclear power plant could be replaced, but the only question was how the people on the left bank of the Danube could connect to this, how they could benefit from it either as an entrepreneur or as a workforce or as an employee. As I mentioned, we also see other opportunities in connection with a possible Danube bridge, such as the old Russian military base, airport: it is now owned by the local government, an industrial park, and as a place for decoding, it provides an opportunity not to make additional investments. I trust we will be able to list some of those benefits. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which we cannot yet give an answer to, and the later ones show that it was very logical, so the people who live there only ask when they can see it done. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-134	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder shall be granted to the Minister.
u2015-05-19-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their participation in the public forums, who considered the opinions of the voters they referred to important, so I think it was also useful for you, Member, to take a position in the debate on the maintenance of nuclear power plant capacity. On the other hand, I would like to confirm once again that the Government has instructed the Ministry of Development to start design work, a study plan is being prepared first. It takes three, three and a half years to carry out the investment, in 2017-18 we want to start the physical part of the construction work in order to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the Authority's authorisation procedure is under way. The first public hearing took place in Paks with 530 participants in an absolutely supportive atmosphere, and the first international public hearing takes place on 10 June in Kiev. The authorisation procedure is also underway. It is an investment of 40 billion for the bridge, and the maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant could represent 8 000 jobs in the two counties, which will make a substantial contribution to GDP growth and, for example, can have a meaningful influence on the maintenance of the former Kalocsa barracks and its future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-136	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:.Azbesztbizsz Várpalota? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Zsolt V. Németh State Secretary for his reply in order to fulfil his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On the sign of Zoltán Haughty.]] It says yes. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-05-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last night there was a residential briefing at Castle Palace, and a number of questions were raised about the dumping of asbestos-contaminated waste there, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State a different question, which was not said there yesterday. I looked at the permit to modify the single environmental permit. On 23 February 2015, the company concerned, who intends to transport this hazardous waste to Várpalota or Inota, submitted its fifth request for amendment to their environmental permit in relation to the depot, and in 18 days Kft. managed to obtain this authorisation. Has no one noticed, Mr. Secretary, how a permit can be obtained so quickly, listing on four pages the dangerous substances that can then be placed in a public waste storage facility? I am asking, Mr Secretary of State, it has not occurred to anyone that this business may have started in connection with the tender in the capital city or, more specifically, in Pest County, which he then won, despite the fact that in this case it is necessary to transport 27 thousand tonnes of asbestos-contaminated material within 170 kilometers. Did no one really notice how this could be the best offer with such volume and weight? Obviously, the other two deponias were working on a different type of procedure. I would like to ask you, Secretary of State, whether the environmental authority always decides with such record speed or only in certain cases, especially when it comes to a $1,3 billion business. I need some answers on these. There was no question of that there yesterday, nor was there an answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-19-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2015-05-19-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, According to the government's decision, perhaps a decade of trouble will be solved in Zagyvasántó, where asbestos-mixed demolition and construction debris accumulated in huge quantities. After a public procurement procedure, the ditch in the Castle Palace seemed to be the best place for this, and we consider it to be the most suitable today, because we can safely say that environmental pollution and damage to health will not be in Zagyvaszántó's district or in Várpalota's area - but it will be poison-mixing. I will include all those people who are fully aware of the nature of asbestos, the conditions under which it pollutes, causes health damage, and we will look for all kinds of reasons to question a clean procurement procedure and a designated landfill. First of all, the examination of this landfill did not start directly when the negotiated procurement procedure was published, but in the autumn of last year the inspectorate had already contacted dozens of landfills, examining the possible solutions, because there are some conditions for placing this huge quantity of 26 thousand tons in the landfill. First of all, this landfill must have the possibility of forming a separate pool; this is given in very few places. In addition, we had to examine what its annual and final capacity was. I'll answer the rest in the next minute.
u2015-05-19-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congressman is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-05-19-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. I asked if the environmental authority would in any case issue an environmental permit in 18 days. Or have they assigned this depression? Obviously, there was a reason why, and by not asking anyone, the council of representatives in Castle Palace or the people there, they started transporting this dangerous waste there on 10 May. [[14.00]] Yesterday, the Castle Palaces gave a clear answer, Mr. Secretary. They don't want any of this stuff. I would like to ask you, finally - after examining this process, we will obviously return to this case when this is over, but I do not understand how that permit has been completed so quickly - will they be willing to acknowledge the decision of the Castle Palace and take this hazardous waste to a place where it is not 170 kilometres across the country. I want an answer to that question, not what asbestos does. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-19-142	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-19-143	It's important what asbestos does. Obviously, the government can consider a number of other aspects. Allow me to bring the environmental aspects here. And I will continue by examining 18 municipal-owned landfills and 12, which are not municipal, because it may not be possible to place 26 thousand tons of construction debris in a landfill built on public municipal waste from European Union sources, because we did not receive the EU resource. However, the design of the castle palace is one that meets all security aspects. The only reason the authorities were so fast was because it was necessary, because there was a need to solve this case quickly. And once again, prior to the procedure, the inspectorate examined for months to select possible landfills. We're going to continue this investigation, we're going to put it in front of the government, but if someone asks me if I think it's appropriate to place this debris elsewhere at double cost, I'm saying it's not. Because if there is a free 1.3 billion, it should be used to eliminate similar important pollution.
u2015-05-19-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. In the light of yesterday's Prime Minister's visit, what is the Ministry's position on the Debrecen refugee camp? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2015-05-19-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Viktor Orbán's visit to Debrecen yesterday served as a source of interest, among other things he talked about in the case of refugees, which Jobbik has been pushing for for years. The following sentence also left the Prime Minister's mouth: not to expand the reception station, but to close it. You can remember, Secretary of State, a few weeks ago, I was talking about spending 143 million forints to expand the camp and burden the city of Debrecen with hundreds of new refugees and immigrants. Jobbik has been trying to get the camp out of Debrecen for a long time, but what's new is that Fidesz wants it too. The Prime Minister's words on immigration are not credible, because no action has been taken in the last five years to restore the border guard that the socialists have abolished. This exists in many European countries. The Prime Minister's words are also discredited, false, and propaganda-like because Jobbik's aspirations for the Debrecen refugee camp have not been supported for many years, even though we have indicated at a number of forums, press conferences, demonstrations and dozens of parliamentary and municipal speeches that Debrecen's interest would require that the refugee camp be closed and subsequently relocated. The Secretary of State himself has always deceived me, no matter how many times I have asked him in the walls of this House about this matter. I would now like to ask you once again what you think of this matter in the light of the Prime Minister's words, and I would like to ask two questions that I expect straight and meaningful answers to. Do you wish to restore the border guard - with the cost of a national consultation of completely unnecessary and clumsy issues - and, as a first step towards the closure of the Debrecen refugee camp, do you wish to close the Debrecen reception centre? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2015-05-19-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister's words yesterday contain the objectives that we have already pursued. We stress that international asylum rules have been and will continue to be respected. Those whose lives are in danger because of the war conditions in their country will continue to be accepted, but those who are not in danger at home, who just want to benefit from their stay in Hungary, who want to make a living from social aid and want to live in the country have no business here. Illegal immigration must always be seen as a violation of the law, if we do not regulate immigrants, then the civil arrangements that the government aims to set up will have no chance. As regards the two issues, Hungary currently has a border guard, the Hungarian police have been carrying out these tasks since 1 January 2008, and also at international level, in an excellent quality recognised by the European Union and Frontex. I would also like to thank the staff of the Hungarian border guard, the staff of the Hungarian police, who carry out border surveillance tasks. By the way, this stock has been constantly strengthened in recent years, just as we have confirmed the police. We have provided serious budgetary resources for this, we have adopted a serious legislative background, stricter laws that you have never voted for, Congressman. I am sorry that you have never supported these laws, have never supported order in this country. So, despite this, we are doing everything we can to ensure order in the country, to protect the country, to protect the country's borders, and to clearly state our position on the Prime Minister's words, we are following those words. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-19-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2015-05-19-149	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, We're thinking of a stand-alone border guard, because at our southern borders, what's going on, I'm sure you know very well how refugees flow freely into our country. If we had our own border guard, that wouldn't happen. Again, he did not say a half sentence about whether the refugee camp in Debrecen was to be declared closed, whether it was to be closed, so that refugees could not move freely in Debrecen. And I would like to address one more question, and this is the immigration quota, which, if it is included in the EU legal system, as President Gábor Vona said, will then initiate a referendum on that, and then the position of the parties can be made clear, because this will open up a question that may be very damaging to our country in the future, as the quota number tailored to our country is less than the number of immigrants coming into our country, but this can be revised and drastically increased by the Western States later. Please respond to these. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-150	Thank you. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2015-05-19-151	Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz-KNDP has launched a national consultation on immigration, the refugee issue. This national consultation has been launched. We trust that there will be a national agreement on this very important issue that will enable us to make the necessary laws. At present, we are bound by EU rules, but we are struggling to change these rules, and immigration and asylum should be a national and national competence. And if that happens - what we would very much like and hope that the citizens of Hungary will support this initiative - then we will also take the necessary measures in relation to the refugee camp in Debrecen. In the meantime, I ask you to support the government, to support the government's policy of protecting order, public security, the borders of the country, because, once again, the police have been strengthened, we have strengthened the border police units. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] We have improved technical equipment and we are doing everything we can to ensure that order is in order. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-19-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:, How much does the government plan to support R &amp; D in the EU budget period up to 2020? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2015-05-19-153	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Research and development is a targeted systematic expansion of the creative knowledge base. Innovation through R &amp; D and innovation is a nation-wide strategic issue, one of the breaking points for our country. With the help of innovation, we can meet as many Hungarian and Hungarian products as possible in the world. The social role of R &amp; D was well recognised by the government when the National R &amp; D and Innovation Strategy 2020 was adopted in 2013 to set the main objectives of the 2014-2020 cycle in the field of R &amp; D and innovation policy. [[14.10]] The introduction of the strategy is this:. It is hardly new that every forint spent on R &amp; D and innovation is also an investment in the future of both companies and the country. For this reason, it is important for governments at all times to develop framework conditions that encourage companies to develop research and development and innovation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Minister, It is a serious problem that a lot of Hungarian ideas have come out to the world market with foreign funding, so the income and added value from it will also go abroad. I therefore ask the honourable Minister what and, above all, what the government plans to support R &amp; D in the EU budget period up to 2020. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-19-154	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-05-19-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, I would also like to inform my fellow Member and the Parliament that the programmes will be outlined and finalised, as a result of which it is clear that our National Research, Development and Innovation Centre, established by the 2014 amendment of the law, to which we have asked Professor József Pálinkás to lead, can manage some HUF 1350 billion between 2014 and 20. HUF 1350 billion for R &amp; D and innovation has never been seen in the country's past 25 years. In 2004, we spent 180 billion on R &amp; D and innovation, and in 2013 the country spent 420 billion, according to KSH data. Only EU funds will be available at 1350 billion, the division of which will be decided by the aforementioned agency. The former President-elect of the Academy has been asked twice by the government to determine the direction of the distribution of R &amp; D and innovation money, to decide on internal content, and to be able to link the world of the economy with the world of research and development and science. This is a very important issue because the development policy lesson of the last seven years is that the funds for research and development and innovation were easily available money, and often universities and businesses received this resource as a supplement to income. This is not what we want now, but what we want to achieve is that resources for innovation, R &amp; D support economic growth and create jobs. For example, we will create a research and development centre in Győr at the Audi base and Miskolc at the Bosch base, because the scientific results achieved and the results of research and innovation should immediately become an economic advantage. This will be a very important step in changing the country. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-19-156	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-05-19-157	Dear Minister, Thank you for your answer. One of the most important tools for innovation is R &amp; D. I therefore consider it extremely important that the government, recognising this, intends to spend three times the previous amount, i.e. 750 billion forints out of 1350 billion by 2020. Dear Minister, This is also important because, as a result of the above, the added value and the income from it can remain in our country all the more. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-19-158	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Minister in return.
u2015-05-19-159	Thank you very much. Now there is only one important issue that the country needs to clarify, what R &amp; D means and what innovation means. Because, once again, in the last seven years, if we trace back the use of these funds, these were so-called easy-to-reach soft money for either economic operators or universities. If I want to be honest, this is not necessarily intended to complement university salaries, but rather to achieve economic growth. Yesterday we met with the Prime Minister in the company of Professor Pálinkás, the Rector of the University of Debrecen - we are talking about the largest university in the countryside - and we were trying to understand exactly how the University of Debrecen, the economic operators of Debrecen, in Debrecen, has such concrete ideas that we expect to achieve in Debrecen, by sacrificing these resources, combining research development and innovation. I assure you that there are such initiatives, such as in the pharmaceutical and health sector, Debrecen can be the most powerful innovation centre in Central Europe, which can be used directly in the economy with the help of TEVA and Richter factories there. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-19-160	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Ikotity to István:]] It says yes. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-05-19-161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For years, the National Rescue Service has refused to acknowledge that ambulance workers are entitled to a supplement due to the psychological strain they have suffered during their work. Since 2012, paramedics have been fighting for health-damaging risk allowances in 18 courts in the country. We are talking about HUF 20,000 a month, which would supplement their average gross salary of HUF 150,000. So far, there have been two non-final judgments, one of which has been won. While saving is one of the ten most burdensome jobs, Hungarian legislation does not recognise it as a health-damaging work. Under current legislation, a risk premium for a job is provided if there is a health risk of more than 50 percent of the working time. The National Rescue Service claims that the actual working time of the paramedics is less than 50 percent of the working time. Still, waiting is a burden, not to mention the stress that comes upon them when they leave. In the course of labour litigation, judicial experts have also found that rescue officers, paramedics and ambulance drivers are exposed to significant occupational risks, of which psychosocial risks are harmful to health. However, OMSZ and EMMI refuse to acknowledge this. My written question was recently answered that a so-called burn-out team is working on the psychological and mental health care of the staff. While psychic assistance is clearly needed, this does not preclude workers being given hazard allowances. 6500 employees would cost the state $3 billion. My question is whether this bonus will be granted now when we are before the adoption of a budget. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-19-162	Thank you, Congressman. [[For the Members of MSZP who are standing up:]] I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[Attila Mesterházy: At least we're in and Fidesz isn't!]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2015-05-19-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The legal provisions state exactly what kind of allowances there are for rescue workers. It is clear that the load there is very high. Obviously, for many people, this practice has been a huge strain for decades. For this reason, the Government Decree 356/2008 regulates this issue in the year XXXIII. under the authority of the law. Thus, the emergency allowance for the exit of the National Rescue Service is 120 percent of the bonus fund, but in practice even additional allowances will be paid. One is the withdrawal allowance, which is 24 thousand HUF/person/month, shift allowances, which are 15 per cent of the monthly basic wage on average, and overtime, which is on average 3 per cent of the monthly basic wage. These are the allowances that are laid down by the law and must be paid to all workers at the rescue service. Obviously, in order to do so, resources are needed. This is why it is important to note here that while in 2010 the budget allocation for the rescue service was HUF 23.4 billion, this increased to HUF 33 billion last year, i.e. from 23 to 33. Overall, with further modifications, when we look at the closure of the rescue service, this increases to 37 and a half billion. [[14.20]] The increase from 23 billion to 37 billion HUF, I think, is quite significant and represents a clear increase for everyone. Of course, the health sector wage increase was extended to rescue officers, paramedics and rescue car drivers in 2012-13. For them, on average, this meant an increase of approximately HUF 40,000 in wages over the last five years, so they managed to increase their salaries within the allowances. In addition, it is very important that we have created 18 skills development centres, called skill labs, which also served to improve their training and skills in the value of HUF 586 million. And I will continue from here, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member István Ikotity has the right to reply.
u2015-05-19-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you cannot approach this subject without feeling. I think that if someone was in an ambulance, they saw the conditions under which these people work, and if they consider that the average net salary of these people is below HUF 100 thousand, then I think this supplement is obviously small. For every sane person, it is fully acknowledged that these people are exposed to this, this amount we are talking about, this 20,000 HUF increase or bonus for this 6500 worker, who is talking about it, is a net HUF and a half billion. It's a small thing. This could be given in one motion when the budget is adopted, and these people should not be put in such an unworthy position that they must turn to courts. Once among the paramedics, among the comrades was pride. Nowadays, I think that paramedics have a much harder situation, and they can't be proud of this profession, and they can't do it professionally if they don't get the proper recognition and respect. That's what we're asking, Mr. Secretary, for now. Thank you.
u2015-05-19-166	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2015-05-19-167	Thank you very much. I think it's not just pride, but also heroism, if any, that the paramedics are doing. I think a lot of people have seen the video that showed the skill of one of the ambulance drivers. I think a lot of us can pay tribute to their work, doctors, drivers, others. You're talking about 20,000 forints, Your Honour. We would obviously like to give a multiple of this, and in the last five years we have managed to increase these people's benefits by an average of HUF 20,000 in 2012-13, i.e. twice as much as the Member has asked. Obviously, we are investing additional resources in health care so that we can make additional wage increases. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that what you have asked for, honourable Member, has doubled in the last five years. But in addition to that, which means not only the wage, but indeed the increased load and preparation work there: I could talk about four simulation centres, an emergency academy of 250 million forints, 300 new ambulances purchased over the four years, which this year 21 has already completed and 32 more, as well as four new premature ambulances. I trust this will also improve the conditions of the rescue. But the wage increase, as we have already started, will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last immediate question will take place. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. You chose death? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2015-05-19-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, János Lázár asked me the following questions in the same case: in case M4, the true word that Minister Seszták wrote to you was that the European Commission also withdrew funds from the project and the budget did not provide the money. This is exactly the same as when someone builds a house and runs out of money. At this moment, the most important thing is to account for the mason to whom he has commissioned, and then, after considering whether he has the opportunity to continue, of course, this sequel has no possibility. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, there's more trouble with these few sentences. First, when we build a house, we have some money when we start building a house, or we have the total money. However, the construction of the M4, the Abony-Weapon phase, was started by the government without ever having the money. As early as 2013, he knew that the European Union would not support this phase. For years the government, János Lázár, Viktor Orbán, has lied, and for years the investment costs of this phase have been increased. Even in December 2014, it was increased by a few ten billion forints, or Viktor Orbán himself. It is not enough that Viktor Orbán himself and his team decide on those investments and projects - this was admitted by the Prime Minister himself days ago - but, in essence, they have even deceived investors, fooled people in Szolnok County and Hajdú-Bihar County. Moreover, it has been revealed in recent days, and now János Lázár acknowledged that they want to continue the investment with reduced technical content, with new public procurement. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, how long are you gonna lie about the M4? We have already heard seventy-seven versions - finally tell us the truth about what will happen, what investment will be made, and when will they continue to build the M4! I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-05-19-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2015-05-19-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There's always a problem when you want to learn how to ride a bike from a textbook and then you quit your lesson, but you can't ride a bike. You have certainly learned the political statements, I think, from the gentleman behind you - not from László Teleki, one way away - but, unfortunately, this is not enough for infrastructure development. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government considered the M4 case, the Szolnok's fast-track approach, the M4, similarly to other motorways, to be an essential thing. If you say that we risked it when we started planning and implementing it in trust with EU promises, then you are right about that. But we took a chance because we knew it was important. We still consider it very important today, which is why, knowing that the European Union is not willing to support this, we are looking for an internal source of this, and we will find this internal resource by the end of May. The Ministry of Development is working on how to find the quick way to fast-track Szolnok's fast-track connection and get it to the M4 border. We have been working on this, and we will work on it in the future, and we will implement it, even if you do not trust it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-19-172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congresswoman.
u2015-05-19-173	Secretary of State, I asked you what reduced technical content means. I hope not what has been written in certain newspapers, that the stage, which is already rightly called the death route, will be in even worse situation. I would like to read once again, Mr Secretary of State, that there have been 165 accidents in this section in the last five years, 311, and 26 deaths. If this section is continued with reduced technical content, it will become even more dangerous and there will be more accidents on this road. So, it's true what I gave you as my title: you chose death, right, for the people on this road. The problem with M4 has been a problem for many decades. The risk of an accident on this road has been a problem for many decades. It would be good if the people of East Hungary were also important. For Viktor Orbán travels the country, he promises tens of billions of forints to every county by spending fifty years in advance the amount that we will not have. Finally, the county of Hajdú-Bihar and the county of Szolnok will be awarded the amount they deserve, and the people of East Hungary will have it! Thank you.
u2015-05-19-174	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-19-175	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Unfortunately, you're not only demagogic, you're also cynical. You argue with tragedy over short-term political flashes. We are aware of the significance of the M4, we are aware of the need to connect Szolnok, we are aware of the importance of the expressway to the border - [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's interventions:]] I have listened to you too - and that is why we have also taken a risk of achieving this as soon as possible. We're gonna make it happen, we're gonna do it. Sixty seconds is not enough for me to enlighten you about the technical content of road development here, in fact, to teach you. Thank you for the distinguished attention of the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2015-05-19-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. That concludes our agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, independent Member László Varju applied for a speech:. The most important events of the last week? It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-19-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Today will increase, I see, the significance of last week's events, because the Castle Palacers have not received an honest answer about what will happen to them, nor an opportunity to truly understand and know what the government really wants. The situation that was produced here, first of all, by Minister Lázár and Mr Károly Kontra, who came up with the solution, created the situation that, essentially, 26 thousand tonnes of waste generated by an otherwise unprofessional breakdown in a settlement in Heves County, would be transferred to Várpalota, the landfill in Inota, and would not spare the cost of 1.3 billion forints to export this problem from Heves County to Veszprém County in this way. Obviously, it is not the protest of the Castle Palaces that everything that happens is against the Heves County. They know exactly that the solution to what's happening there is just wrong. Therefore, given the procedure that had been established, i.e. the mayor's office in Várpalota, the mayor said that she did not know about this whole process, the notary already admitted that from 17 March she knew exactly what material was being transported to the ditch in Várpalota, compared with which the population was not informed in one word. Therefore, on the initiative of a local association and the Democratic Coalition, a forum was held for which Mr Kontrat, who has now left the room, arrived, where he admitted that he had actually learned what was happening two days before him, or at least said so. So what's going on? Since May 11, this transport has been carried out without the local government's consent or even repeatedly expressing its objection. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on yesterday's government initiative, another city forum was set up, and on this forum twice in a row, both in the previous one, in Inota and in Várpalota, people have clearly stated that they are not asking for this waste, and they are asking the government to stop shipping immediately and suspend this project and put an end to it. On the spot, Mr.Károly Kontra interpreted Mr. János Lázár's message that if the palaces protest well enough, they would take him elsewhere. In addition, Mr Károly Kontrát literally said that in my presence, by the way, I will represent the opinion I hear from you, from the voters - from my constituents. Dear House, I propose that it act on this basis and that the Government take into account that the Castle Palaces demand that this transport be suspended and not continued and that the project be terminated. The castle palaces clearly protested what had happened above their heads. The next question is how it could have happened that an ex-fidesz Member of Parliament, Mayor Márta Talabér, did not know this until otherwise informed at the press conference on the day of the forum. But responsibility is not the first question, but the elimination of this project. That's what the Castle Palace demands. Therefore, I must say that it is not only lawlessness that is happening here, but it is inhumanity, and the government must put an end to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2015-05-19-178	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbikós, spoke with the title Health Consultation, instead of Internet consultation. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-19-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday was World Internet Day. But yesterday was also the starting day for the national consultation on the Internet, where MEP Tamás Deutsch will be waiting for questions about the future of the Internet. Thanks to the expansion of the Internet over the past few years, words like Twitter, Facebook, and millions live their virtual reality on these so-called sites. One of them is the father of the Internet consultation itself, Tamás Deutsch, the Hungarian world wide's uncoroned Twitter king, i.e., as it is written on Twitter, or at. It seems in today's world, if we want to draw attention to something in social media, then we need to learn how to say it. I've assembled a three-word short conductor for you to understand the following passages. In the language of the portals, the first thing to learn is the use of the worm. It stands for someone. For example, Tamás Deutsch's Worm's Twitter can be found under the name Pontifex. Another important sign is to put a double cross in front of a word. This makes it easier to search for phrases that they mentioned, such as double cross or hashtag Budapest, for all entries that refer to Budapest in a similar way. Now that you know the guide, it's time to talk about why I want to speak in the language of social media today. Because it seems that this is the only trendy way to get involved with important decision makers, such as the father of the national Internet consultation, the maggot nanny and through him with his boss and good friend, the eternal guardian of the cash register, the maggot orban underwear victim. The subject of today's message: a double cross is a huge problem in health care. Dear maggots nanny. I'm glad you're here to consult on the Internet, in the world of double cross Internet. I am not sorry for your work, but I would also have something to consult on, for example, double cross health wages, double cross health working conditions, double cross healthcare supply. You know, weenie nannytom, the main problem is that in a month, not five people earn as much as Zsolt Gömöri president of the worm Paralympic Committee. Their wages are just 10 percent more than the minimum wage. In addition, they could use a double cross final repayment, as a worm Paralympic committee, given to President Zsolt Gömöri and his associates. Dear nanny. Believe me, health workers are also disturbed by their double cross currency loans, and they would also have been happy to have double cross payments. We saw that you understood that, so now you can tell us why it would be good to give them more wages, and now you can authentically tell the worm orban underwear victor what to do. Please put it there. Double cross is damn important. But that's nothing! Net greater trouble, as you use the words, so, net greater trouble double cross health working conditions. For example, a double cross button is sewed after the caesarean section on the stomachs of mothers; stylishly: WTF? Trust me, health workers are not YOLO, they're not SWAG. But turning around, under the circumstances, it would be worth giving more money to improve working conditions, because, after all, all of us are YOLO. But, maggots nannytom, I see you're jumping at home at Jumping School, so I'm sure school years are close to you. Well, then you should know, double cross health workers are in serious trouble. There's no student, which is fine because they don't have an instructor anymore. Well, it's a problem, because if a maggot's jayartopeter breaks his leg, he's running in his team with a worm soccer training, there'll be no one to nurse him, not the double cross in a bloody hospital, or the double cross in a luxury fork. [[14.40]] Now, that's when you'd really have a double cross with a pretty bang circus and a double cross with a nix bounce! So, now you finally get the double cross supply in health care, double cross has a very big problem. In conclusion, I hope that the voice of health care problems has come over better for you, and you understand what they say to a worm orban bottom trait victor, because he certainly doesn't read such news, because he could get the same expensive internet, which even Romanian mountain shepherds are cheaper to intern in the Fogaras snows. So please, maggots nannytom, interpret this quick double cross health consultation, which we have done in your language separately, and thus what the worm JobbikMM representative of worm lulkada and worm more than 100,000 health workers have been saying for months now, and the latter has been saying for years. Please translate what you've heard. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-180	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Mr Tibor Bana, from the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of the Saving Station in Szentgotthárd, 50 years old. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-19-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On May 10, we celebrate the day of the ambulance on the occasion of the establishment of the Budapest Voluntary Rescue Association 128 years ago, in 1887; 67 years ago, and in 1948, the National Rescue Service was also established on this day. The founding Director General of OMSZ, Dr. Béla Orovecz, became a medical major, government commissioner for rescue, who was the organizer of the Budapest air defense rescue during the Second World War. The new organization, which now has national competence, also started its operation on 10 May in respect of Géza Kresz and the Budapest Voluntary Rescue Association. In the year of establishment, the National Rescue Service had 77 rescue stations, 359 workers and 132 ambulances. The starting fleet consisted of vehicles that survived the World War II siege and were made up of donations. Thanks to the development and network expansion, the station network today consists of 231 stations, with more than 7,000 rescue workers and more than a thousand cars along with the backup vehicles. Last Saturday, Szentgotthárd hosted the day of the Vas county ambulances, which took place year after year, because the rescue station in Szentgotthárd had just started operating 50 years ago. On the occasion of the round anniversary, local entrepreneurs gave a memorial column inauguration, rescue parade, conference, awards, international rescue demonstration, and a rescue historical exhibition. We're involved in the lives of many people. Fewer for some, much for some. But they won't know our names. I don't even know what we've done for them. Our work is hidden and anonymous. The quote from Dr. Tamás Felkai, a paramedic, can be read on the memorial column inaugurated at the event in Szentgotthárd with the participation of Austrian, Slovenian and Hungarian rescuers. We participated in the prestigious event with Gábor Lábodi County Assembly and Szentgotthárd Municipal Representative, as well as with the leaders of the local Jobbik Youth Department. We've always taken care of the city's rescue station. Last year, Gábor Lábodi, the president of the organization, gave a charity auction of a glass table engraved by him, at the end of which we offered the money to the rescue stations in Szentgotthárd and Heves County. Paramedics should be respected, especially in the light of the fact that unfortunately the practitioners of this responsible profession do not receive due respect, since they have to work under low pay, in the face of serious difficulties. Dear Parliament, I have received numerous complaints in recent years, and I would also like to convey these cry for help within the framework of this speech. In addition to paying, working conditions leave plenty to be desired in Vas County. It is a serious problem that workers continue to leave their jobs, which is becoming increasingly difficult in our county. There are more and more cars shut down, and the ambulances are going down all the time. The number is therefore decreasing and the fleet would need to be renovated. Paramedics are getting worse every day. In order to ensure safe care for patients, the machinery park of rescue stations in the region should be expanded and modernised as a matter of urgency. In this regard, we have heard serious promises from the government in recent years, which have not been implemented. The rescue station in Celldömölk has been promised ambulance for a long time, but it still has not arrived, but Szentgotthárd's rescue station would also need a new ambulance, even for a long distance from the county seat. I could continue the line, since all ten rescue stations in Vas county have tasks to solve, not to mention the maladministration in the rescue control centre in Szombathely. Unfortunately, there is still time to talk about the problems and the untenable situation. The Jobbik considers it important that the ambulances receive their respect and that their wages are adequate. We thank them for serving us all the days of the year, such as holidays, even Easter, Pentecost or Christmas. Respect the paramedics! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-182	Thank you, Congressman. Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech. But who's gonna get the hunter's loot? A few questions on the title of the Drava Valley High School College. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-19-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's educational policy measures do not spare the patina institutions of South Transdanubia, which have a great tradition. In my speech, I would now merely highlight the uncertain future of a school, the fears of students and their parents, the existential threat of a well-established teaching collective, and ask my questions about it, where they received lifelong learning and human travel, the children raised there. The institution, according to the criteria set by Albert Szent-Györgyi, that the school is designed to learn, to awaken a desire for knowledge, to learn the joy of well done work, to taste the excitement of creation, and to find the work that you will love, is a perfectly suitable, true apple mater. It is about the rightful owner of the Hungarian Hunting Medal, the Dráva Valley High School of Barcsi, which is one of the oldest Transylvanian schools in the country with rich professional traditions. They come from Somogy, Tolna, Baranya and Zala County with a lot of foresters and hunters, but due to the reputation of the school, students come even further. But this is no wonder, since the students here are generally able to renew, self-cultivate, formulate a positive vision, and receive a diverse, modern, child-centred education. After all, on the way to this goal, the institution is exemplary in taking on the tasks, ensuring that the student's person becomes complete. Theoretical education takes place in Barcs. The location of the traineeships is Centralbird, a practical educational base around the dormitory and the educational forest. Now, exactly, this main pillar of the school's existence, with an incredibly valuable background, hundreds of hectares of forest, full machinery park, college-based, highly qualified engineering-educator training in forestry and wildlife management technicians has been compromised. There has been considerable parental resistance to the idea, but he is also concerned about the future of the training and personal destiny of the engineer-educator who teaches many forestry and hunting subjects and who have significant educational and educational achievements. I ask whether they are going through their ideas that are not fully thought out or if they hear the voices of those concerned about values, traditions, established spirituality. I ask whether they will abandon this treasure or resist political interests and listen to common sense, they promise not to erase from the map the prestigious training of the institution that plays an important role in the spiritual life of the city. For those interested in forestry and hunting, such training will be advertised in the future, because it is not ensured that young people who come here will be able to complete their studies in the field of technics. However, there is no doubt about the future. Parents will not send their children to schools where there is no guarantee that they will be able to complete the training they have started. If he doesn't become a student, what about the midrigo complex built out of billion-dollar development money for forester training? And this issue is important not only for students, teachers, citizens of the local patriot Barcsi. Each taxpayer can rightly ask what concrete ideas a billionaire in wealth and its future exploitation would have to or should handle this wealth with the care of a good host. Unfortunately, there is no official concept in this case. If, as has happened to our many values, our plant, during and after the regime change during the free robbery, the destruction of the castle, the educational center, the multimillion-dollar machinery park, is due to a lack of thought, then that is also a big problem. [[14.50]] But if it doesn't belong to the students, and it doesn't belong to the food industry, then who's gonna own this billionaire fortune? Castle, in the middle of the forest, in the green heart of Pannonia, in the southern hunting paradise of Somogya. Please reassure those concerned about more than half a century-old institutions, they did not issue the launch permit to end up with the nation's wealth of some powerful, hunting romance-loving mustilovag near a meat pot. Will you continue to be one of them? Does the Central Magic College serve the interests of society, or does anyone want to lay their hands on it? I'd like an answer to that at some point. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the Group of the LMP, who has also applied for a statement after the agenda: That's one way to argue with the title "2" You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-19-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, You can hear the second part of my series. In my view, we are living in a time of distress, and Parliament's debate culture and quality are far below the minimum standards. I think that in such a time of distress, we should remember the politicians in whom there was standing and in whom there was determination and commitment to the cause. They must have made mistakes, too, because they were people, but they put real political performance on the table, changed our lives in some direction. I quote their words here in the Hungarian Parliament from week to week, and I will always smuggle some current political message into it, or as I did the last time I quoted Anna Kéthly's words, and for the current budget, I think I have given a very useful guide to the governing parties, but this time I will recall the words of Emmeline Pankhurst here in the Hungarian Parliament. This is a British politician, a political activist, who fought for women's political rights, specifically women's suffrage. In 1889 he founded the Women's Election Law League and in 1903 the Women's Social and Political Association. In 1999, the Times elected XX. One of the 100 most important people of the century, and it's not a coincidence at all, because he was the man who did a great deal to give women the right to vote, just like men. This speech, from which I would like to quote you, was given in London, in the Portman Rooms 1908. CHAPTER III on the 24th of October. It is the custom of our politicians of men to talk to women as if there were no subjects that could affect the fate of women. The order of things, they argue, is that women live their lives at home, in the family. They are interested only in caring for and raising children; nothing more can be of interest to a woman. Politics has nothing to do with such internal affairs, so politics does not belong to women. On the other hand, the laws determine how women should live in marriage, how to raise and train their children, and what future prospects they may have. All of this is governed by the laws of Parliament. As an example, let us look together at some laws and consider how they make sense from the point of view of women. First, let us take the law on marriage. These were created by men, but they provide for women. Consider how these paragraphs treat women as equals, how righteous and wise they are. What reliable material care can a woman receive in a marriage? There are countless women in this country who have given up their financial independence for the sake of marriage. Who can make it up to them for this loss? What assurance did they receive in the marriage that gave up their own economic independence? Consider the example of a woman who has gained considerable income from her work. They tell him to give up his profession if he wants to become a wife and a mother. What do you get in return? The law only provides for a married man to provide his wife with a place of residence, along with some kind of food and clothing. His convenience determines what kind of shelter it should be, what kind of food and what kind of clothing it should be. He can also decide how much money he spends on his home and how. Under the law, the woman has no say in these questions. You can't claim any small portion of a man's income. When it comes to a good man, a conscientious man, there can be no more serious problems. However, if he is not so conscientious, he may choose to starve his wife and then no one will help her. What the husband thinks is sufficient, the wife should be satisfied.--Keep pushing Pankhurst for the examples and continue to say: "The above examples have been selected from among the laws that men have created and affect the fate of women. I ask you, if women had suffrage, would such laws have been passed? I also have to quote Emmeline Pankhurst, because we are no longer fighting for suffrage here, but the saying that many of us are recalling to this day, I think it still stands up to this day, saying: "We are fighting for the time to come when a unborn little girl takes on life with equal chances as her brothers. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that politics still owes a lot to Hungarian women, so the social, economic and political situation in this country must also be changed. Currently 19 politicians work in the Hungarian Parliament, which is 10 percent of the Parliament. Currently, more Hungarian citizens are women than men, so to speak, there are 1100 women for 1,000 men. The fact is, fellow Members - and live with us in this respect Pankhurst's legacy - that Hungary will not be able to strengthen and change if women are still systematically excluded from the formation of power, because it is essential that there are enough women in Parliament to represent women, and we think that you should think deeply about this on the pro-government side. Thank you.
u2015-05-19-186	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the Group of the LMP, also applied for a post-meeting speech on the issue of environmental management training. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-19-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Two weeks ago, I raised my word that environmental management could continue training two flagships, agricultural engineering for environmental management, and engineering for nature conservation. I welcome the government's decision that at least one of these two decided to maintain the training of nature conservation engineers, but the fate of environmental agricultural engineers remains of concern. Once again, I would like to draw attention very briefly to the fact that this kind of thinking, which is what environmental management is, as a means of providing an alternative agricultural profit, adapted to landscape conditions, can be the key, the pledge that the small and medium-sized estate system, which the Government of Hungary has often said, can be strengthened. This is not primarily what teaches the large-owner, operational agriculture, which has been eliminated because of a number of indicators. However, I was very, very concerned to hear that, in addition to these two training courses, even one course, ecotoxicologist training, was blacklisted, and the higher education government also decided to abolish it. Ecotoxicology is a field of science that examines the effects of pollutants on the levels of organisation above the individual in terms of biological and social aspects. We are talking about a master's degree in chemicals, pesticides, medicines, industrial emissions that come into the environment, and the fate and regulatory regulation of other similar chemicals. This training started in 2008, 10-12-14 people attended it every year, but it is interesting that because of the very, very high training competence - there is only one place in the country at St. Stephen's University - there are academics and five MTA doctors involved in the training, and perhaps because of this, more than 90 percent of the students who graduated here can take up a fresh degree. This is interesting because the ratio is significantly higher than anywhere else. There are such trainings at international level, and there is an increasing need at international level to take into account the need for chemical safety, which we are now experiencing in many cases, even in fetus, and to pursue a more philanthropic, more cultured form of agriculture in the future. Let me say about the training that very high, outstanding scientific results are also being obtained. Of those who graduated here, only 1 out of 15 students received 1 first place, 2 second place, 2 third place and 2 special prizes for their scientific work in the 2015 OTDK. [[15.00]] This training can make a major contribution to a longer-term transition system of agriculture more human-centred in its efforts to preserve landscape diversity and to a more human-friendly, environmentally friendly and human-friendly training system. We think that the fact that 11-12 of every 14-15 people are already in the course of ecotoxicologist training and that the remaining 1-2 people will get a job very quickly afterwards shows the need to preserve this training in agriculture and agriculture, and that there would be a right for professionals with an ecotoxicologist degree to emerge. Apart from Szent István University, as I said, no such training takes place anywhere else in the country, while in other countries with similar large agricultural activities, such as Poland, 50-60 professionals are awarded a degree and are located in agriculture. It would be good if the policy responsible for higher education considered the trend of which, in the case of rethinking, it might be necessary to consider a continuation, and whether the agricultural engineering training for environmental management or ecotoxicology should be taken out of this blacklist, because obviously there are two training courses that Hungary's natural reserve of natural resources justifies essentially maintaining these. I believe that if we look very, very widely, we will certainly find other higher education courses where rational aspects can be taken into account, although it would be best not to have political decisions on this issue, but to have the market, society and students decide their fate. I am very pleased to note the continued nature conservation engineering training and, with respect, ask the government to consider the preservation of these two forms of training and, if possible, take steps to maintain them in the long term. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2015-05-19-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Bodó, from the Fidesz Group, also asked to speak after the agenda: a new opportunity - Hajdúszoboszló, a consumer-friendly city. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-19-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important for the government and the ruling parties that all citizens of our country live safely, whether it is physical or legal certainty. As our Fundamental Law emphasises, Hungary guarantees the conditions of fair economic competition. Hungary takes action against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. With this declaration in Hungary, consumer protection has risen to a basic level of law, which is very important guidance for all of us. In order to promote a consumer-friendly approach, to become general and to improve the situation of consumers as widely as possible, there is a need for programmes such as the "Consumer-friendly settlement" initiative with the involvement of the Ministry of National Development. The National Development Ministry evaluates the actions and attitudes of the municipalities that make consumers more satisfied and more effective in terms of their situation, information, services they use. The applications received will be examined by a review committee and, after the evaluation, a list of the municipalities proposed for the address "Consumer-friendly settlement" will be drawn up, which will be adopted by the NFM. This is the title of Szolnok, Pécs, Miskolc, Alsóörs, among others, and fortunately, there is a long list of settlements. Every programme, every initiative we take for our citizens is important to us. And now I am very pleased that the famous spa town Hajdúszoboszló in our constituency, which is also famous in Europe, wants to apply for the address "Friendly with Customers." This is important for us, because this means that the municipality itself considers consumer-friendly thinking as a priority and wants to meet the criteria set out in the tender notice. What are these? The consumer-friendly municipality shall give preference to undertakings which have been recognised by a consumer-friendly undertaking in the assessment of the tenders it has issued to commercial or service undertakings. It cooperates with associations representing consumer interests, promotes and supports regular consumer education in local public education institutions. At festivals or other events organised by it, the consumer-friendly settlement regularly ensures the relocation of the consumer protection supervisor of the NFM, the National Consumer Protection Authority and the County Government Office for professional information to consumers and local businesses. It supports and promotes the regular presence of consumer protection oversight of the NFM, the NFH and the county government office in local media. So there are a lot of tasks and a lot of requirements. I think that the efforts made by the settlements on their own initiative to make their inhabitants and those who come to them feel comfortable should be appreciated. As a member of the Parliament of Hajduszoboszló, I will continue and continue to support the good initiatives of the people here as far as I can and can. Luckily, I'm not alone in this job. I am very pleased to see the idea that the settlement would like to join the program of the "Consumer-friendly settlement" program. I trust the application will be successful. I know that this recognition is not only a prize but also a duty; it is a task that needs to be met in the long term, and that the consumer-friendly approach should continue to be promoted. We need to do this for the people of the city and the region, and it is very important to meet the needs of visitors - both domestic and foreign. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-19-190	Thank you very much. State Secretary Ákos Kara will respond to the speech after the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-19-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I welcome you and thank you for talking about improving the quality of life of Hungarian families and consumers in relation to the application issued by the Ministry of National Development on the subject of encouraging the development of settlements and businesses. From the autumn of 2014, the government will assess and recognise the measures and attitudes of the municipalities that contribute to the generalisation of the consumer-friendly approach between businesses operating in their territory and to improving the situation of consumers. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the award of the award can be obtained for a period of five years on the basis of the application. In the award of the title, priority shall be given to the municipality which meets at least five of the ten criteria in the tender notice and undertakes to fulfil them for the future. These include, among other things, the holding of regular consumer education in local public education institutions, the initiation of joint official controls to protect minors, the promotion of the regular appearance of the National Consumer Protection Authority and other government agencies acting in the consumer protection function, and the transfer of these experiences in local media, as well as at events organised by the applicant settlement, festivals and festivals, the location of the activities of the Government Office and the Consumer Protection Authority, i.e. the provision of the background. I think that this is a very important governmental, local municipal cooperation. And it is, indeed, as you say, that the tender will receive a favourable welcome between the settlements, and it has aroused a great deal of interest, as shown by the fact that so far several settlements have won the consumer-friendly title, besides Alsóörs, Veszprém, mentioned by you, it is true that Pécs, Eger and, among other things, Kaposvár have also won the consumer-friendly title. I consider it particularly important, Mr President, that Hajduszoboszló is also interested in the application as a gem of Hungarian medicinal tourism. This means for me, for us, that the city's leadership is committed to promoting and becoming a consumer-friendly approach. I believe that the consumer-friendly attitude shown by the settlement and the businesses in it will help to increase tourism, which will also contribute to the recovery of the local economy and the creation of new jobs. I commend you and the mayor, representatives, residents of the settlement and, of course, the businesses, who, in their view, all contribute to the possibility of winning the title of the "Consumer-friendly settlement" by Hajdúszoboszló. I think that Hajduszoboszló is taking a big step towards increasing the satisfaction of both residents and visitors to the city and creating an even nicer, more livable city. Although I must say to you that I think your city has a very, very good reputation, the city you represent has a very, very good reputation, and it is a real value-added community for the people who live there. [[15.10]] Honourable Congressman, On the basis of the above, the development portfolio responsible for consumer protection places great emphasis on spreading this approach and, of course, further improving the situation of Hungarian families, consumers, consumers and businesses. In this spirit, we welcome Hajdúszoboszló's application and, of course, the application of other Hungarian settlements. The tender condition and the label itself are available to everyone on the government portal. I would like to thank you with all due respect for the opportunity to discuss this subject in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-19-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar has also applied for a post- Agenda speech from Jobbik's group: Hungarian farmers lose hundreds of millions because of pointless, unfulfilled, over-bürocratic conditions. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-19-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to mention two distinct topics in my speech after today's agenda. However, these two issues are linked, as they draw attention to the problems of domestic agricultural management and agricultural governance. The Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, the MVH, has received numerous criticisms. Perhaps we can recall the times when the current majority of governments were still in opposition in Parliament for eight years, and almost all the speeches on agriculture and rural development were constantly criticised by the MVH and the then leadership, I would add: absolutely right. However, because of previous criticisms, we could have hoped that the situation would change substantially after the change of government, and that the MVH would start in the direction that all concerned farmers and all politicians concerned about the Hungarian countryside would have expected, i.e. to transform into a customer-friendly office helping farmers and not to continue to act as a kind of Hungarian blood-sucking office over the heads of farmers. Fortunately, the deadline for submitting a single application has now been extended and a few more days have been granted. This is indeed a great help for many, but at the same time we need to think about why this step was needed again. Meat cattle complain that for them, for example, a single application contains a pointless term. There are a lot of complaints coming to us about the fact that, because of a minimum fine, which does not seriously affect farming, and it is not that the family concerned would have tried to fool the state, really if we were to talk about a minimum fine, they are able to impose sanctions that would have been dropped from both area payments and other options for five years, which, I think, is extremely disproportionate, and there are no international examples of this being an agreed trend in Western Europe or neighbouring countries. Once again, we Hungarians are the ones who skin our own, and most of all we eliminate their life opportunities. The MVH continues to operate around the state, the deadlines are not respected anywhere, the backlog remains brutal. The problems related to undivided common land, which also affect the single application, concern a large number of farmers, and I referred to this in the title that, due to the tightened rules introduced last year, many of them are unable to compete on the green side of their undivided common land, which has been cultivated for many years, and are unable to submit it in accordance with the single application. It's enough to have a malicious neighbor, and it could prolong the whole process for months or even prevent it. I would like to finally get concrete answers on when the MVH will turn into a farmer-friendly organization, when its primary task will be to help these people, who do not want to be too complicated, only to do their job, and therefore do not constantly have to be afraid of punishment, but if there is a problem in that economy, then the MVH will be able to signal it intelligently, initially without any sanctions. We'd like you to move in this direction at last. I know that you are aware of the problems, because in opposition, as I said, many times you have rejected them; I am sorry that you have forgotten them. In other cases, however, it would be good to have a stricter MVH and agricultural management, for example. It is enough to refer to the reeds of Lake Fertő, which have already been mentioned several times, where it has been found that for years the current user has taken up the area that was purged in 2006, because he has not reaped the reed, and has taken on the EU support for this. It can hurt our country's ankles very badly, by the way, if this, say, smells in Strasbourg, and they start looking into it, so it would be good if the government finally took action in this case, and the hundreds of millions of forints of public money that they took illegally, would be recovered. These are the generalities that I wanted to tell you. The specific issues with which I am constantly bombing the government, both in my written questions and in my speeches, I am getting answers that show that there is a structural problem here, that we should start building from the funds, and that at the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development we should finally select our staff in a way that really brings matters forward. What we need is a qualitative change, not for kissers to get into greasy jobs. I would like to see professionalism finally overcome Hungarian agricultural management both at government level and at MVH level. I hope we get concrete, meaningful answers to these. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-194	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr György Czerván wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-05-19-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The title of your speech after the agenda. 100 million people are lost to domestic farmers due to pointless over-grabbed conditions. I would also like to reassure you and the stakeholders, farmers and farmers, that they will receive all available EU funds if the single application is now submitted in view of the extended deadline. I agree with you that the system is too bureaucratic, but there are EU rules. The common agricultural policy is the strongest economic policy in the Union, together with trade policy, and the rules are decided within the framework of the common agricultural policy, which is also the framework for sanctions. Of course, during the debate on CAP reform Hungary has made a lot of comments in order to make the system more favourable and simpler for Hungarian farmers and Hungarian farmers. We also have results, I think, but of course you know the proverb that the person who picks, so for the time being, the money is given by the Union and the majority of the rules are dictated by him. Another thing is that we are in constant consultation, so that Hungarian farmers can work and farm under favourable conditions as far as possible. The new regulatory system, which has just been launched in 2015, can be amended as soon as possible in 2017, so we are happy to take on life-like comments, as in practice we are faced with the problems faced by farmers. Even now, legislation has been brought out recently and has already been amended. I don't know if the news, the seed label, and the production-related subsidies had a condition for vegetables and industrial vegetables which simply couldn't, couldn't, and we have already made an amendment in order to meet the conditions in all respects. The system has become more complex, and this must be recognised, as there is now a multi-component aid scheme in place compared to the simplified area payment so far. Basic support, greening in itself had to be a complete innovation, a complete IT system, direct support for young farmers is also a new element, and we have enabled virtually all items of title to be available for production-related subsidies, and we are introducing the maximum 15 percent authorised by the Union in order to give Hungarian livestock farmers the best possible position. It is also good news, I believe that, compared to the 2007-2013 cycle, Hungarian agriculture will receive EUR 1.9 billion in support. This is roughly HUF 600 billion depending on the exchange rate; despite the fact that the EU's common budget is reduced by around 3.5 percent and the budget for the common agricultural policy is reduced by 11 percent, so Hungary is better off in these seven years. [[15.20]] I would like to inform Mr President that the application of the new system, despite its introduction, is proceeding at a very good pace, almost 172 thousand applications have been submitted by yesterday. This is 95 percent of the expected application number. So I'm sure all the right holders will be able to complete the legal, penalty-free application by 22 May. If we look at the state of the applications on an area-by-area basis, the application was submitted to 96 percent of the agricultural area. This is due, among other things, to the fact that village farmers have been very prepared, there are some 650-700 village farmers who have taken long courses and had to take exams. A significant part of the applications, almost 80 percent, are made by village farmers. The deadline amendment was necessary to ensure that the application could indeed be lodged safely and without penalty. The Union has allowed an extension of one month. Here there were basically two aspects that have been taken into account: security and the fact that the payment of the October advance is not prevented by the extended deadline, since here the MVH has to carry out different checks in order to pay the advance. I would also like to thank the villagers and MVH staff for their work, who have made it possible for single applications to proceed at this rate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-19-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a post-scheduled speech:. Where is the Roma caught up? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-19-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the question of where the Roma are being caught up must be asked, because many times we are trying and the government is trying to paint the situation that is not there. It is not because, if you think about giving sound titles to different programmes, such as the national framework strategy, the European Roma strategy, the programme called "The Bridge for Work," then you can see that they are excellent at saying good slogans, but they do not have the content of these programmes, even though they may be seen at some level in local settlements. Not to mention the work programme of the Bridge, which we know is the program of the National Roma Municipality, and if we are well aware of the press, the media's sources of news, an investigation has also been launched against the program, which we do not have a problem with, I think that all public funds must be scanned and found to be in order, then work can be done, or even if not, it must be stopped, but what if this program is stuck. Therefore, I would also like to ask non-existent members of government whether this programme can continue during the investigation period or even after the investigation, because it is very important that the programmes that have been published in the work programme will be realised at some level and that employment will be started. But if we look at the European Union's Roma framework strategy, which is linked to the name of Lívia Járóka, which, when it came to being, many of us expected, even opposition politicians to do something, even though we saw that something was going to happen, and that we had announced it before it, in the last eight years, the Decade of the Roma, and we have seen that perhaps there is a system at some level that can be seen in this one case. But we need to realize today, a year or two after the programme was created, that, rather than building on it, one programme on the other, and not only do they not consider this matter a national matter, but we do not see any progress at all. Because when we talk about it - four areas are identified by the two strategies: education, employment, housing and health, if we look at these four, then we can see that there is not only a halt in each of them, but a backward development, because in employment we see nothing but public employment. I would add that I would not like to say at any level that we do not need public employment. [[Károly Kontra: Kell!]] very important [[Károly Kontrat: That's right.]] a tool not to receive aid, as they say. And I agree with that. But the government doesn't provide the opportunity to break out of it. Which means that they will be given this opportunity for 3, 6 or 8 months or a year, but they will not be able to plan for the next two or three years, but will be put into the relief system and then back into the ranks of the public workers. It is therefore the government's responsibility to provide an alternative on this issue that tries not only to impose public employment on the Roma, the poor, then I say that it has done something, because then it can continue to think about what is happening in public employment. The same is the case in education in the four areas, because I see today that in 2009-2010 Zoltán Balog said with very loud words what it is like to take away any funds from the Roma public foundation, because we wanted to put a few million forints exactly elsewhere, and today we see that this public foundation was abolished in 2010-11. So, not only did they take a few million forints, but they abolished this public foundation, which, by the way, made the funds for Roma catching up transparent, and made education in particular transparent. Today we do not know how many Roma get scholarships, how many children get scholarships, and if they do, what progress can be made to get to, say, college or university, or become a good skilled worker. Therefore, transparency was abolished in 2010 by abolishing the public foundation. And I would just like to point out that the government must also consider whether it wants to continue to maintain a situation that makes scholarships inaccessible, or maybe revise what it has done, and recreate a public foundation, into which it puts visible resources, and those who take out the source can follow what results they can achieve. However, it is also true in health care that prevention is not an option for this group of people or for the poorer, because it cannot talk about prevention or prevention. Not to mention the fact that the health situation is such that it is very difficult to protect its health. As a result, I think the government has something to do to make sure something happens. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-19-198	Thank you very much, Congressman Teleki. Before we continue our work, I ask you, with respect, my fellow Members, to take a seat. Thank you very much. Their colleague, Dániel Z. Kárpát, has applied for a post-meeting address with the title "Dániel Z. Kárpát," Jobbik:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-19-199	Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday was a possible turning point: after several years of delay, after Jobbik's efforts, Viktor Orbán finally heard the common voice of the citizens of Debrecen and Jobbik, that the refugee hostel from which many people are free to move in and out of should, if necessary, be closed, and that the multi-annual bad practice should be changed. We are very sorry that, not after the thousands of signatures put down here, two or three years ago, they realized this, but only now, but because of the delay, let us not be the ones who are hurting, let us finally get into action. It can be seen that, although Secretary of State Kontra could not make any concrete statements today as to when the plan for closure would be implemented. [[Károly Kontrat: There was no such question!]] Instead, they were talking about negotiating with the European Union on certain issues, and I would recommend a question that should not be discussed, and this is the restoration of the independent border guard. I will tell you why we do not consider it sufficient for the police to have an integrated border guard under socialist governments to carry out its task: not because we were there and there personally; when the flood of refugees arrived in the region of Asotthalom, the flood of Albanians in Kosovo received the flood at the beginning of the year, three field guards and Mayor László Toroczkai. There were not enough border guards there, as there were no independent border guards, neither did the fair arrival of the arriving units to signal the thermal camera's monitoring room. And we have seen that you have encountered this problem within the territory of the European Union, but you have not protected the population of the farmland, anyone who wants has walked into the territory of the European Union. All of this is irrefutable. That is why we demand that an independent border guard be set up, even by amending the draft budget that has just been submitted, since 200-300 Africans are still arriving on a daily basis, and we can say that the Kosovo Albanians have previously targeted Germany, Austria, and the social systems there, but those arriving now would generally Europe, and would remain much more willing in Hungary than the Albanian regime in Kosovo could be said to be. And to put refugees here on quota: we are talking about 307 people, just 307 more than we should or should be talking about. In fact, Hungary needs to restore its population balance, it does not need economic immigrants, in addition to helping and supporting refugees who are really in need who are coming from real persecution, it is also our duty for dogs from a human point of view. [[15.30]] At the same time, immigration is the issue of emigration: if hundreds of thousands of people left Hungary, with a broken population balance, this would turn into a disaster, a situation where it would almost no matter who is on the government. Therefore, the figures are amazing: 50-55 years ago, more than 500 thousand children were conceived in a year; today, in some cases, this figure is hardly more than 100 thousand. It's an amazing contrast. The climate must therefore be helped in everything so that Hungarian women, mothers, dare to have children, and they want to stay here. This should also be reflected in the draft budget without delay: reducing the VAT on child-rearing items to 5 percent, reducing the total VAT on basic foods to 5 percent, and by means of a home creation programme that would make it available to all young Hungarians in a decade's perspective to acquire their own home, so that they have less chance of going abroad only because of the financials. On the other hand, what do we see in your budget package? Not a home creation programme, but, for example, a British correction or a British refund, of which more than 20 billion dollars of Hungarian taxpayers' money will support Great Britain's dairy workers, Great Britain's agricultural entrepreneurs; because they have partyed at Brussels and you do not strike the table, you will not discuss this again. So you can see that even more money is being given to Britain in this way than, let's say, the flask baby program, is being used to support artificial fertilization, even though it can't do without restoring our own population balance. Therefore, we would like to see three things reflected in this budget: reducing immigration, as far as possible - I say once again - helping those who really need it, but not accepting those who come from an economic point of view; secondly, slowing emigration, say, with a home creation programme or VAT cuts; thirdly, the restoration of the Hungarian population balance should be reflected in this budget package. As long as we do not see any trace of this, we have no obligation to call on you to take the right courage to stand on the side of the Hungarian people and to act on these three most important areas of national strategy, without exaggerating. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond.
u2015-05-19-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to repeat before this House that Hungary has a border guard: the border guards of the Hungarian police have been carrying out this task since 1 January 2008, since Hungary joined the Schengen area at the end of 2007. The work of the Hungarian border guard is recognised by Frontex, the European Union's Border Surveillance Agency, and I thank the staff of the Hungarian police, who carry out border surveillance tasks in order to protect the security of the Hungarian people. I would like to say that, to this end, we want to provide more resources, and this is reflected in the 2016 budget as we hope, and we trust - the other main issue is the issue of immigration in its post- Agenda contribution - that we can manage to establish in this House, after processing the responses to the national consultation that we have just launched, rules that represent the interests of Hungary. We have made it clear that Hungary's position is this: we want immigration and asylum to be a nation-state competence, Hungary itself could define the rules that it considers important for Hungary. The Prime Minister has made it clear, too, that the Minister of Interior has also made it clear in several forums that we do not support living immigrants, but those who are receiving political persecution in their country for their views or religion, denominations, other reasons, or from war zones, war countries, from war conditions, are accepted, because this is our basic duty of humanity. As far as the refugee camp in Debrecen is concerned, I answered my fellow Member's question here at the moment of immediate questioning. The problem so far was that he said that I would not give a concrete answer, and now he challenged or attacked the Prime Minister's statement yesterday. I would like to say that the Hungarian police have already done everything in their power to ensure the safety of the citizens of Debrecen; EU rules must be followed. We would like, once again, to say that the new rules on alien law enforcement introduced as a result of the national consultation could create conditions that would allow us to create stricter conditions for living immigrants; if we could create conditions for detention and create conditions that would better serve the safety of Hungarian people than at present. I ask the honourable Member, the Group of Jobbik, if you are serious about the issues that he has raised in his post- Agenda comment on this, to support the issues of national consultation in this regard, to support the legislative proposals to be tabled here in Parliament and to support the efforts that the Government will make to implement this, as it is a very big problem, as you have said. Allow me to give you an update. To date, 45,783 asylum seekers arrived in Hungary this year; the 2014 number was 42,777 persons for the whole year, so the number of these refugees has increased brutally. We need a national agreement on this issue, which is why we initiated a debate day in Parliament on 20 February, which is why a national consultation is now taking place. We hope that when we present the legislative proposals, we will be able to establish rules that meet the interests of Hungary. I ask the Member, if he is serious about what he has said, to support these proposals in Parliament. As regards support for childbearing, honourable Member, the number of budgets submitted for 2016 speaks for itself. The significant increase in the support of families with two children and the promotion of childbearing at all, the positive development of the rules of the child, the introduction of the diplomat are all designed to encourage childbearing and to halt the negative demographic process that has been characteristic of Hungary for many years, decades, and as a result, population loss. Favorable numbers have been launched thanks to government decisions over the last five years. We are confident that these numbers will improve further, and we will soon achieve that more people are born in Hungary than they will die, and this negative process will turn around. In this I ask that the 2016 budget, which is taking an important step to this end, be supported. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-19-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member of the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novák, also applied for a post-scheduled speech: Gergely Pongrátz died ten years ago, and we must continue our struggle. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-05-19-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 18 May 2005, the legendary commander of Corvin Street died in a heart attack in Kiskunmajsa, in the courtyard of the 1956 Museum of Kiskunmajsai, which he created on his own. In Bazilika, the capital, it was given farewell according to Armenian Catholic ritual, and then it was inaugurated during the Corvin. On this day, the Saturday annex to the Hungarian Nation announced the pitiful article of the great public outrage that came from the pen of András Kő, entitled "The One Who Never Reconciliated." Perhaps even his title is true, indeed he did not reconcile with compromise, unconceived compromises, as he was one of the radical, uncompromising resistances already in 1956. For a moment he did not believe the Soviets who promised to withdraw, and even the Hungarian political and military leaders who agreed with them were mistrusted by their kind, I might add. [[15.40]] They rejected any proposals aimed at disarming civilians, such as Maleter's, who would have sent the young people fighting during Corvin, the Pest boys. But, of course, his struggle began earlier. Born in 1932 in an anti-communist intellectual family. He had eight brothers, five of whom later fought with him during the Corvin. As he said in his book, Hungarian consciousness and the love of Hungarian homeland were instilled in us by our parents, and at the end of the thirties, Romanian children often hit us. His father was the mayor of Szamosújvár in 1940, the same year in his hometown Gergely witnessed the arrival and celebration of Hungarian troops in the restored Partium and North Transylvania. In 1945, the family moved to the truncated Hungary from the Romanian and Soviet troops. By the way, he remembered his father as saying, "When he saw the first Russian soldier, he vowed, as long as the Russians were here, he wouldn't shave. Buried with a breast-length beard in the April 56th. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then, of course, 1956 came. On the evening of October 29, Major General Gyula Váradi, with a Hungarian military delegation, entered the Corvin to negotiate an unconditional transfer of arms with the rebels in exchange for the Soviets' promised withdrawal. He threatened to face Soviet-Hungarian infantry attacks the next day if they didn't agree. Gergely Pongrátz and Jancsi with wooden legs were perhaps the most radical of the people who said that while there were Soviet troops in Hungary, we shouldn't even put down the weapon partially. They demanded the withdrawal of the Soviets, independence, the resolution of the Warsaw Treaty, the decommissioning of the ÁVH and a multi-party system. In this short speech, there is obviously no time to unravel his actions and exploits in the '56 period; I highly recommend his CV book. [[He's showing it to me.]] But it is also worth facing how he spoke after the change of regime. For example, this is what he said after the Nagy Imres' re-built: before the funeral, the New York Consul came to me in Arizona. He was my guest for three days. He convinced me to come home to Imre Nagy's funeral. I said, if all the executions are buried, I'll come. But they can bury those five communists without me, so I'm not coming. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This kind of uncompromising, uncompromising radicalism, loyalty to the legacy of the Pest boys, that's what characterized him. This led him to the flag-breaking assembly of Jobbik, where on 24 October 2003 he, struggling with tears, said: "For us, one foot is already in the grave. The torch is falling out of our hands. You must embrace the spirit, the ideals for which so many of our comrades died in 56. You'll have to carry it on. You'll have the future. We've only got a past. 'Gergely Pongráz,' said Gergely, and they have a glorious past, but we really must carry on the spirit they left us. For the past 24 years, the common shame of the MSZP and Fidesz governments is that there is still no history of state security, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and exclusion of party state leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions. So there's plenty of work to be done. And he had one. In the last days and years of his life, he said that the most important purpose of my life is the establishment and operation of the summer camp and chapel after the opening of the Museum of Kiskunmajsai. It'll probably be the building and consecration of the chapel for the last thing I've done in my life. At the end of my life. Mr Lezsák said in the book published in the responsible edition of Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. And we have a lot of work to do, because we are in front of the budget, which again does not include it, but we are going to propose again the state support of the museum and camp 56 which it founded. Finally, to conclude my speech with what Gábor Vona said at the last convention of Jobbik Youth [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] 15 March 2015: Before Gergely Pongrátz, everyone must give an account in the afterlife. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-19-204	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. Dear Parliament, Our work is done. I would like to inform you that the first day of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 26 May 2015. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:44 p.m.]]
