u2015-05-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 33rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and the general debate on the submission of the opinion of the State Court of Auditors follow. The bill is T/4730. T/4730/5. He may have been recognized. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today.
u2015-05-28-1	Dear Parliament, Today, the 14-hour timeframe is divided into 289 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 131 minutes for the KDNP Group, 160 minutes for the MSZP Group, 144 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 85 minutes for the LMP Group and 31 minutes for the independent Members. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to another day.
u2015-05-28-2	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets were delivered at the beginning of the general debate yesterday, and the debate continued with speeches by the keynote speaker and then by his representatives. Today, the groups, the independent representatives, the advocates invited by the minority committee, the MEPs, will speak. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor, Congressman. Congressman, please place your card.
u2015-05-28-3	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are in a position to report now, in the draft law on the central budget for 2016, that we will have significant additional resources, and how these additional resources will help create jobs and economic growth. EU funds contribute significantly to this, thanks to previous successful negotiations, Hungary will receive a total of EUR 34 billion, or HUF 12 thousand billion, of EU funds in the 2014-2020 programming period. As we have already declared, our aim is to devote at least 60 percent of development investment aid to economic development and job creation. This objective is reflected in the 2016 budget as well. The government has a strong focus on the use of EU funds, spending more than HUF 1400 billion on EU funds and investment next year, which amounts to 4 percent of GDP. This includes hundreds of billions of HUF for social, health and educational development. This also means that in the 2014-2020 development cycle, Hungarian businesses will be increased in their tender opportunities. Thanks to the transformation launched this year, applicants will be able to count on more transparent, simpler and rational tender procedures in 2016. We are prepared to use development resources in our country in a targeted and simpler way. Compared to previous practice, it is important that applicants can expect more transparent, simpler and rational tender procedures than before. One of the most important objectives of the transformation is to make the use of resources more concentrated and to set clear directions for businesses. EU funds and the related national share will continue to make a significant contribution to the success of the transformation of health, education and employment policies. These resources will also play a prominent role in transport, environmental protection and economic development, as well as in achieving territorial and rural development objectives. Following the record performance of last year, further investment will be expected, thanks to the increased drawdown of EU funds, as well as credit programmes supporting the SME sector. In line with Hungary's EU and domestic commitments by 2020, R &amp; D and innovation will have more than twice as much resources in the current development cycle as in the 2007-2013 period, with nearly HUF 750 billion in development in the sector over the next five years. In view of its role in sustainable growth, the development of the green economy, the increase in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources can be expected not only from the previous period, but also from the level required by the European Union. The prepared infrastructure projects - road, rail, urban transport, utility infrastructure and flood protection - will continue to be implemented in 2016 with outstanding grants of hundreds of billions of HUF. Significant resources will be allocated to developments in the education, health and social sectors and to the 21st EDF. In line with the challenges of the 20th century, the development of customer-centred public administration and efficient electronic public services. Contrary to the previous period, counties and cities with county-rights have a predefined development funding framework, which they had the opportunity to develop a programme, which will allow significant new developments to take place in 2016 of the order of HUF 100 billion. This will be complemented by domestic resources, which will also be significant in 2016. For example, the government has allocated more than HUF 60 billion of budget resources to the maintenance and operation of the road network and 160 billion for the implementation of the priority road projects. These amounts, together with a budget of 60 billion euros for the European Network Financing Facility projects, exceed the planned budgetary resources for this year by more than HUF 200 billion. [[8.10]] If we focus only on the new 2014-20 operational programmes based on the table below, we can see that the government plans the following payments next year, i.e. in 2016. In the largest operational programme for economic development and innovation, HUF 308 billion, 203 billion in the integrated operational programme for transport development, 120 billion in the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, 106 billion in the operational programme for territorial and urban development, nearly 53 billion in the operational programme for human resources development, 45 billion in the operational programme for public administration and public service development, and 32 billion in the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, and more than HUF 3 billion in the operational programme for people in need. As in previous years, a number of items will arrive in our country in 2016 with a significant amount of support that will not appear in the budget and will be used outside it. This is because these grants are not subject to compulsory national co-financing, and the scope of the beneficiaries, the determination of the amount of the aid is not the responsibility of the Hungarian authorities, since the eligibility criteria are determined by Community legislation or by the decision of the European Commission. Out-of-budget grants are dominated by area payments financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, with an annual EU budget of EUR 1274 million, i.e. HUF 392 billion, next year. Another direct support item for the implementation of the EU's common agricultural policy is so-called agri-market subsidies, of which part of internal market support is subject to national additions. Such is the, drink milk, program, the school fruit program and national programme. Under the agri-market support heading, EU funding of HUF 16 billion is expected, with a national addition. Other grants directly from the European Commission are also not included in the central budget, of which the resources available under the R &amp; D and the various education programmes are to be highlighted. Of course, Hungary will continue to contribute to the EU budget in 2016, in line with EU membership. The estimated amount of the EU budget, which is over HUF 300 billion, can be determined in a very precise manner, but this is a fraction, as you can see, about 20-25 percent of the funding received. Following the completion of financial consolidation, Hungary can now move more towards European catch-up. Development policy, which can take place in Hungary with significant EU resources in the period 2014-2020, has a role to play in catching up. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-28-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-28-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With regard to the 2016 budget, I would like to share some points in the context of national security services. I would like to start by saying that the primary task of a responsible government in the security situation in which Europe, the whole world and Hungary, are to take a responsible decision and present a budget, assessing security risks and their growth. In the first place, I'd like to say that the government hasn't been very successful. Far be it from us to create alarm and panic in the country, but the changes that have taken place in the security of Europe and of Hungary in it over the past few years tell all responsible politicians that the budget must be planned in this area with particular attention, since the budget sets out the framework for the scope for those bodies, including the national security services or the Counter-Terrorism Centre, to which they will be able to manage these security challenges. If we look at the events in the Middle East, look at Ukraine, look at some of the Balkan countries, less than 200 kilometers from us, we find that Hungary and the whole of Europe face unprecedented challenges, the greatest challenge facing Europe and Hungary in the world after 1945. With these unfavorable processes, which the government has partially culminated in the involvement of the Hungarian Parliament against the Islamic State in Iraq-Kurdistan, Hungary's security risk has increased disproportionately. We do not dispute the need to take action against the Islamic State, and it is right for Hungary to take part in this, but the form and quality that we are doing will cause a disproportionate increase in safety risks. If we look at these aspects and compare them with the individual elements of the 2016 budget, we can see that those bodies, including the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Constitutional Protection Office, the National Security Service and the police themselves, are not aware of these challenges. First of all, since counter-terrorism is primarily the responsibility of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Socialist Party's opinion on this is traditionally known, and I would not necessarily like to worry about the budget of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, yet we say that the security of all of us in this country depends partly on their work, and in this connection we see that their budgetary resources have not increased but rather decreased. This raises questions in this situation as to whether this is the right thing to do. With regard to the Constitutional Protection Office, it can be seen that although its budget is increasing and, by the way, quite rightly, it performs new tasks relating to the amendment of the National Security Act, which concern controls and the public sector, these are the right objectives and tasks, yet the question should be asked whether the screening of those working in a confidential position alone is the important task for which such a significant additional resource should be provided. It is right in itself that the budget of the National Defence Service is also increasing. Here, however, we need to consider precisely what the priorities are, and I think that the security of the whole country and the external threat that terrorism represents, this must be the first priority, everything must come from this point of view. We see that the National Security Service, which practically provides technical assistance to the entire state in such tasks, has practically little increase in its budget. The question is whether this challenge, which the country is facing, will be enough for the specialist service. In short, in the military area, we know that the mission-expedition activity that Hungary is carrying out in Iraq-Kurdistan is a major challenge; we are involved with armed soldiers, if not with primary combat forces, but with armed soldiers. In this context, the pressure on the Military National Security Service, the challenge, tells us that the HUF 139 million and undefined additional resource that the Military National Security Service receives raises the question whether it is absolutely sufficient for such a mission-expeditional activity to carry out the exploratory work that the Military National Security Service is required to carry out. We also see that the police budget, as border police are integrated into the police force, and the police's tasks to this effect, which concern border protection, are, of course, linked to the security of our country and to terrorism within it, and the police must cooperate with national security services and the Counter-Terrorism Centre, as if the police were not aware of this by the government. It is not that we think that the government would deliberately not want to see that our country's security is facing new challenges, and perhaps we should have planned this budget with greater care in this area, so I do not think that willful, perhaps too optimisticly, to appreciate the change in the security of our country, and to think too optimisticly that because we are not a primary target, as the president of the National Security Committee, I can say that we are not a priority target in terrorism, but I think that the change of the terrorist doctrine that has occurred and that makes virtually a target of any rule of law that refuses to cooperate with the Islamic State in any way - fortunately, the overwhelming majority of the world is like this - this - this security challenge says that excessive optimism does not go to the detriment of the country's security. [[8.20]] Overall, as if the government did not understand this change, which takes place in the world, in Europe and in Hungary. We think it's a government's job to hope for the best, but to prepare for the wrong. The bad is here not far from us, because we can see that these terrorist cells can be found in the Balkans, 150-200 kilometers from us, and there is a pipe bomb passing through the country unsolicited, as they say. I therefore think that the government should consider and reconsider whether this budget meets the criteria of prevention and careful planning in relation to national security services or, more broadly, national security, because the country's national security is guaranteed not only by national security services but also by other organisations cooperating with them. In fact, in the broadest sense, the whole population must cooperate in this, as this terrorist-doctoral change has occurred, saying that we all have a role to play. This budget will do this task only partially, too optimisticly, taking into account the optimal of possible scenarios. In all other cases, greater resources should have been allocated to those bodies that guarantee the safety of all of us, our children. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-05-28-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech is coming from the Group of the KDNP Group, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-28-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Predictability is a very important value in the lives of man, a family and a society; predictability, which means security, means calmness, planning tomorrow. On the other hand, unpredictability creates uncertainty, and these two together cause a lot of stress in one's life. In the time of a government for which man is the most important asset, it is also an extremely important aspect to have a stressless, predictable life. This predictability is served by the fact that, so far, in an unprecedented way, in May, the government submitted the Budget Act to Parliament. Of course, we can be concerned, and some do so, that we are still more than half a year away from 2016, which is covered by this budget bill, but these concerns have been somewhat said. Predictability will mean that, after the adoption of the Finance Act, both the country and the municipalities and the institutions will be able to plan their next year in time, and that the unblessed state of a municipal body will end in April or May to accept and plan the life of its own settlement and institutions. Therefore, on my behalf, I can only thank and praise you for this intention and for the act that the government has prepared the budget law so early. Obviously, in the six months remaining, there cannot be an event that overrides this law. Therefore, I find the voices that one party, in particular one of the opposition parties, expressed yesterday during the main speeches to be completely unfounded. If, don't give, God, something unexpected happens that overwrites one or another number of budgets, there will be time to correct it. I would like to refer to yesterday's speech by the President of the State Audit Office, in which he made it clear that the vast majority of the budget figures are well-founded, in relation to one or two items, he said that the calculations are partially justified, but, as I said, there will be an opportunity for correction if this is necessary. However, to believe in the validity of this budget, we also need trust. This confidence has been served by the government over the past five years with a series of actions that has highlighted Hungary from its low point of view in 2010, bringing its economic performance and its financial position back to the forefront of Europe, and we can rightly be proud of that. These five years are enough ammunition not to worry about the budget being prepared so early. For my part, I wish this to continue. The budget, as we heard yesterday, is in the best interest of the families, since the family provides the framework for the lives of a person who provides his life. Therefore, both tax reductions and a series of different measures are designed to improve the lives of families in the next period. We heard the call from Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga yesterday in his ministerial expo yesterday that the budget is forced to manage disciplined and responsible and creates the possibility of doing so just by making the figures known so early. It is also important to note and reiterate that it is no longer the case that development can be guaranteed by credit, as our ancestors have done in the past, often ruining, often making the performance of a sector equal to zero, but rather the economic development that has been produced in recent years by the people, citizens and citizens of Hungary, and so the budget is rightly counting on 2.5 percent economic growth. When the budget law is negotiated by Parliament, we hear a lot of numbers. What is more, we tend to open the tables in the first place and look at the numbers, and we look at how much more or how much less there is for each sector, for each area, for each task than it had previously been. The budget law is much more than that, because it sets out the objectives, the priorities that are of prime importance to the political leadership of the country and which serve the well-being of the people. I would just like to mention a few areas, since the entire budget assessment was made yesterday by our key speakers, including the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party. First of all, I mention families as the most important value, and as the Minister of Finance and the Minister of National Economy mentioned yesterday, and we know that this budget is for the budget of families, for their safety and for their predictable lives. Well, the facts are well known, but it doesn't hurt to list them again and again. One percent reduction in personal income tax is positive for all working, searching families, in a good sense. Reducing VAT, thinking about pork, can again be a very significant savings for families, since pork consumption is known to be quite widespread in Hungary. Extending the feeding of children is a huge step. In recent months, the poverty of children, the hunger of children, in an exaggerated way, and most of the time unproven, has been said among the walls of Parliament. Nevertheless, the Christian Democratic People's Party also knows that there are many poor families where the eating of children is a problem. Therefore, it is a very important step that last year's budget for the next year from 61 billion raises the amount of children's meals to 71.7 billion, so that no child starves. [[8.30]] I would add, of course, that the increased amount will not be enough if every parent, every family does not do its utmost to ensure that when the child is not in a camp or school, he does not starve, and spends the thick portion of the family's income to enable children to feed properly. The responsibility is therefore common. It seems to me that this budget ensures the responsibility of the state in an appropriate way, and in other ways, as we have seen, it helps the situation of families. The extension of free textbooks also improves the situation of families. I would like to mention here that this is also a process that proves that our government has been consistently pursuing a policy to improve human quality of life for five years, since the gradual introduction of free textbooks was laid down in the Public Education Act adopted in December 2011. We are now at the point that, from September 2016, in the lower school, every child will have access to textbooks for free, which is a significant savings for families, and naturally the benefits will remain in the upper classes, so children of poor families will still receive the textbook for free. After the process of the law is ensured, in the coming years we will gradually get to the point that the textbook supply will remain completely free. Family life is also affected by health care, for illness is a part of our lives, and when there is a disease in the family, it costs a lot of money. We are well aware that funding for health care costs huge amounts and is difficult to solve. However, it is a good thing that this year's budget is spending 50 billion forints more on health support than it is this year. We know that this amount is not enough, but we also know where we started in 2010, where we came from, and so far we have so much. "Stand as long as your blanket is worth," says the proverb, "so hopefully this extra HUF 50 billion will be enough to heal the most painful wounds. Public education is closely linked to the lives of families, because where there is a family, there is a child, sooner or later it will end up in kindergarten and school. The Public Education Act adopted in 2011 introduced a measure which will also be fully implemented in 2016 so that every child aged 3 years goes to kindergarten, which will be mandatory for him. With this, we have very important educational and catching up goals. Well, in order for the kindergartens to function, to have them, we also had to subtract budgetary considerations. This law will do that. It increases the support of local governments by about HUF 10 billion, which are known to be the largest kindergarten keepers and private kindergartens and church kindergartens. The kindergarten building program continues, as well as the gym and swimming pool building program, which again serves the healthy life of children, families, people and the growing generation. One of the most important positives, although this did not surprise me, and I hope that no one, because it proves the consistency of the government, has been pursuing its consistent policy for years, that the budget also has the guarantees for continuing the teacher's wage increase. I remember well the days, weeks when we discussed the Public Education Act and later legislation here in Parliament, and how many doubters, how insecure, how much incomprehensive opinions, how many questions and comments we heard from opposition lines; why we needed this, where we had money for this - indeed, we could even hear it in some places from pro-government lines. Well, in 2013, the pedagogical career began, the unprecedented teacher's wage increase series started, which each teacher, teacher and teacher felt, understood and received positively, and it should not only be about educator's wage increase, but also about the rating system that is an integral part of the teacher's career, and it shows that every participant in public education and education must make constant efforts towards quality work. The budgetary implications of this can be accurately read out of the budget law. In September 2016, the salary of each teacher, teacher, kindergarten teacher is again increasing, and there is the amount that goes with additional ratings, which also has financial implications, since the wages of qualified teachers are significantly higher than those of unqualified teachers. This is extremely important, because in recent decades, every player in our political life, public life and private people has agreed that in order to be a good school in Hungary, teachers must be paid much better, because the most important condition of a good school, its guarantee - and apologies for the expression, included - is a teacher who does not have daily problems with living. With this increase in wages, which started in 2013 and will continue in 16 and 17 we have come to the point that there is no teacher who says that he cannot make a living on this salary. There has also been a welcome increase in the number of teachers and teachers in the last one or two years. Thus, there is a strong link between the fiscal law and the certainty that the performance of the Hungarian school system will also improve. Here I mention that again, the diligence of Hungarian workers and Hungarian citizens is praised by the many, many plans that are proven in the fiscal law. These career models will be extended to other spheres, in particular the social sector, the public service and law enforcement workers, who can all gradually face wage increases after teachers to whom I talked about raising wages. There is still a need to talk about their maintenance and operation in relation to the institutions - the public education institutions, of course. Increasing public engagement is an important government goal, which the Christian Democratic People's Party supports with full conviction, since this process began in our time and the body that we call the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre has been established, which in many cases takes on both maintenance and operation. Well, there have been numerous criticisms of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, although it wasn't the Centre itself, and there is a problem where there is trouble, it's not general, but it happens because of the lack of budgetary conditions. That is why it is welcome that in this law, the funds allocated to support the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre have also increased. Whether it is sufficient or not, the time will show, but I would like to quote yesterday's words from Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, which were said here in Parliament. He said so, and he is right, that only in the case of appropriate structural measures will the amount provided by the budget to KLIK be sufficient. Therefore, the budget law also accelerates the process that has started happily, the structural transformation of the institution support centre called the KLIK, and calls for rational, conscious, disciplined management. But I would like to mention that it has not been since KLIK's existence, there has not been a situation where a school, a college, would have failed, would have collapsed, should have been closed because there wasn't enough money. The system has always provided additional channels that bridge the difficulties. [[8.40]] However, we also know that many unexpected expenditures have been incurred by this institution, which could not be foreseen, and therefore could not be planned. I would like to express my hope that in 2016, these operational complaints, which resulted from late payment of accounts, long-term bureaucratic measures, will cease to exist the following year, in 2016, and we will finally get to the point that the positives, the generalised positives, will not be covered by the problem of functioning here and there. In the Budget Act, the collaborators also took good account of the international situation that today characterizes our world, including Hungary. There has been a threat to Europe and to the world, which has serious financial implications, as protection and pre-action must be prepared. Therefore, I am pleased to note that the funding of the National Defence Fund has tripled in the budget. I've been speaking here for a long time, so forgive me for this - I'm approaching my final thoughts. This law has also convinced me, this bill, that the measures which the government and parliament have taken in various areas, when it comes to law, have been passed in recent years, will be carried forward by this budget law. It proves that this is a continuous, continuous political work, economic and policy work that again serves the predictability, the security that I spoke about in my introductory thoughts that we need to know about security, predictability, what we want, where we are going, what our goals are, what tasks we are putting before ourselves, and what financial means we have to implement them in time. Despite any remaining question marks, the draft budget law provides for this, which I can only congratulate the apparatus of the Ministry of National Economy, and the adoption of the draft law is, of course, supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-8	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Krisztina Morvai, Member of the European Parliament, asked for a speech. The Member is speaking out of the time frame of the Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-05-28-9	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, In this budget debate, so much has been said about the interests of children and families, that as a criminal lawyer, I thought I would like to present some aspects of the lives of children and families that I think you should know. I am not doing this for my own benefit, but with the request that, if the country can produce such good economic results as it has been said in this budget debate, it should not reduce the budget of the child protection system and its employees, but, on the contrary, increase it radically. The child protection system is failing, he's in a lot of trouble. I am now going to quote you from final judicial judgments, and I hope that you will win the attention of my fellow Members. About 8,000 seriously abused or neglected children are dealt with by family care professionals and other child protection professionals who currently earn about 80,000 forints. I would like to give you an insight into what matters you're dealing with, and I would like to emphasize, in the order of about 8,000. I beg your pardon that there will be expressions here that are not common between these walls. All you have to do is listen to me for about ten minutes while I'm speaking. I would ask you to think that the children involved had to suffer all this, and that this is the day-to-day work of family caregivers working with them, to deal with such children and vulnerable family members in such a situation. So these are details of final convictions, I've brought about 15 of them with me, and we'll see how much time I have, and I'd like your attention. During the training and fighting with children - quoted in quotes - the accused told the children that they would not become human, genetic waste, rot and die. In the midst of quarrels with his partner, S.K., he often spit on and assaulted him in a way that slapped him in the palm of his hand or hit him in the head or squeezed his face and chin. These abuses were also reported in several cases by underage children around the age of ten, and there were cases where the two - year - old child witnessed such an argument. Then she ran to her mother and pressed her feet and cuddled with her. Because of the defendant's behaviour, S.K.'s victim lived almost constantly in fear, as well as in fear and fear of the victim's children, which was seen in their school record and behavior. The following is the case: after the transfer, there were cases where the defendant attempted vaginal intercourse with the physically undeveloped ten-year-old victim, but failed to enter. Then he rubbed his penis against the victim's thighs and, when satisfied, let his semen on the child's feet. The defendant was usually intoxicated when his daughter was sexually assaulted. Because of the defendant's regular drinking, the minor child moved to the third room, where there was no heat. The defendant continued sexual harassment of the minor child, went into his room and harassed him there, but he also attacked him in the kitchen. There were times when the defendant ordered his daughter to watch a porn film recorded on a DVD record in his presence. When the ten - year - old girl turned away, she told her to watch, to know what to do and how to do it. The underage child, who was physically undeveloped and with night-time urinary disturbances, became isolated from the sexual harassment of the accused, and since he was only five years old when he was placed with the accused, and there was no woman outside of him in this truncated family, he did not realize for a long time that the harassment of the accused was not natural. He also thought that because he didn't have a mother, harassing the defendant was part of the education, and he thought that he had to replace his mother. In the next legal case, it's a two-year-old child, who eventually suffered life-threatening injuries from prolonged, regular abuse - a small episode of it. During this period, while living with the parents of the second accused, there were several occasions when the primary accused shouted at the young child or tried to force him to enforce his will. This was the case when he forced the child to sit in a potty for a whole day in order to achieve house cleaning. The poor thing didn't almost die from this, but from the systematic abuse, but here you can see how psychological terror and physical abuse are related. Another case of law: the defendant, with his attitude of repeatedly speaking in front of his daughter, kills his mother, and undressing himself in front of the child, stabbed the mother all over the body, seriously violating his parental duty, endangering the moral and emotional development of his child. After the crime, Witness 1 had to be admitted to psychiatric treatment. Let's see what other issues child protection deals with. When victim number 1 became a student, the second accused regularly carried the six-year-old child to school in dirty clothes. He did not receive adequate food, so he repeatedly asked strangers on the street. The children's regular meals - this is later part of the sentence, but they still have not been secured in the same case - have also occurred when the second-rate defendant did not go for the free meal provided for in the context of the summer meal of the needy families. Victim number 1 was not sent to daycare by the defendants, even though he would have received preferential treatment there. As a result, both victim number 1 and victim number 5 were regularly interrogated on the street. Because of hunger, children occasionally ate their own stools. It is clear that the support for children's meals does not solve, for example, the problem of these children, because child protection is needed here. In order to do so, it is necessary to raise the salary of family care workers who currently earn 80 000, who are involved in these matters, so that they do not leave the country, and that there should be enough family care, family care, and child protection professionals. The defendant ran after his wife, the victim, in another legal case, and then caught up with him after about 15 meters, and pulled him back by his hair. Then, from behind, with his right hand, he pressed the victim's head to the left, and then to the right, he made a cut on each side of his face. Meanwhile, the accused's younger six-year-old child, clinging to his father's feet, tried to protect his mother. [[8.50]] The defendant then fled the scene and placed the knife used to commit the crime in an unknown place. The following is the case: in their home, the accused stepfather regularly spoke obscenely to the child F. A. - I'm sorry for the expression - he called the child a retarded motherfucker, a retarded motherfucker and a parrot, and even...
u2015-05-28-10	Madam Congresswoman, I ask you with respect, even if you describe cases of law - because there are many people in the country who hear this broadcast - do not, if possible, use the terms which we do not otherwise use in this House. Thank you. [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is real!]]
u2015-05-28-11	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to remind my fellow Members - of course I follow Mr President's request - the difference is that you can do this, but a small child who needs to hear this every day cannot say: please stop now, dear parents, these terms. I'm telling you, I'm not reading these for my own good, but because I'm asking you to raise the budget for the child protection system. I hear that there are more than the Members' threshold for the right to sexual abuse, of which, by the way, there are about 500 final judgments per year, so there are not one such case per year, but at least five hundred cases per year, which is the tip of the iceberg, because there is enormous vision here. So I'm gonna skip the ones where it's rape, where it's possible to harm children in kindergarten. His direct eye and ear witnesses were just before the family quarrel, children, underage K.V. and minor K.F. entered the large room only after that, when the National Rescue Service workers treated their mothers, but the police removed them from the big room. Here, in the mother's injury, the father committed an attempt on manslaughter. About 20 years ago, the defendant regularly took sedatives - a mother - especially a medicine called Xanax. His despair grew when one morning he woke up to his father's drunken quarrel with his mother - the grandparents - determined to commit suicide, but first he killed the two little girls. I'm sorry to put such a burden on you. He collected all the official IDs and documents of his and the two girls, and then packed a blanket, a bottle of orange soda, and chocolate cereal. Then he cut a string from the courtyard, the outbuilding, and set off with the two small children to carry out his plan. On the way out of the village along the forest lane, the defendant stopped in an abandoned place, laying the blanket on the side of the road on the edge of the forest lane, on which he sat the children, and tied their attention with food and drink. While the children ate sitting on the blanket, he set fire a few steps along the road, burning everything. Meanwhile, he told the children that they would soon die, all together, and all of them would move to heaven. The childhood victim 1 stated, hearing this, that he did not wish to go to heaven, that he would still want to live on earth. The two little girls began to cry, but the defendant did not stop his plan. He pulled out one of the strings and hung it on a tree branch in a smaller opening of the forest band. The other cord was cut short, and the childish victim, who was sitting on the blanket, reached 1st, wrapped it around his neck and pressed it with a little force. The little girl didn't defend herself, but she was willing to cry and bear the grip of the cord. On the blanket, the other little girl, a childlike victim, sat second, and she looked at her brother and her mother crying. In the end, they were saved because the grandmother arrived at the last minute. Hopefully, the family care provider who earned 80,000 forints also came to the family's aid in this case. I'm sorry, I wanted to tell you a lot more, but I don't know all the 8,000 that the child protection system is dealing with, of course. However, he would do even more if it were possible, infrastructure, adequate income conditions. Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to speak on such a subject. Thank you, too, for listening with patience. I very much ask that there be agreement between the parties on this subject, initiative and vote that the child protection system is much more strongly supported in this budget. Children deserve it, and child protection professionals working with them deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-12	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Font Sándor, Fidesz Group, has called for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-28-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have had a number of debates on Hungarian agriculture, even with reference to the budget, and we have followed in particular opposition criticisms, which saw the death of agriculture practically every year in the budget currently submitted. I would not be surprised to hear something similar in the midst of further opposition speeches. At the same time, what happened to agriculture? Thank God what has stabilized with the Hungarian economy as a whole: after 2010, and the measures that we believe have served the development of agriculture have fulfilled the expectations attached to it. Of course, there is a factor in agriculture, this weather, nature, that we cannot control. This was the only factor, the only factor, the weather blows, which caused agriculture to fail to deliver the results that we had hoped for in some years. For example, the year 2012. In 2013, we said that agriculture could bring a very good result. That's what happened. At that time, the opposition criticized the fact that it was easy to compare the great result of the year 13 to the bad result of the previous year. However, not only in the light of the reference numbers, the result of the year 13 was very significant, but also in terms of the total weight. Then they said that budget 14 would be a devastating budget for agriculture, that it would not be possible to further increase the year 13. Now we know that the year 14 has lied to all opposition criticisms, and after the budget we believe is well-founded - but let's add that in this case the weather factor has also helped, let's not forget - the year 2014 has brought results beyond 2013. Hungarian agriculture faces many structural dilemmas and problems. One of them is, of course, whether we are able to move the quantity of basic product produced to the processing industry - which we are very good at producing - especially those produced by arable crops. The second is whether agriculture is in place on the issue of employment, whether the labour force employed is really what agriculture can handle under normal production conditions. The third part is the eternal debate as to whether the first processing plant, I call it, is of the right size for livestock production, whether all means are made available to livestock farmers or whether there is further development. Thus, manufacturing, animal husbandry and employment have become key issues in agriculture. I can safely say that every year of the past period, we have received more and more encouraging results. I see that the measures taken have been effective, for example by trying to work towards the development of the pig sector through the appointment of a special Commissioner for Ministers. I do not even mention the other livestock areas, since stabilisation was very important in the cattle and sheep areas, on the one hand, and our development, even during the crisis; pigs are often an uncertain factor. There are problems with the manufacturing industry, because, as a result of a privatization based on unfortunately incorrect logic, they destroyed our global food processing base around 1990-94-98. The reconstruction and excitation of this is not simple, but there seems to be a significant shift in rural development resources and other development resources for entrepreneurs. Of course, we should not hope that global processing centers of the same magnitude as the canned plants that operated on Nagykőrös or Kecskemét during the period of socialism, where all the fruits of Hungary have been delivered, will be rebooted, but the plants that are started by planters, product sales organisations, and therefore by alliances, from which there are already quite a few, will be processing plants, which can cover this area. [[9.00]] And it is obvious that another critical part of food processing is livestock production and meat and food processing based on it. There is hard competition here, and this is also reflected in the subsidies, because we are one of the countries that add the largest national resources to vulnerable sectors every year, which is 70-80 billion in volume, and is currently available in the budget. The third big leg, the question is employment. We believe that agriculture could help very significantly the national economy problem here. A general problem, though, is the issue of Hungarian employment, we can make significant progress in the last 4.5-5 years, but perhaps agriculture can be the one that can help us do that. How? In our view, it is not possible to maintain a model of arable, large-scale crop production that does not use labour. It proves this - I do not want to open a debate with this, but - on the one hand, the model of the Land Traffic Act authorising limited land ownership. In our opinion, however, we need to develop the labour-intensive agricultural sector in this area. This is the production of fruit and vegetables, the cultivation of foil plants, greenhouses and plants, the cultivation of propagating material. This has a significant resource and an opportunity to increase employment. This employment area needs to be strengthened, which will be addressed by the forthcoming proposals. The year 2016 will be the first full year when the funds made available to Hungarian farmers must be used in accordance with the new EU conditions. In a significant rural development and a significant direct support system, subject to conditions, but let me mention, for example, that the EU, too, seems to think, as we do, that it provides a resource per hectare for the handicraft-intensive fruit sector. This year's deadline for the submission of applications, which has just expired, was when these new funds could already be requested. We cannot avoid critical areas, such as the dairy sector. I would add that outsiders understand that this is not a Hungarian problem. The European Union has decided to release so-called milk quotas. This creates a very difficult, difficult situation, especially for countries that have subsequently joined the Union, who have far less capital power, infrastructure and production factors than the countries that make up the Union, who have received very significant resources in this area alone for tens of years. So I know, I know, that the debate has reopened, what will happen to the dairy sector. This has been a very serious problem for the predecessor governments, but the case could be dealt with. We are facing a serious challenge, we cannot escape this issue, but I see that the dairy cow sector, which is the most at risk of this issue, may still be able to cover this issue with an additional HUF 50 billion. Of course, this large sum of HUF 50 billion is made up of several points, which means a liter-based support for milk production and milk. Overall, our 2016 draft budget, if I look at the total figures, continues to show the development that we started in 2010. The support for the agricultural chapter is not large-scale, but it is about HUF 5 billion higher than in 2015, so its total budget, including direct support, is a few billion more than in 2015. The year 2015 showed a significant increase in support compared to 2014, so if I consider agriculture to be able to maintain the stability it has achieved, it is certain that it will be able to maintain it. And if the areas that I mentioned - employment, the expansion and the possibility of manufacturing - can be supported by the use of European Union funds, then I claim that the year of 16 is also a significant factor in the added value of Hungarian GDP, not counting the weather factor, because we can't do anything about it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group. I give you the floor.
u2015-05-28-15	Dear House, I will now address areas related to education and health. However, before I go to the evaluation of next year's budget expenditure on education, it is worth a brief review of where we have come to this point. If we look at how much Hungary spent on education ten years ago, on the public expenditure on education at that time, we have not been at all bad compared to the European average, and indeed. Of course, compared to the Scandinavian states leading in education policy, we had a significant lag, but, unfortunately, because of the austerity that began in the 2000s, we also started to break down from the European average. The withdrawal of funds from education did not start in 2010. Socialist-liberal governments started it, so by 2010 we were below the European average, as far as education expenditure is concerned. However, after 2010, the situation was undeniably deteriorating. So much so that the previous GDP-to-GDP ratio of around 6 per cent fell close to 5 per cent by 2013. There wasn't even a country where they wanted to save money on educational expenditure by spreading the crisis, because everyone but us knew that investing in education could get out of a crisis in the long run. In Hungary, even if it is finally out of the crisis, it carries on disadvantages due to the downsizing of education, which reduces the chances of our long-term success to a very serious extent. The reduction of 1 percentage point of GDP represents several hundred billion HUF withdrawal. This amount is also lacking in the maintenance and operation of both public education and higher education to date. Since 2008, neither public education nor higher education workers' wages have increased, and before the elections, teacher wage development has finally started. In fact, the increase in education expenditure in recent years is entirely due to the wage increase of teachers in public education, while public education still lacks HUF 200 billion and about HUF 50 billion in higher education. But replacing this total of HUF 250 billion would only be enough to return to the level before 2010-2008, and then we would only be scraping the European average from the bottom. The restrictions have stopped over the last one or two years, and this must be confessed, but if we look at net expenses only, then we can establish this saying. Last year's expenditure on education has already been frozen, and it seems that what we feared was that they wanted to keep funding for education at a very low level. It's enough to look at the numbers of the budget submitted. If you look at the financing of all educational activities, the total amount of HUF 1610 thousand million for this year is against the planned HUF 1616 thousand for next year. So, in terms of total spending, they would spend only HUF 6 billion more on education next year than they did this year. That's basically stagnation, freezing resources. Moreover, as the government expects an increase in GDP of 2.5 per cent next year, they represent a reduction in stagnating expenditure on education in proportion to GDP and a repeated reduction. From the growing cake, he uses the same slice of education, that is to say, he does not get the education out of the increase. By the way, since next year's instalments of the teacher's wage increase will also amount to a few ten billion forints, stagnation of educational expenditure also means that although the wages of teachers will increase, this will be achieved at the expense of other educational expenses. [[9.10]] Although the budget still shows little of this, it is likely that they would continue to carve on operational maintenance expenditure on an exclusionary basis. Otherwise, the increase in teacher wages is a completely different aspect if you consider, on the one hand, that the government has broken its original promise, because it is given only in several parts, in four years, the increase originally promised, and, on the other hand, if you add, it means an increase in the workload of teachers, in which the trade unions are protesting, but the Commissioner for Education has also raised his voice. Moreover, the workload has increased more than wages, i.e. more work is paid in proportion. We cannot leave without saying the situation of staff directly assisting education. They are still not appreciated by the government, since they have not received a penny increase since 2008, and this figure is clearly not going to change next year. They don't touch the civil servants' payroll, they stay at the 2008 levels. While teachers were given careers and wage increases - of course we pointed out that this was not clear and black and white - they were not given any salary increases for the next year, nor were they given any salary increases for the next year, as has been the case in recent years. The biggest injustice of education policy is that workers without whom kindergartens, schools, and teachers, who are in groups and classes, who share their souls for children, students, they get nothing. Many of them live under the minimum living standards and can't support their families. When LMP employees talk about poverty, they also think about their situation. It is simply a shame that those who deal with children and young people receive 70-80,000 forints a month. After the maintenance change, they can't even count on the cafeteria. However, the government perceives some of these yelling injustices, as in the autumn, teachers who work in schools are supposed to receive some extra-wage benefits, but this is only in the KLIK institutions, nurses working in kindergartens, assistants, school secretaries, especially technical staff, are not getting any of this. The kindergarten workers are not even that important, they are not so much appreciated, so next year there will be even greater worker poverty. Returning to education expenditure and further to higher education, however, in this area there is indeed full stagnation, as last year's HUF 152 billion state aid will change to HUF 153 billion. This expenditure, although more than HUF 1 billion and more than a few years ago, when state aid dropped to HUF 120 billion, is far below the HUF 190-200 billion cost before 2010. Unfortunately, the higher education strategy has also said - not unfortunately for saying it, but it is more disappointing that this has not happened - that higher education cannot count on an increase in public responsibility, it is not a goal to increase public spending here. So it is a clear government objective to freeze resources. Moreover, there will be no wage development in this area. Even though László Palkovics' State Secretary said at the beginning of the year that it was finally possible to raise something like this, despite the high education strategy, the figures clearly show that this is not the case. For ten years there hasn't been any wage development for higher education workers. This results in the poverty of the teachers' assistants, but also of the assistant professors, but the salary of professors and university teachers is not enough to attract young people with the best skills to the teaching and research career. László Palkovics, State Secretary of Higher Education, may write a hundred times in the higher education strategy that the government wants competitive, high-quality higher education without raising the wages of its employees. Competitive higher education does not exist without competitive higher education wages. Even in 2008, wages were not competitive with jobs of market firms or companies, but today this situation has deteriorated dramatically. But how can we expect a newly graduated graduate not to choose the workplace of a multinational company or even a domestic SME, but to stay in university education and study if he receives only a third of the salary? Otherwise, the amendment of the Higher Education Act will soon be laid down, which includes, among other things, making the working time of higher education staff and teachers more flexible in some respects, while, in the case of teachers and assistant professors, it will otherwise increase the burden and order everyone to spend 20% of their working time doing research. In view of the lack of wage increases, these changes are also reflected in a very different light. The May Other in Politics continues to represent that 15-20 forints out of every 100 forints budget should be spent on education. This value is currently around 12 forints. It is not an unattainable goal at all to support investment in knowledge not only by HUF 12, but by supporting it one and a half times, almost twice as much. Each plusforint spent on education comes back many times, a better investment for a country, a better investment for a country, a nation, I think it is not. Of course, this discovery is known only by those who believe in a knowledge-based society, and that is why they want to do so. That is precisely the objective of the LMP. We imagine an education policy that provides the same high-quality education and training for all members of society, where the disadvantage from home can be compensated by the education system and does not push those who are a little behind the average. With proper individual care, innovative pedagogical methods, you can maximize everyone. That's what we believe. Hungarian education must also be sent there to enable everyone to depend solely on the individual's talent and diligence, what will become of it later. Young people should also be prepared to adapt to the needs of the changing world, to raise young people who are flexible-minded, self-inventing, entrepreneurial in every situation; this is what the knowledge society is all about, this is the vision of the LMP. Of course, there are many educational policy and professional issues that need to be addressed, but it is all a condition of radical expansion of educational expenditure. You can't get much more out of that kind of money right now. It would be a great step forward, of course, to restore the age of compulsory education, even more to recast the National Basic Learning Plan, to review the state textbook system, to restore public knowledge in vocational training, but these would be a virtually zero step. Every development, step forward, quality improvement can only come after this, but this requires extra money. We claim that education determines our future and that education is determined by what we turn on it. If the expenses stay here, at this level, we'll basically stay here, too. If there is no stronger and better quality of education, then there will be no more livable Hungary, no more competitive economy, no more sustainable development. Of course, this year, too, the LMP will present budgetary amendments related to education, as one of our most important objectives is the eradication of workers' poverty in Hungary, which is why we are focusing on this in education. The education system for strengthening the knowledge society can only be imagined by paid, respected teachers, staff and higher education workers. Now I'd like to move on to health care. It can be seen that there has not been much progress in this area, at least based on the events of the last few months that we could have expected. If you look at the budget from the point of view of health, you can see that the ventilator hasn't been removed yet, but there's obviously no doubt about survival. And they've already admitted that that's all the money they've got. We can see from the budget that these numbers are not rising. For example, there is no evidence of a wage increase for health workers in the budget, for which many have raised their voices, often and in many places, and those affected have already gone out on the street, but it seems that they are not taken into account by the government. So they have to continue to work for embarrassing salaries and under conditions that speed up migration, so not only can foreign life be attractive to some, but also that domestic conditions push people who would like to work abroad, care for patients, heal people, but also want to make a living on their earnings. [[9.20]] On one hand, the Secretary of State for Health has been promised everything, and on the other hand, when planning the budget, they do not follow any of it, it is difficult to find words for it. How come, on the government's side, they say they're right about everything, and then they put together a budget for next year that says we don't give a damn about it? Instead, we see the solution when the country keeps health workers at home and therefore does everything; it does not do this by binding them, but with promises, prospects, visions that are attractive, it keeps these people here. It is therefore necessary to provide an immediate wage increase in line with the requests next year, which will be sufficient for firefighting. That's what we did with the amendment. After that, they should be working to achieve the level of wages by 2018, when they do not need to seek work abroad, even temporarily, to support their families, and somehow their salary is in proportion to the work they have done. Because - no illusions for you - every year there is an increasing burden on the shoulders of health professionals, for which they rightly expect a fair salary. But the other thing that is very important and very serious must also be discussed, the debt-making of hospitals and the fact that, despite promises, it is not possible to see how they are coming out of this debt. It seems that they are trying to cover the hospital for water, but it is completely nonsense to blame those who have to provide the services, while they do not receive the financial coverage of the services; as long as the basic hospital fees remain unchanged, debt will return. Although they may not know what debts they are talking about, they still have not paid the many debts that they had promised to settle several years ago in November of last year. Meanwhile, with this inaction, they cause significant damage to Hungarian suppliers, putting domestic companies and their employees in a difficult position. Moreover, the majority of suppliers were not even willing to negotiate. At least we know that, according to the President of the Court of Auditors, this is a bad message if the state does not pay. So do we. And the current budget does not change this problem, let the debts continue to gather. If we are in your position, we would like to ensure that such debts do not re-generate, and if this is the case, we should only talk about the reasons for possibly higher than expected spending. These amendments were submitted by the May Other Politics, which would be subject to the appropriate framework from next year's budget. Let's also talk about the fact that, in the meantime, there is also an emergency service, that the application for the construction and modernisation of the rescue stations undertaken cannot be completed in time, so that they can face a burden of up to HUF 11 billion, which would render the rescue service permanently inoperable, because it is not included in the budget for this year or next year, and it does not appear to be covered. Yet, it still doesn't seem certain that everything will be completed in time, the planned developments are in a huge delay. However, this also shows how far they can see the reality of what conditions prevail in the emergency services or anywhere else in health care. I would also like to say here that it is a mistake to say that instead of reducing it by 1 percentage point, health wages should be increased. No, that is not the case. Health wages, like social wages, and like hospital financing, are things that need to be spent heavily on, these amounts must be raised to a certain extent in these circumstances. There have been enough problems in this area, there have been no changes for quite some time; we should talk about how much money has been spent in recent years and how many times they have not reached these areas. Just notice that the government and the guard's cars always take precedence over ambulances, but moving to the Castle or any symbolic money-shopping has been ahead and moving forward now rather than improving the health situation. This approach should be very different. In conclusion, I would just like to mention that we have the opportunity to compare rates in terms of health at international level: 63 percent of domestic health spending is covered by public funds, and we do not need to compare this data with Western countries, which are significantly richer, in order to show disproportion, because if we look at the neighbouring countries, for example, the Slovak State will play a greater role by 7 percentage points and the Slovenian will play a greater role in maintaining health. It is no coincidence that domestic health workers are already dreaming about Slovak wages. The May Other Policy has made the amendments that could remedy these problems in the next year's budget, the steps that could be taken to combat fire, and the long-term thinking that could then be started, how to make the health career a stable attraction and future. We ask you to look at these amendments without sweeping them aside without looking at them, and we ask you to think about them, because without them there will be no progress in these areas. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-28-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent Member who has applied for the speech. Mr László Varju will speak. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The 2016 budget gives us a good opportunity to compare the performance of a period, not just one year, on the basis of the data of the Central Statistical Office. This period applies to the 25 years since the change of regime, how it was formed 25 years before the change of regime, and what performance and performance the governing parties have achieved, what results have been achieved and how people see it. This option is, in fact, exceptional now, because during the last 25 years, different governments, right-wing and left-wing governments actually cover a slightly similar period, although the right-wing was in a larger period in this respect, and I must add that the left-wing period was also affected by a major global economic crisis. But what we have to say is that in the period since the change of regime, people should also see in everyday life, based on data from the Central Statistical Office, that their income situation, their real income position, has not changed substantially from 1990 to 2016. And this is a dramatic situation, because the welfare, social and income performance of the time since the change of regime is far from what was otherwise before the change of regime. What was Fidesz's answer to that? By creating a rather autocratic system, by eliminating dialogue, he built such a buddy capitalism and strives to model it accordingly in his budget every year. The result of this policy is that relatively few people benefited, as one tenth of those living in Hungary, who actually benefited; and this is what we see in the 2016 budget. That is why this budget is unacceptable, because it provides neither livelihood nor security for 6 million people. This budget, unlike your intentions, actually accelerates the separation of 6 million people from reality, and you want to establish it by law. 6 million people are not told anything about the possibility of participating in a rock concert in Singapore, the possibility of a trip to London; this is not what makes the world colourful, but the yellow checks they cannot pay because of your economic policy and budgetary policy, by the way. [[9.30]] But what did you define as an important goal? We have heard primarily about tax cuts, wage increases, job creation here in the last few hours, during the debate. So let's see what reality looks like compared to this. Talking about a tax reduction, which provides a 1 per cent opportunity for personal income tax, is a merit to those who have actually benefited, the few who have benefited as a result of this policy. So Fidesz's friends have a good tax cut. Speaking of VAT cuts, let us say that it is actually quite cynical when the world's highest - once again, the highest in the world - is being paid a general turnover tax in everyday life, whether it is basic food or something else, so far. Therefore, in fact, the timeliness of this has long since been the case for you to reconsider. To talk about wage growth when you have been in government for half a decade, and basically during that period you have failed to achieve that the minimum wage provides people with minimum living conditions... - today the working man who works 8 hours, earning wages and salaries, the result of 8 hours as minimum wage does not reach the minimum of which, by the way, his daily housing, at least his livelihood, should be created on the basis of statistical data. And it doesn't reach it, you're not closer to this in five years, although I welcome the fact that either the Hungarian Socialist Party or Jobbik recognize this initiative of the Democratic Coalition, support it, or even speak for five years, but it would also be good to introduce it immediately. The third, very important goal you have announced is about job creation; while we see that small businesses in Hungary are ending to an unprecedented extent, and the important consequence of this is that, indeed, the unpaid wages will remain after the companies that have ceased to exist. And this unpaid wage puts all workers in an impossible position, and there is no one in their vulnerability to act in this regard. Therefore, we initiate the power of the law to prevent any enterprise from disappearing without, by the way, leaving behind unpaid wages for those who are paid and paid. They are talking about job creation, but this budget is primarily about public employment, and significant resources have been planned for this. If we look at other high targets, it follows that it is really the buddies who will benefit from these decorated, primarily for development purposes. After all, I must stress once again that the economic policy of Fidesz is doing so at the expense of 6 million people, which, by the way, gives few people opportunities. It is not about its own performance, it is not about that, but it is about incomes that are abstract from the majority, which basically finance the well-being of the few. Let us take a look at some of the specifics of this budget proposal that you have put here; although I would add that the trial of this which you are now trying to do is not only an attempt, but it is being forced upon us, and at the same time they say that this is what makes predictability possible, I would like to say with all due respect that, for the year 2016, I see that this is not at all guaranteed. After all, over the past few years, you have had to redesign your budget many times in order to correct the momentary situations. So this reference, I think, is false. We are certainly still facing a number of changes. The trial, the thorough debate, doesn't make any sense either, because according to the norm, the government can do whatever it wants anyway. You will hide 400 billion forints twice in order to use it in your own power, excluding it from parliamentary competence, as a reserve for the government's convenience. Another hundreds of billions of forints are hidden in different background institutions. It was criticized before, and it wasn't true then, and now it's what they're doing. So you're preaching water, drinking wine, actually deceiving people because they hide them and use these resources in this way. I would add that putting 400 billion HUF in reserve means that we are talking about the whole annual family support system available to Hungary, or more than the total amount of public education pay is placed in their own hands so that they can use it accordingly. There are few exceptions to free robbery, but we will find solutions for you in this, too. From an economic policy point of view, it is only an evaluable achievement to meet the EU's expectations of a budget deficit below 3 per cent, and this planning has been made accordingly. How economic policy processes work and how much you have an impact on this performance? If we start from 2015, we can see that it depends primarily on two plus one things. The two things are the possibility of drawing European Union funds, in Hungarian whether Hungary receives support from the European Union to catch up or not, and in addition to the operation of the automotive industry. If these two things work, then in Hungary, in the case of your governance, you can report that something has happened. It's completely independent of you. The third element has already been mentioned several times by Mr Font Sándor, essentially depends on God and the weather. If this goes well, then indeed, agriculture is contributing significantly to this achievement, but the government does not have anything to do with it. The government itself claims that GDP growth will also significantly slow down in 2016. It follows, and this is reflected in the budget, that the investment rate is falling significantly. This is the tragedy of Hungary, when, in essence, investments fall to a level that essentially does not replace depreciation. We have seen this in 2015 as well, which means that this will continue in your planning, and it can also be deducted that declining investments will lead to decreasing consumption in areas that are most important for the future, and it will also result in declining employment. So you have to plan additional public work in the coming years, unless there is an early election, because it would save Hungary from all of this. It must therefore be stated that in recent years the performance of the Hungarian economy has only been able to provide a temporary opportunity for you to report on progress. But if the large companies I mentioned were not, you would be quite sad in this regard - but not just you. Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises could not only be sad, but also in reality, because their situation, their position has not changed in the past, and this budget does not promise anything. Not so much that they cannot even activate development resources, because while Hungary, as a whole, is waiting for applications, you have managed to produce zero of the existing opportunities since 1 January 2014. [[9.40]] And 2015 does not offer opportunities in this respect either, because the non-expositions - like my fellow Member here, several of my fellow Members have promised that now, the calls for proposals will come, and we will still be waiting for that in 2015, but if the announcements appear in 2015, they will not even have a substantial revenue for 2016. So half of your governance has been squandered, European Union development opportunities have been played out, economic resources cannot be counted on in this respect, while they cannot account for the past period. If the government's statistics show that the problem is so great, then it is clear from the sun that the Hungarian economy is not on a developing, catching-up path, the government uses economic development resources in part poorly and steals them in part. The only real result of your governance is the stuffing of your buddies' wallets, which is why the entire economic development goal and tool system of the governments that follow you needs to be redesigned and redesigned. In any case, a few words should still be said about revenue, because the revenue side of the budget proposal is also in line with the analysts and the State Audit Office. All in all, this is the view, but the reality of it significantly, let us say, shows a more nuanced picture to put it a little more delicately. We find it unfair and harmful that one of the most prominent and important elements of the more than sixty taxes you have introduced is the 27 percent general sales tax on which most of the revenue is built. But here the reduction in income tax is not affected in this respect by your initiative, at least what it is worth talking about. But there is one element that I would definitely like to mention, because the fall in income tax does not affect those consumers, so increasing consumption taxes can be particularly detrimental. One of the basic elements of economics is the decline of the marginal benefit theory, i.e. the fact that a thousand HUF increase in income tax per month is not equally useful for the public worker, the executive director or the banker. And now I'm not talking about Lőrinc Mészáros, who forgot to tell me about a billion forints' income, so it was not really worth it to him either. The whole thing shows - from your tax system - that you are supporting the rich, and you are doing this by taking it away from 6 million people and implementing such a tax policy. The Democratic Coalition says the exact opposite of these principles, so basically you do not want to change them now, and therefore only, as I said, a forward choice could create a new situation. I would like to highlight one more thing, and this is cynicism, when you talk about a longer term, and what your education planning shows. In 2015, the amount spent on public and municipal education was HUF 697 bn, compared to which HUF 713 bn is planned for 2016, so we have to talk about stagnation. In the meantime, as a consequence of the above-mentioned economic policy, you have to plan more public work because, due to the lack of investment, employment cannot grow significantly, so you need to create public work and expand public work, and so instead of planning for HUF 270 billion last year, you need to plan almost HUF 400 billion for public work next year. And why kindergarten support is being reduced while they talk about how every child over the age of 3 has to go to kindergarten, and how it's resolved, you have no idea, but the real problem is that parents who look for children in their immediate environment for kindergarten care and they can't find, well, that's a much bigger problem. Overall, I have to say to you that this draft budget is unacceptable, which is why it does not make much sense to make amendments, so my proposal is either to withdraw it and to make another budget, but it is not worth supporting in this form. Hungary needs a budget that brings livelihoods and security. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-28-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lyubomir spoke on behalf of the minority committee. I give you the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2015-05-28-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice, poštovana Skupštino! Zadatak mi je da u ime Narodnosnog odbora Maddarskog Parlamenta iznesem stav o pojedinimstavkama budžeta 2016. godine. - and, of course, continue in Hungarian. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/4730 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to express our opinion on a number of topics that are important for nationality public life, such as ethnicisation, domestic and EU applications, and a small segment of ethnic public education. With the traditions, culture, art, and mother tongue of the 13 nationalities that make up Hungary, they express the uniqueness, identity-consciousness of their nationalities, thus enriching the past, present and future of Hungarians. A key element of nationality is the sacrifice to preserve identity, to combat assimilation and to preserve a culture of nationality. The way of expressing nationality is best reflected in the arts, which is the most typical form of knowledge for a wide audience. Of all the artistic manifestations, acting is most decisive and expressive. In Hungary, there are centuries of history of nationalism acting, which is a crucial, community-sustaining factor in the life of nationalities. XCIX 2008 on support for rapporteur organisations and specific employment rules. The law laid down provisions to support the artistic life of nationalities in Hungary and to enforce cultural rights. It notes that increasing the diversity and values of theatre, dance and music, delivering performances and concerts to a wide audience, supporting the artistic life of nationalities in Hungary, developing the institution of performing arts, creating a system of support for the efficient use of public funds, and the enforcement of cultural rights led the legislator to establish legislation. The aim of the law is to facilitate the creation of works in Hungarian, including the value-creating activities of Hungarian artists and performers and organizations across the border, the presentation of Hungarian authors' works, the creation and presentation of works born in the language of Hungarian nationalities. The National Theatre is a theatre in ethnicity, or even in Hungarian, recognised by the declaration of the national minority self-government, whose lectures created by the creative communities associated with the particular nationality essentially serve to satisfy the native cultural needs of this ethnic community and are linked to the sociocultural background and traditions of the ethnic community. [[9.50]] In recent years, ethnic theatres have had to face several problems. The change in the funding model for theatres has led to a drastic reduction in support of ethnic theatres in Hungary. For example, the state support of the Hungarian Serbian Theatre in 2009 was HUF 38 million, and in 2013 HUF 22 million was allocated to the theatre organization. This represents a reduction of 43 per cent of the aid. With the increase in the number of ethnic theatres, 13 ethnic theatres have already submitted operational applications this year. At the same time as the reduction in the envelope, the amount of aid for each theatre continued to fall, but there was no welcome withdrawal for national and priority theatres. The basic condition of institutional operation is planning, and here particular attention should be paid to the fact that funding starts at the beginning of the year in order to ensure that the first half of the year is not financially unbalanced. Predictability is an essential condition for well-designed institutional operation, the natural consequence of which is the availability of resources within the deadline. The stability of the appropriations for the budget year shall determine the institution's overall safe functioning throughout the year. Adequate funding of theatres is essential in order to preserve the cohesion of the community and a high level of linguistic culture in ethnic life. For the survival of a greater nationality in Hungary, it is vital that the ethnic theatre continues to be of sufficient importance, and as a prerequisite, the level of funding must be adapted to the operational needs. In addition to the under-financing of ethnic theatres, there was a further problem with the fact that the applications for professional prizes were unsuccessful year after year. The lack of recognition represents an important loss of motivation among ethnic creators. Arcusfest was the national festival of ethnic theatres, and it has not been held in the last five years with reference to lack of resources, thus eliminating the possibility of introducing the majority of ethnic theatres. In terms of professional development, it is essential that the national theatre festival again provides an opportunity for competition. The fact that there is no state-organized training in Hungary for ethnic theatre professionals makes everyday life more difficult. By providing appropriate training, a diverse, valuable ethnicity-rich Hungarian theatre life could develop. I think it is important that the lack of resources in Hungary does not result in the loss of the tradition of nationality. The negative examples listed are hopefully the past behind us. As my spokesperson mentioned yesterday, this year has brought a breakthrough in several areas of ethnic public life. Hopefully, this process has also started in the area of ethnic play, with the government's decision to reconstruct Deutsche Bühne's German ethnic theatre for HUF 200 million in the 2015 budget. This source insurance is the basis for the survival of German ethnic theatre. The financing problems could be solved if the annual amount of HUF 106 million previously available for this purpose was increased, which is also proposed by the draft law before us. In the 2016 Central Budget Act, if a surplus of HUF 100 million were to be separated from 2015 for nationalism acting, it would provide for the possibility of survival and development in Hungarian ethnic cultural and artistic life. A further HUF 100 million increase provided by the Finance Act should be considered for the transfer and consolidation of the HUF 106 million of funds managed by the State Secretary of Culture. It is our Commission's task to discuss and present to this House the possibility of legislative amendments needed to change this and the way in which it is financed. Without these necessary conditions, the ethnic activism in Hungary will perish. And as a result of the demise, the centuries of value-making work would cease, with which ethnic charades have resulted in the coloring and enrichment of Hungarian cultural life. Cultures of nationality are also an integral part of Hungarian culture, enriching Hungarian cultural life with added value. In addition to the issue of nationality acting, I would also like to talk about the opportunities for tender and self-promotion available to nationalities. In contrast to local and municipal authorities, national authorities were not entitled to apply for the own funds needed for EU development applications, which, contrary to local and local authorities, discriminated against the rights of national self-government, since without the possibility of self-subsidisation, many promising nationalities in Hungary have lost their rights. Legal standards on self-government, self-determination and responsibilities apply analogue rules in many places with local, territorial and ethnic self-government. As a result of the legislative trend in recent years, the national authorities must comply with increasingly stringent standards and conditions, which underpin the aforementioned legislation on the same basis. Act C of 2014 on Hungary's budget for 2015 IX. According to Chapter 1 of Chapter III of the European Parliament and of the Council, aid may be claimed only by local authorities. Act C on Hungary's central budget for 2015 unfortunately follows the practice of the past years in supporting the own resources of the European Union development tender, which constitutes a serious discrimination for national authorities by not naming national authorities in a legal provision. As a main rule, the national minority self-government was regulated in an analogue manner in legal standards with the provisions on local and regional authorities, and therefore there is reasonable reason to object to the legislative practice that the minority self-governments were excluded from self-subsidisation. In view of what has been explained, the exclusion of national minority self-governments from the domestic and EU self-force base is discriminatory and unviable. Complementing the own resources needed for EU development proposals, the call for proposals by national self-government is legitimate and well-founded, unconditionally eligible. In the planning of the 2016 central budget, it seems appropriate to include minority self-governments in the text of the passage supporting the addition of own resources to the European Union's development proposals for municipalities and their associations. Article XX of the Finance Act Chapter 21 Ministry of Human Resources 20/60. Under Title II, the promotion of national minority institutions represents a step forward in terms of investment, renovation and tendering, as it can cover the extra part of the tender in respect of domestic applications, provided that the national authorities are also named in the list of applicants. In addition to self-government, national minority authorities maintain and operate educational, educational and public education institutions and theatres, which, because of the level of funding, would in many cases require participation in national and EU applications. Self-employment would make a major contribution to ensuring the performance of tasks and developing a further institutional network. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] [[10.00]] Furthermore, I think it is important to highlight the need to take account of the fact that national authorities should also be named in the tender round for national and European Union development proposals. As part of the closing part of the speech, I would like to say a few words about the section of the bill on public education and on nationality public education. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 12 According to Section 1 (1) of the Act, a person belonging to a nationality has the right to learn his or her mother tongue, to participate in mother tongue public education, education, culture, access to equal opportunities for education and cultural services, which the State is obliged to promote through effective measures. In order to support the public and other activities of ecclesiastical legal persons, national authorities and private institutions, the 2011 CXC on nationality public education. The central budget provides support to the maintenance of the local government, the ecclesiastical and private educational institution, subject to the condition that the public education institution carries out its activities in accordance with the terms of the operating licence. The funding is based on the same level as the public institutions with local government reservations. National governments operate as institutional supporters at both municipal and national level. In many cases, the provision of tasks in the educational and educational field requires extra effort and financial effort from national authorities. In Hungary, the local government is involved in many cases in the implementation of ethnic education by maintaining a nationality school and kindergarten. In most cases, this provision of tasks requires additional financial expenditure from local authorities, which in most cases can manage the costs with no or only significant difficulties. Both national and municipal minority self-governments maintain educational institutions under 100 persons in schools and kindergartens, the central funding of which is currently insufficient for safe operation. From the main amount included in the draft law on the central budget of 2016, the proposal allocates a budget of HUF 80 million to complement the management and maintenance resources of schools, kindergartens, which are under 100 people, maintained by the above-mentioned municipal authorities and minority self-governments. Of course, this amount is not enough for this task, but its importance is that this title is published in the law and one of these is now being introduced. The additional funding will ensure the survival and survival of the ethnic public education institutions. All nationalities living in Hungary consider it important that they address their young people through education, that they can strengthen the feeling of belonging to nationality in the growing generation through training and awareness of language culture. As regards nationalities, it is of particular importance to authorise the start-up of small-scale classes, to provide access to free language textbooks, to receive textbooks on time, and, not least, to provide adequate central funding for educational institutions. With regard to ethnic minorities in Hungary, I would like to ask for a positive decision by this House, both in terms of ethnic play and the opportunity to appear in the competition round and in terms of ethnic education. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2015-05-28-20	Welcome, fellow Members. Now we have two-minute comments. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr Zoltán Gőgös.
u2015-05-28-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Sándor Font spoke to him a long time ago, so many of you probably don't even remember what he said. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes!]] But I'd have a brief reaction, and I'll probably tell you the rest this afternoon. I would suggest to my fellow Member and to everyone who might not want beef to get started and like it then. What he told me about milk production is more of a problem than he did. For a 25-percent drop in milk prices, insisting that the aid will be taken away from companies that deal with it is a very, very serious mistake. You can't compensate for that, so you can't compensate me for giving back half of it on some branch. So, if possible, I suggest the beef stew for everyone, because there's nothing else to do from these animals, and they're gonna show up in slaughterhouses in bulk. The other big problem will be that what they would do instead is the heifer stock that they currently have, and they will be sold because of it they will try to reduce their losses by these businesses. It's not a game, it's about 30,000 people's jobs, I just want to signal. So this is what the government is playing with when it withdraws subsidies, unparalleled in Europe, without taking into account the employment of those in this circle. Just one more thought. I don't know if you remember the government decision that was published at 1437 in 2014. It is clear in this regard what compensation should be granted in this case. In two years, the government will withdraw 11 million from its own decision. I believe that these should be taken into account. There are a thousand other problems in this budget, but I think it is one of them that affects rural employment very, very seriously. This is gonna be a big problem. The congressman told me that everything is nice and good. I suggest that you also go to areas where there will be such job losses a few times, see how you will be received. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-28-22	Secretary of State István Nagy asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond immediately to the words of my honourable fellow Member, as he raised a question which cannot go unanswered. The farming government will do everything in its power to properly address the situation in the dairy market. For 1.2 billion forints, he initiates a buy-in to remove excess milk from the market and create an opportunity to try to normalize the telecommunications. This year, there is 55 percent more support for a dairy farmer than he had received before. We pay for Europe's highest bovine support in Hungary, more than anywhere else in Europe. I think we can give them opportunities to stabilise this sector. We track him, we feel him, we see the market. The EKÁER system was introduced for a reason, since what hit milk producers the most was the importation of VAT fraud products into Hungary. It causes a dumping carve, like on the shelves of multi-stores, which, of course, puts farmers in a difficult position and pushes the driveway low. But the EKAER works. We are getting more and more hands on dishonest market players. I think that by promoting a new protein programme in Hungary, by first adopting the law on genetic modification, by working on the agricultural portfolio to put a signal system on milk cartons that will indicate that we are talking about animal products made of non-genetically modified feed for milk for the first time, again, it can only give farmers a market advantage with which they can organise milk production in stable conditions, predictablely and in the long term. The dairy sector is the most difficult sector, and it can also be said that Hungarian agriculture is a difficult industry. You can't calculate by cutting off the stock overnight. [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes, you will!]] To make beef stew. All our decisions must be long-term, thoughtful and thoughtful, because the setting up of a calf in the dairy system is at least a two-year programme. [[10.10]] Therefore, ad hoc measures cannot be taken, each decision must have at least a two-year lead and a two-year impact on the market. I believe that with this support system, with the protection of the limits that the EKAER has and the possibility of protecting GMOs, we can provide farmers with advantages that can preserve market positions, remain in favour of milk production in the long term and provide them with a safe livelihood. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-28-24	We'll continue in two minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán.
u2015-05-28-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Varju and Mr Ikotity have also said that there is stagnation in education and there is no growth, and spending is not increasing. Well, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for a long time, thinking has clearly defined what we have seen under socialist governments, namely, inflation has always taken away a lot of money, and nominal increases in the current budget have been good for keeping it on a level. However, it has now been said for years that inflation is virtually zero, and therefore nominal values are indeed maintenance in this respect. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, particularly in connection with the suggestion of Mr Ikotity: in evaluating and planning public education expenditure, it is good to bear in mind that vocational training institutions are transferred from the KLIK to the national economy wallet, to the agricultural portfolio, and, consequently, their budgets are not to be looked for in the public education line. As far as higher education is concerned, the Member says that the strategy here sounds nice and nothing has happened. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this higher education strategy has been widely adopted. Everyone agrees, everybody understands, probably the LMP doesn't understand. The essence of this is that for the first time there is profile cleaning, elimination of parallelities and subsequent wage arrangement. For now, we are talking about the elimination of profile cleaning and parallels. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-28-26	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would say to Congressman Pósán that it would be good to stop talking nonsense. The fact is that since 2007, 2008, hundreds of billions have been withdrawn from education, so Hungary will never rise. Secondly, we were just talking about the fact that while there is GDP growth, the share of education as a percentage of GDP is constantly decreasing. When I listened to President Font, I almost applauded him, and he spoke so beautifully. The thing is, it looked like you were listening to the 2009 Magos leader. The problem is that they have a completely different agricultural policy. We agree that basically the labour-intensive small and medium-sized estate should be supported. My question is why, when Jobbik and LMP are presenting to József Ángyán their national rural development strategy, the Fidesz-KDNP will vote for this. [[Sándor Font: Because it's an outdated strategy!]] Or when the LMP proposed an absolute maximum of 1200 hectares in 2013, why does Font Sándor vote for this? Or when there is an organic agricultural model farm in Kishantos, why do they contribute to the agricultural portfolio plowing it? We agree that it was a huge crime that, after the change of regime, the manufacturing industry was virtually nullified, bulldozed, nothing to talk about. The small thing that could be added is that those who drove the Antall government most into this, precisely the liberal parties, were the most extreme of them, Fidesz between 1990 and 1992. The question, however, is whether, if we want to re-establish the manufacturing industry in Hungary from 2018, for example, LMP's proposal to have a Community economic development fund, from which, for example, confederations can be supported so that local products can be delivered to the market. Or if you want to redefine the manufacturing industry, Sándor Font, why doesn't he demand his government to say no to the European-American Free Trade Convention, because if it comes into force, there will never be a domestic manufacturing industry in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Finally, if we want healthy food, if we want to compete with healthy food, we cannot take 300 billion HUF away from the environment. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-28-28	We now return to the normal speeches. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre.
u2015-05-28-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the government's position has been clear, order and public security are one of the most important areas in which the state must comply, so in line with this, the issue of public order and public security will also be given serious importance in the budget for next year. The Government of Hungary considers strengthening public security, combating international and domestic terrorism, developing disaster protection to protect human life and values, detecting small and high value crimes and implementing penalties as a priority issue. These changes are included in our government programme, and accordingly, the 2016 budget ensures that these commitments are implemented by the government. It can be said that crisis management has ended today and the Hungarian economy has stabilised. As a result, the number of police is constantly increasing, and we have improved working conditions with new vehicles and police buildings. The most significant result in this area is the introduction of a career model and the associated salary development. In line with the objectives set out in the Government Programme, the Ministry of Interior and the law enforcement agencies under its control are essential to strengthen order and public security, to ensure consistent implementation of developments and organisational changes for the protection, security of citizens. According to the government programme, increased police presence is required in all Hungarian settlements, which have produced visible results in previous years and increased citizens' sense of security. In order to increase the number of well-trained police officers, the Ministry of Interior has developed a training concept, which also promotes public security and provides police personnel with the necessary knowledge for their work. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 budget will enable the police to carry out their tasks and achieve the objectives, because it will provide the organization with more than HUF 4 billion in additional resources, which will serve the high quality of the existing tasks and the implementation of the new tasks of the organisation in 2016. The police have the most extensive institutional system in the sector. This includes 29 budgetary institutions. In 2015, the number of police is 48 288, while in 2016 it is expected to increase to 48 436. This represents an increase of 148 people. The three pillars of the renewed police are the Counter-Terrorism Centre for the detection, prevention and eradication of terrorist offences, the National Defence Service for internal crime prevention and detection tasks, as well as the National Police Headquarters and its subordinate bodies, which jointly and in cooperation carry out their tasks. The most important change for the stock is the increase in the law enforcement salary. The budget shall include provisions on the increase in salaries of professional staff of law enforcement bodies, with a total wage development of 50 per cent for professional staff divided into five years. By way of derogation from category 1 of this Regulation, with effect from 1 July 2015, an average salary increase of 30 per cent shall be made. Following this, the stock members shall receive an average increase of 5 per cent per year by 1 January 2019. [[10.20]] The aim of the new salary system is to recognise the value of jobs, service experience and performance at the same time. The new salary scheme provides higher salaries for members of the professional staff as decided by the government. With the new classification and, if necessary, additional individual correction measures, all members of the professional staff will have an average salary increase of 30 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's budget will ensure the objectives of the government programme for the continuous strengthening of public order and public security, as the bill is prepared in the spirit of stability and predictability. The Government intends to provide adequate compensation to law enforcement workers in exchange for higher and high-quality performance and service under special circumstances. In order to encourage the functioning of an efficient apparatus capable of meeting and wanting to meet the challenge of the age, the establishment of a predictable, attractive model of careers, leading to a significantly higher wage level, is considered by the government and the portfolio as a key objective. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-30	I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2015-05-28-31	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I don't know who wrote the words of my fellow Member Vas Imre, which he read, but it had nothing to do with reality. I'll tell you what's in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Home Affairs next year, that at least those who are watching or the media who are reporting on today's debate should be aware of what's real. The MSZP has been calling the budget for next year from the first minute to the hit-and-run budget, primarily because it supports and carries on that perverted social policy, and even carries on with floor gas, which you have done over the past five years: for anyone who is good, rich, in the upper class, who has more in common, who is in the middle or who lives in the poor line, should be even worse, even if there is one way, most likely to leave the country, and then there is no problem with them. That's what their tax systems and budgets are all about. Speaking of the hit-and-run budget, it's exactly the Ministry of Home Affairs, including the police's hit-and-run budget next year. This can be presented by objective numbers. First of all, contrary to what my fellow Member Vas said, there is no naughty penny in the Ministry of Interior's budget for next year's wage increase, a naughty penny for raising wages or implementing the career model. Ladies and gentlemen, these are objective things, not included. The Ministry of Interior's personal appropriations are the same as those of the Ministry of Interior, so there is not a penny in the budget of the Ministry of Interior for next year at the rate of 30 percent wage increases promised at the beginning of July. In the meantime, we see that the Minister of the Interior has tabled a few legislative amendments last week to Parliament, which, obviously, in the near future, will probably have to be adopted by the House in a very urgent manner or in some very fast procedure, since it has to come into force on 1 July. The essential element of this is one point: that within the career model, you intend to postpone the new rules on the salary system until 1 January 2019. Putting the two regulations together, the situation is clear: this Parliament was also deceived when the opposition was asked for support for the new career model on 14 April, and all the opposition parties gave this support and cheated the 70,000 people promised a new career model and a new salary system within it. With this bill, the introduction of 1 January 2016 will be postponed three years before the entry into force of the law, plus I would like to say that the system of rewards that would be given with the new career will be postponed until January or February 2017, so a year's reward will be taken out of every professional pocket, which according to the new system would be based on performance in two instalments per year. In order to make it clear to everyone, the existing reward will be abolished from 1 July, so in the law enforcement sphere, professionals will not receive any incentive based on performance for a year and a half, the old one will be taken away and the new one will not be given to them. In next year's budget, the law enforcement salary is HUF 38 650. That's what the law says. It is a pity that my fellow Member Vas has gone out, although at least this way I will not confuse him with the numbers. This 38 650 HUF has been the same since 2008, not a penny increase. If we put together that you want to or, possibly by a simple majority, you will postpone the entry into force of this part of the law, you will postpone the entry into force of the system of rewards, and you will not raise a penny on the basis, that raises two questions. One is that BM is unable to implement the law and unable to calculate the new salary system. So there's a legal mess that even though we passed a law, BM can't implement it. The other option - and this is more likely, as mentioned above - is that you have basically looked at this salary increase and this career model, and there is simply no cover to implement this law, but dare not stand up, look people in the eye and announce that we apologize for the fact that we cannot introduce this career model for budgetary and financial reasons. I have the bad news, my fellow Members, that despite the fact that Károly Kontra is publishing various ill-advised communications in this matter, people's payment papers will sooner or later, in January at the latest, find out whether you have deceived them or not. At present, based on the draft laws submitted, you can see that you are about to cheat a vast area again, and once again you have been deceiving a new career, but you are not getting a real career for these people either. The objective loser of next year's budget - quite contrary to what Imre Vas said here - specifically the police. The police can manage nearly HUF 4 billion and HUF 4.5 billion less than this year's labour costs. If we look at the police's actual expenses, it's a 10-percent withdrawal. In principle, you have to use this money to refuel cars, pay bills, keep the police running. The State Audit Office writes on this part: In the case of the police title, there is also a risk of the emergence of debt in the implementation of the 2016 budget, in addition to the cost-effective management. So this is also projected by the State Audit Office itself. By the way, it is often said in Hungarian that you don't give enough money to carry out your basic tasks, unpaid invoices, unordered services, unfinished tasks are projected by this budget underdesign, which we simply don't understand how you think about Hungary's current security situation. Forints 2.7 billion of the operational cost is pre-closing for the chapter reserve. You will give 3 billion HUF less to the police because of the reduction in funding. There should be some reason why this is good. My fellow Member Vas Imre said how important it is that the police are in the settlements and there is presence and presence. I would like to say that for this special programme, which has sent the existing staff to the streets with various overtimes - including detectives and officials working in the administration department, but anyway - you have put HUF 1.68 billion of extra money into the budget so far, at the address of the public security programme to improve the subjective sense of security of the Hungarian population. To my fellow Member Vas, if he were here, I would tell him, so I say to those who are here, I do not know if you know, my fellow Members, that this programme will be terminated by the government next year. I don't know what Mr. Vas was talking about. There is less than HUF 1.6 billion, and this program disappears as a labeled program, so if you are worried about your single mandate district, you can start worrying about it as well. But bulletproof vests will be bought by the police for 1.5 billion forints. It is shocking, my fellow Members, that there will be no money for bills, no fuel money for the police, and the patrols will be begging again or they will not be able to carry out the tasks, but now suddenly bulletproof vests must be bought for 1.5 billion forints. The operation of the e-toll system will continue to be the responsibility of the police. We have been asking for years and saying that this has been stopped, because we do not need to have well-trained policemen check stickers, not with the county traffic police, not with the police responsible for road safety, sitting around looking at whether people bought stickers on the car or not, because this is a huge waste of money, this is a specific type of job that can be done by people with other skills or skills. [[10.30]] Within the BM chapter, the budget of the National Defence Service is growing in substance alone, they are about to receive 50 percent more money: instead of HUF 4 billion, they will be able to observe those colleagues from the National Defence Service who, as I have just said, will not receive the money needed to perform their basic tasks. But if you provoke them with a crime, you'll be able to jump them out of the bushes to see if they're corrupt or not. Let's stop here because just today or yesterday, a very entertaining news appeared that the Hungarian government decided on the national anti-corruption programme, which I think is an entertainment category news in Hungary. After the Hungarian government has called on the local authorities and the civil society to examine everyone in this resolution, it is necessary to see where the risk of corruption is and to strike down the offices, the civilians and everyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who knows this country knows that the situation is the other way around. So with the government members, the state leaders, and the heads of some corrupt offices, we should now be ready to strike at the bodies that are in charge of this, and then we could implement a national anti-corruption programme. But the reason I'm telling you this is because the National Defense Service is exactly what it's about, and I don't know, the National Defence Service, of course, is very good that it has such strong powers and a lot of numbers and money. But how can a case happen in Hungary when you can use secret service devices to listen to anyone, the National Defence Service can observe that the U.S. disbarment scandal against the heads of the IRS has been going on for months, and on a self-religious basis, one person confesses that, yes, he is involved in such a matter, and then resigns. What's the National Defense Service doing? Who are you chasing? Who are you chasing? Because it doesn't mean those who really should, where hundreds of billions disappear, when they're in a position to make a decision to play public money to others. That's why we don't have a problem with the NTSB having powers, and we don't even have the extra money. Our problem is that he's clearly not doing his job. CTU doesn't get any more money, no less. Its task will be less, because, as we know, the President of the Republic of Hungary is satisfied with the protection of the Counter-Terrorism Centre for reasons of confidence and will seek the protection of the police in the future. It's not in the budget. But, let me add, it is not clear that Hungary is sending troops to fight against the Islamic State, and how the Hungarian government would prepare itself for the risk of internal security. There have been improvements and improvements in the field of prison execution, which are clearly eligible. In 2016 we will be talking about the construction of another Bv institution in Northern Hungary. A total of HUF 6.5 billion is included in the title for these purposes, which can be specifically supported, because the infrastructure state of the prison execution has been in a deplorable state for decades and even for almost a century. At the same time, there is a HUF 1 billion reduction in funding at bv, and HUF 603 million is also blocked, which means that overall there will be no substantial additional funding for the operation of the organization itself, in addition to additional tasks. In disaster management, my fellow Members, the basic tasks will receive HUF 250 million in disaster management. Here, too, the State Audit Office points out that there will be enormous tensions, and I must draw your attention to the fact that you want to give this organisation the garbage shipment, the chimney sweep, and the water supply. These areas, these sectors, both local governments and companies have been calling for help for months, that garbage shipments will collapse, that water supply will collapse for people. At the chimney sweep, you will see the statistics are deteriorating, ladies and gentlemen, and here you are playing with people's health and lives, while in this budget you will not get a penny more from disaster control to actually carry out these tasks. So it would be nice to have a clear decision in this, either let those who know how to do it and can do it, or if they want to push this thing further in disaster management, then at least let's see that there are some sources. Here comes one of the most beautiful parts of their budget, the Immigration and Nationality Office. So, ladies and gentlemen, one of the people who put together this budget could talk to Viktor Orbán. It is literally stated in the justification that further expansion of host institutions and the establishment of a new host station are essential. Then decide whether the Prime Minister is lying on his campaign tour, or it is not true in the budget, in the justification, that you want to close down reception stations here, while this is not the case in the budget - obviously the truth is in the budget in this regard, but this is more than a tell. In addition, HUF 150 million is added to the Immigration and Nationality Office and 31 persons are added. Fellow Members! In a case in which the Hungarian government and the Prime Minister personally go to Strasbourg to play the clown, that Hungary's biggest problem is immigrants coming here, you give an extra 150 million forints and 31 forints? ! While national consultations are being held for a billion forints, they give 150 million forints in addition to the organization that should handle this issue in reality? ! It also shows that neither immigration nor the wave of refugees in real life today is among the most pressing problems in Hungary, regardless of the fact that no one doubts the existence of this phenomenon. But this budget doesn't reflect that. Overall, what can be said about this budget is that the police, the police body responsible for the daily safety of people, are one of the biggest losers of this budget, and the money needed to carry out its basic tasks will not be available. It can also be said that people have been deceived, because the budget and the law submitted to it make it clear that the law that has not yet entered into force will be postponed by three years, and that the stock will not receive what has been promised to the people, and that they will not implement what they had voted for here with Parliament a few weeks ago. It is clear that both in disaster management and the Immigration and Nationality Office budget, which you are doing here as a political hack campaign in the country and you have no relationship to thank for reality. We will make amendments, because the minimum is that the wage development is covered by the Ministry of Interior budget, as it appears interestingly in the defence wallet, and not at BM, on the one hand. On the other hand, the adjustments to the police withdrawal here will be submitted, and we very much hope that at least the Fidesz fraction and the members of the Defence and Police Committee will have the honour to support these amendments, which they will hopefully be committed to. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-05-28-32	Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás has applied for a comment. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to the voice of Mr Bellman. You can see the reduction in police expenditure in rem due to this year's one-off expenditure and investment expenditure, as the expenditure related to investment this year will not appear next year. He specifically covered the purchase of bulletproof vests. It's an obligation, bulletproof vests have a bearing, warranty period as long as they can be used. I don't think anyone would expect the police to be sent out in any service to otherwise appear in unprotected bulletproof vests. Obviously, this can be used for daily political, topical policy purposes, but there is a simple technical reason for the need to replace bulletproof vests. The congressman presented a very interesting fiction about the career model. In the ministerial expo, Minister Varga, I think he has made it quite clear and clear that, within the framework of the career model, the pre-promised increases in salaries will take place this year and next year. The budget reserve covers HUF 121.7 billion for the police. So to talk about whether the police or the Home Office budget chapter is the loser of this 2016 budget, I think it's pretty frivolous. The budget includes not only HUF 121.7 billion required for the implementation of the career. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: 135, but don't worry about it.]] The budget also includes the second 5% increase in the salaries of civil servants working in the field of law enforcement. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Where?]] What I'm asking is that the congressman doesn't claim anything that doesn't have any reality. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Where does it include? Dr. Zoltán Kovács: You read the budget wrong! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.40]]
u2015-05-28-34	I now give the floor to Member István Simicskó for a normal comment.
u2015-05-28-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly comment on the budget for the sport sector, the draft budget for next year. It is precisely because we all know that sport is a universal value, an important national surplus, with which I think we should live and support it. The government is a sport-friendly government, sport is considered a strategic sector, and I believe that anyone who wants to do something for sport cannot be a bad person. Thank you very much for the trust and support that we have had so far for the various sporty proposals on the part of Parliament. What I would like to say in the context of the budget is the set of aspects that we have started with and that we are serving the consistent implementation of this. This is the threefold target system, and it is nothing more than that, if possible, all Hungarian children should play sports or as many Hungarian children as possible play sports. We want to ensure the conditions for this, which is why, among other things, the daily program of physical education has been launched, and a number of other sports recruitment programs that help it, which are certainly successful. We'd like to move on from that. The other important objective is to bring as many world competitions, sports competitions and international competitions as possible to Hungary, to the delight of Hungarian fans, and to create the opportunity for Hungarian athletes to develop in this way in front of Hungarian fans, and obviously also to demonstrate the traditional good Hungarian hospitality and organizational knowledge. The third is that we do need sports facilities, cultural sports halls, sports fields where we can carry out increasingly high-quality international competitions and domestic competitions, and, of course, it is necessary for our children to be able to play sports under the most cultural conditions, so that they can play at school, gymnasiums and much more. Allow me to briefly describe some figures. Among other things, the operation of the House of Hungarian Sports in connection with the implementation of the development concept of priority sports and sports facilities is supported by the support of the smaller volume of individual sports facility development needs in the 2015 central budget. They will receive the same level of support as before. On the one hand, the promotion of priority sports clubs is carried out in such a way that they receive asset management of the various properties, provide the necessary resources for this, and significantly increase their support in the 2016 budget, and increase the support of the six major metropolitan clubs by nearly 3.5 times. We know that the Olympic medals, watching 168 gold medals, 148 silver, 170 bronze medals, have been won by athletes of these six metropolitan clubs over the past few years, and we would like to continue to promote thousands of children's sports in this way to support the six metropolitan clubs in a prominent way. And we want to eliminate the delays both in the facilities and in the operations that have evolved, and we want to help and support the clubs. In addition to MTK, Vasas, Ferencváros, Budapest Honvéd, Újpest and BVSC supported it. They are provided by the government... [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] I said Iron, didn't I? Yeah. The government ensures the resources needed for the operation and, moreover, the implementation of the facility development programmes and the start-up of them, the first stage. Certain tasks have been transferred to the NFM, and I'm sure you know that, for example, the development of national Olympic Centres, the stadium development programme and many other major sports facilities development programmes, all of which will be included in the budget of the Ministry of National Development and will be financed from there. I would like to say that it is very important to recognise the effectiveness of Hungarian athletes, it is very important to appreciate our athletes, because they bring many, many joys to the Hungarian nation and strengthen our national self-esteem. Hungary's reputation is generated and generated worldwide. This is expressed in a way that means that we will increase the chapter budget for the financial recognition of sports results and sports activities by HUF 33.4 million, or HUF 2 billion to HUF 679 million. This, of course, covers, on the one hand, the Olympic awards that we pay Olympic champions, the annuity of the athlete of the nation, and the Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholar Scholarship. I feel that this is important to further strengthen our appreciation for our athletes. The amount provided for in the 2015 central budget will be the same as next year's support for the sport professional tasks of anti-doping activities and sport health care. That is also an important aspect. This total amounts to HUF 187.7 million. The funds allocated to support the sport of the disabled increase by HUF 120 million in the budget, which totals HUF 447 million. The year 2015 is the same as the professional support for non-Olympian sports, which is HUF 376 million, and the promotion of recreational port is HUF 4774.4 million, which is very significant. Support for student and student sports HUF 410.7 million, as well as spending on promoting sport are planned for HUF 22 million. The recognition and appreciation of sports performances will increase by HUF 2 billion, a planned amount that will be the remuneration of successful Hungarian athletes at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games and at the Paralympics. We hope that this will require a higher amount of money, and we hope that we will have a successful Olympics once again, just like London. Let me just say a few more words, ladies and gentlemen, about the fact that, in the three-pronged target system, as many domestic sporting events as possible should be organised, we will also support our objective, and we will also express it numerically in the budget. I'm just gonna mention a few. Here, for example, we were aiming for the final of the Men's Waterball League Champions League.In 2016 the government ordered nearly 150 million forints in order to successfully complete this Waterball Champions League final. We will organize in 2017, which we also won, as we have achieved international sports diplomacy success, not only the World Water Championship, but also the adult world judo championship and a world convention with many fans, athletes and sports professionals. For this, we planned 625 million HUF next year. This includes the fact that it is very important to increase, widen the supply base, and obviously a system of talent management and talent selection. The budget allocates 5.2 billion forints to support the academic system of national sports associations. I think we all agree that there is a need for us to embrace talent, and indeed for our top sport, for our competition sport, to ensure that we can make up for the success of Hungarian sport. In the course of competition and Olympic preparation, the XXXI. In terms of preparation for the summer Olympic Games, participation costs amount to HUF 2.6 billion. Obviously, this will still entail additional costs for Paralympic games. Support for the tasks related to the implementation of the sports development concepts will be available in 2016 for HUF 10.6 billion, and this appropriation will provide the development, professional programmes, facility development and reinforcement of 16 priority sports disciplines. We are talking about 16 sports, successful sports that have achieved very serious results in the Olympics, international competitions and world competitions: athletics, table tennis, wrestling, rowing, judo, kayak canoe, bicycle, skating, boxing, pentathlon, volleyball, sports shooting, tennis, gymnastics, swimming and fencing sports have been supported to this extent since we started this program a year and a half ago, and this was planned for the following year. [[10.50]] By 2020, we can plan the results of these 16 flagship sports on the basis of the development concepts of the sport sector, and the financial resources for this will be provided by the budget for next year. Compared to this, we have also created a catch-up framework, which supports 18 more sports in addition to the 16 flagship sports. Allow me to mention just a few: this taekwondo, horse sports, rugby, kickboxing, ski, dildo, lifting, badminton, archery, triathlon, karate, synchronization, and more. I believe that, in addition to supporting nearly 170 coaches in these sports disciplines - these coaches will be paid by the state, with which we can estimate them, we can keep them at home, and we can serve the effectiveness of Hungarian sport in this way - this is also important and the budget will also address this. Overall, we see that the budget of the sport sector has certainly been very careful in the sports industry about the important priorities, the objectives we have, what we want to achieve in the sport sector, and that there will be sufficient resources for this, so I would also ask the members of the Hungarian Parliament to support the adoption of the budget. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-36	I now give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-37	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk briefly about the budget for education and culture and that, unfortunately, we cannot see these sectors as the winner of the Budget Act. In terms of higher education, if you compare what is included in the draft budget for 2016, then we see that the budget of universities and colleges was about HUF 180 billion, while the number planned for 2016 was HUF 153 billion; therefore, public engagement has decreased significantly over the last five years in this respect. In view of this, the statement contained in the Higher Education Strategy is particularly serious that state aid cannot be significantly increased in higher education, and this is a strategy that would determine the future of the higher education sector in Hungary for the next 15 years. I think that this is a wrong direction, and even if we manage to involve market resources in the financing of higher education, despite the fact that the state's involvement and responsibility for higher education can not be reduced at the level of the budget. There will be no renewal of the career in higher education in 2016. This will not start as of September 2016, so we can say that after the six-year period of the Orbán government, there will be no change in the career of higher education. This is extremely serious, it will further increase Hungary's lag within the European Union. Today, a university assistant's net salary is 114 thousand forints per month, while if a fresh graduate takes up work on the labour market, he earns about 50 thousand forints more per month, so universities are in an extremely difficult position to keep the finest there and ensure that they can be replaced in the teaching staff as well. Women's fall behind compared to men also increased among higher education graduates since 2011. At that time, on average, a woman's late pay was 40,000 forints compared to a man, now it exceeds 50,000 forints, so this scissors, which is between men and women in terms of wages, continued to grow. I must mention a specific problem affecting universities in the Central Hungary region, and this is due to the logic of EU funding. R &amp; D funds do not come to these universities from European sources, which is why these universities are extremely difficult, which is why we are proposing an amendment to give these universities access to R &amp; D and innovation resources from Pálinkás's office, because it gives a significant part of Hungarian scientific activity if we only think of ELTE, SOTE, BME, but we also have to include the unfortunate Corvinus University in this line. Turning to the question of public education, it seems that if you want to keep the teacher's career model - and you obviously want to keep it - this can only happen if you can raise the wages of teachers at the expense of other public education sources. We remember that when the teacher's career model was adopted, the law had to be amended at the last minute, because the originally promised and planned increase could not be provided to the teachers, only 60 percent of it. After that, there will be an additional 10 percent increase in teachers' wages every September until 2017. At the same time, the minimum wage was not achieved, which was also promised to teachers that they would tie their salaries to the minimum wage at all times, so they would have ensured their value-proofness, but this too was unfortunately out of the regulation. Now they won't be able to hold this either. It can be seen from the whole education system that schools are practically maintaining themselves with tender money. It is extremely regrettable that extraordinary funds and tender funds are booked as regular resources, so that they can effectively ensure their daily operation. Gymnasium building and the lack of sports facilities were among the biggest three problems in schools that I interviewed. Daily physical education has been introduced in such a way that the proper infrastructure background is not available for this. This also creates dangerous situations, and I will only ask in parentheses who will be responsible if an accident occurs with a child in a physical education class due to the coercion caused by the regulation of everyday physical education, because it is quite common for children to run on the streets, for example, because there are no suitable facilities available. We will, of course, put forward an amendment to this, so that the government can provide the conditions that are necessary for this. Years after the introduction, we see that we are at about half of the facilities we need. Before the launch, the Prime Minister's Office carried out a survey, which, although not published, was leaked, and should have allocated about HUF 50 billion to the infrastructure development of everyday physical education in order to ensure a smooth introduction. Turning to the sphere of culture, we can't see any progress here. As cultural system change has failed in terms of values, we see that cultural institutions cannot expect anything good from funding. Actors' salary is extremely low, the salary of a beginner actor, say, in a rural theatre is HUF 120,000 net, if he has a diploma, it is HUF 129 thousand. This is not attractive to actors at all, but unfortunately, it is very common to have to fight for this salary. In Budapest theater, it is also possible that for financing reasons, actors are not paid at all for the summer holiday, so they either receive a minimum wage for two months or do not receive any money at all. Of course, there are sectors you can find, you can get. For example, they spend 80 billion forints on public media, but this is understandable, of course, as it is important to build a new media empire in the context of the war with Simicska. Staff working in MTV are also horrifying about it, and many of them are terrified about how much money this is for public media and how they can reasonably spend it. I would also like to give an example of the fact that an apparent stagnation is actually a reduction. This is also typical of supporting prominent theatres. Support for the priority theatres is included in the budget, but since this category has been created, there have been more priority theatres, so stagnation of the budget amounts actually means a reduction, as there are more theaters for the same amount, in this sense less the theatre they can translate. All in all, I have to say that the budget for education and culture is inadequate, that much more money should be spent on these sectors, so that we really take it seriously in Hungary that we want to put the future generation in a position, we want to make Hungarian young people competitive. Unemployment figures, which are extremely high among young people, are also due to the lack of attention to education and the lack of money. [[11.00]] What is missing from funding public education is practically ten billion, the absence of a career model in higher education will cause serious problems and speed up migration. That's not allowed. One of Hungary's biggest problems is emigration, the emigration of skilled workers. And if we do not invest budget resources in sectors that are important for young Hungarians, this emigration will continue to accelerate. That's not allowed. I ask you to support our amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-38	I now give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-39	Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, as a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, to say a few words on environmental issues that concern the budget. On the basis of the main heading figures of the 2016 budget, we can manage more appropriations than the previous period than professional tasks related to waste management. While the management of the National Waste Management Agency was available for HUF 9.7 billion in 2014, this appropriation also increased to HUF 12.7 billion in the 2015 budget and the 2016 draft budget law. I would like to say a few more words in support of nature conservation proposals, since nature conservation is particularly important, which is also reflected in the budget. In the financial period 2014-2020, the LIFE Programme will continue to finance large-scale integrated projects through direct EU funding. The EU is pressuring Member States to carry out projects of this type, which require a much greater share than previous LIFE projects, i.e. EUR 8-10 million instead of EUR 500 000 on average. Thus, the beneficiaries of LIFE integrated projects will only be public bodies, so there will be a much higher co-financing requirement for national park boards than before. Therefore, we can say that the national park directorates have a significant additional need for funding, in addition to running and other international projects that are now under way, supported by the portfolio, so it is very important that national park directors can use nearly HUF 40 billion on the basis of approved operational programmes. Obviously, it will also be a key issue for the boards of directors to set up, prepare and contribute to these proposals, which are of particular importance for the public basic tasks. As a continuation of the operational programme for the environment and energy completed in 2015, the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency until 2023 will be launched, where nature conservation will appear as an independent priority axis. 85 percent of the programme is financed by the European Union and the remaining part is financed from the domestic budget. It is of the utmost importance that, according to the annual development framework recently announced in the Government Decision, new habitat development programmes and other nature conservation improvements can be launched in the years 2015 and 2016 worth HUF 21 billion. The government's objective until 2023 is to restore another 100,000 hectares of land, ensuring the conservation of the natural values there. In the period starting with 2015, new development areas can be launched, along with Habitats measures, investments that underpin effective nature conservation management, and a system of conservation monitoring. The main elements of the projects are the presentation of natural values, the development of the demonstration infrastructure and the implementation of awareness-raising activities. We will launch a specific action under the priority axis. Dear fellow Members, I still have to draw attention to one of the most important environmental problems: the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary in 2008 during the previous governments regarding the air quality directive, the air quality limit for PM10. In view of this, in 2011 the Government adopted a cross-sectoral programme of measures to reduce small particulate matter. The corresponding amount for carrying out the tasks listed in the programme is HUF 54 million, which is used to carry out the annual scheduled tasks of the portfolio. However, this is clearly not the basis for the whole programme, inter-sectoral programmes appear at the general government level, especially in Community transport, transport transformation, and a reduction in the amount of small particulate matter generated by fuels. They will therefore be resolved in a combined cross-sectoral programme. This will have an impact of up to HUF 700 billion. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-40	I now give the floor to Andra Schiffer, on behalf of the LMP.
u2015-05-28-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, After listening to the environmental victory report of the Habony works, I think it would be good to repeat some of the facts from this budget bill. In the last 25 years, the next year's budget will be half the environmental register, with HUF 300 billion being withdrawn. [[Sándor Font: That's not true.]] environmental expenditure. Well, then, Mr. Font, say the word, and then tell me the truth. They're pulling 300 billion, no matter how much he screams. [[Sándor Font and Gyula Vantara intervene.]] Mr. President, take a sedative. Even if you yell, 300 billion is still 300 billion, they're half the cost of environmental protection. But let's keep going. A month ago, a law was passed, hopefully the Constitutional Court will execute this on Monday, which does not provide professional nature conservation treatment in protected natural areas. The point is that, if additional resources are withdrawn from the environment and the institutional conditions for professional nature conservation management in protected natural areas are not ensured, all that President Font spoke about a good hour ago in a more relaxed state of mind will be simply unrealized. It is quite simply that if institutional conditions are eliminated on one side, the other... [[András Tállai: What you're talking about is no better.]] I have already asked Mr State Secretary yesterday, if you have so many opinions, to press a button and get involved in the budget debate, I think this will be good for all of us, especially for voters. In addition to stupid jokes, I believe that Parliament's budgetary debate is about the government and the opposition collapsing their position. Thank you very much. [[András Tállai: Sallai R. Benedek report on the aid. Schiffer's not credible.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[András Tállai: The LMP is uncredited. Report from 215 acres.]] So we're still asking the government to keep track of until [[András Tállai: The LMP is uncredited, the LMP is uncredited.]] half of the environmental register will be taken away and destroyed by the institutional system, which is the guarantee... [[András Tállai: Report on the grants! The LMP is untrue.]] Mr. President, tell the Secretary of State to calm down, because he has a terrible record. [[András Tállai: I asked for the same thing yesterday.]]
u2015-05-28-42	Yeah. I have to ask Mr. Secretary of State to press a button, but not the button in his jacket.
u2015-05-28-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Which is why we basically asked for a word: [[András Tállai: Uncredited Party.]] it is worth reviewing the budget in terms of the expenditure to be incurred to strengthen the institutional system to combat corruption. The LMP proposed a HUF 1 billion surplus to the State Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and another HUF 1 billion to the National Court of Justice in order to make anti-corruption action more effective in Hungary. The LMP stated in its anti-corruption programme published in 2009 that the State Audit Office should be the centre of the fight against corruption. We would like to give the State Court of Auditors the task of conducting, for example, a mandatory assessment of political wealth growth. We see that, in the case of the Court of Auditors, there would be sufficient powers and professional apparatus to examine if a mayor, a Member, suddenly acquires too much wealth. Hungarian citizens are rightly outraged by the fact that it is becoming customary to spend 5-10-20 years in the mayor's seat or even in a State Secretary's seat, and suddenly acquires a wealth of fairy tales which, by the way, common sense cannot comprehend. [[11.10]] To these questions, how this is possible, people expect answers. In order for these answers to be produced, there is a need for a mandatory analysis of policymakers' wealth and an apparatus within the framework of the Court of Auditors, which will conduct this inquiry. In addition, the Court of Auditors may also have the task of not simply examining the various announcements of public interest, but of analysing the risks of corruption on the State machinery, within the functioning of the municipal organisation system. In the case of the prosecutor's office, even in the submission of the Prosecutor's Law, the LMP proposed that the prosecutor's duty should be compulsory so that, if an investigative journalist reveals various cases of abuse, he would disclose a preliminary investigation. Of course, we are aware that this requires extra apparatus and additional costs, so we recommend an additional HUF 1 billion in the prosecution chapter. If the question is how we take this away, the answer is extremely simple: on the one hand, at least HUF 200 billion could be saved by reducing VAT fraud, according to our own estimates, especially if Parliament accepted the proposal of the LMP, which is about the expulsion of offshore knights. If we shut down the financial pumps that the political elite has built over the past 25 years and reached out to various tax havens and pumped out the income from the Hungarian national economy, there would be more left in the state register. In addition, we think that by transforming the tax system, Andy Vajna will be watching only in his pocket a HUF 15 billion that would be better placed elsewhere, whether to strengthen the anti-corruption system or to reduce the debt of hospitals. And last but not least, if we are talking about the hedge side, it should also be said that even if we estimate it very strictly next year, there will be more than HUF 2 billion in government communication at different addresses. That's the last thing I'm gonna do. This position was expressed by LMP already in 2009 during the Bajnai government, then 400 million for government communication in the government budget. Today more than 2 billion forints, and then the government is very modest, because last year, when it was an election year, this amount was 3 billion. It's nothing more than hidden party funding. As long as government propaganda is possible, it is completely unnecessary to bring in laws about advertising tax, because it is obvious that through government orders and government orders, it is free to manipulate the press, according to its own taste, by the government. And, let's just think that the billions that go to government communication are currently helping citizens not to exercise their rights or fulfil their obligations, but to convey the empty mumbo jumbo that one of their communication guru is making up. Government communication today is about the mindset called national consultation, and it is about how they can proclaim their own glory from time to time on billboards. Hungary, the Hungarian people, do not need this. That is why we demand, on the one hand, that government propaganda be banned and that the funds for communication be reduced to the minimum, which is indeed necessary to ensure that the information necessary for the exercise of citizens' rights can be targeted. That is why we also demand that this so-called National Communications Office, agency, which is now being created, should be plowed as it is, closed down, since government communication is not only needed, there is no need to advertise state and municipal companies in monopoly situations. Anyone who doesn't have a competitor doesn't need advertising. For this reason, the billions that have been earmarked for this purpose in the budget are simply the robbery of voters, taxpayers. Dear Parliament, We are therefore proposing to increase targeted support for institutions that play a key role in the fight against corruption, as the Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor's Office consider LMP. In addition, we propose to increase the budget of the National Court of Justice by a further 1 billion because it is possible to ensure the publicity of the judiciary and not to reveal - driven by political intentions, I think - where one case is at the moment, in other cases where there are no such political intentions, even though the voter is in the dark. In parallel with the publicity of justice, we demand that precisely in the event of acts of public interest, public access is guaranteed to the point where the various criminal proceedings are at hand, whether it is the Trafikmutyi of Szekszárd or the case of Gábor Simon, voters have the right and the right to obtain accurate and credible information as to where a criminal proceeding is going. This requires a law on the publicity of justice, but in order to implement it, the courts need additional coverage. We therefore believe that, in part, by plotting government communication, by reducing VAT fraud, by banning offshoreisation and, for example, by transforming the toy tax system, that if Andy Vajna was freed from the 15 billion forints that you gave him, there would be plenty of funding to ensure that he has sufficient budgetary resources for fair purposes, to make the fight against corruption more effective, and to improve the public administration of justice. We have tabled amendments to this, and we are asking the government to accept this. And I would also like to continue to confirm that the objectives that are announced in a loud way in rural development and environmental policy cannot be achieved if the environmental budget is bled out, the 300 billion HUF that they want to withdraw and cannot be achieved if the national park organisation system is destroyed and the appropriate professional apparatus is not provided for the management of nature conservation land. Thank you very much. [[András Tállai: You are uncredited! A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2015-05-28-44	Secretary of State István Nagy asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote András Schiffer: citizens have the right to authentic information. In the spirit of this, I asked for the floor, as our fellow Member said that the environmental budget would be bled out, with HUF 300 billion less. Then let us add the truth, my dear fellow Member, because it is about the fact that the background institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture are placed under government offices in the framework of state reform, and that amount is in the government budget. So there's no mention of harming or bleeding out the environment. Not even because we are taking a number of measures and there are a number of measures that I think we will be proud of as a result of this cycle. Let me just say my narrowest Patriot, the question of Szigetköz. Almost 90,000 hectares of land will, I hope, become a natural park and be protected in the Isle; what is this, if not another success in nature conservation, if we can achieve this. In the field of waste management, there are many criticisms, but selective collection, recycling of waste, is the concept itself that I believe that waste management is all a value that can be said with confidence that it is a government that is responsible for managing it and a professional wallet that is responsible for managing it. And the results of this will be spectacularly possible after the transformation. My fellow Member mentioned the anomaly between national parks and the NFA, which was very much done here in Parliament. I would very much like to ask my fellow Member to tell the truth, the intention that is written in the law. Nothing else would happen, and the law wanted nothing more than to do that there is a tendering system that allows the fields to be applied for and the land to be released to the farmers as part of the programme. In the national park areas, we do not talk about any other area except those that are already on the payroll, which are already cultivated by farmers, of course with national park professional supervision. The law did not want to change anything other than the fact that the land leased by national parks through the single application system can now be managed by the NFA, the National Land Fund; but also with national park professional supervision, with the same strict control and the same areas that are already in the hands of farmers, the contracts will expire. [[11.20]] So there would be no damage, no impairment that the Member has outlined. It is very right that you are concerned about nature, but you have to unravel it, because you said it, which is why I quote: citizens have the right to authentically inform you that then let us tell you the whole truth, let us tell you what is real, and let us not stop halfway through a sentence. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-46	State Secretary András Tállai also asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-47	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, In my brief comment, I would like to stress that Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, has been revealed on the basis of his speech that he does not know the budget and is therefore unable to give a credible statement to the public. Therefore, if the President would allow me, I would like to give a printed copy of the budget to Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group [[Defiance.]] to be informed and then to speak for the rest of the debate. Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But then give it to me. He's handing over the little book with the budget to Dr. Andra Schiffer. It's a rare applause, it's a revelation. Dr. Robert Répássy: Can I have some?]]
u2015-05-28-48	That budget was pretty small, little bookie. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: But it's all there.]] But let's move on. As an independent Member, I give the floor to Congresswoman Szabó Timea.
u2015-05-28-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government itself recognises in the Convergence Programme that, in which it also reports on the EU budget for next year, support for the rich and wasteful investments are based on an unsustainable and inhumane social policy. In this programme, the Fidesz-KDNP government boasts that social benefits and expenditure do not increase in line with GDP growth, and this surplus can be used by the government for the 1 per cent reduction and for the 113 billion capital increase of the state company in Paks and for the maintenance of stadium investments. So the government itself admits that the 2016 budget is once again based on the total lack of solidarity, the humiliation of the poor and the fallen. The children, the disabled, the nurses, the large families, the people who are out of work will again and again be worse; and the circle of friends of Lőrinc Mészáros, Antal Rogán, János Lázár and Viktor Orbán will be better again. The next year's tax reduction is again the top 10 percent earning some extra money, and the remaining 90 percent of society is back to bad. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's look at some specifics. After five years, Zoltán Balog and Fidesz-KDNP finally admitted that there is child hunger in Hungary. This is already a step forward, as you have denied this in recent years. The promises that actions would follow the realization, but they did not. Although the framework for the eradication of child hunger will rise by HUF 9 billion next year, we welcome the fact that the food supply will finally be extended to children in kindergarten and kindergarten, but they still refuse to address the most serious problem, and this is the holiday meal. The planned amount does not exceed half a million children's access to warm food during winter and summer holidays. Do you know, fellow Members, that this year's winter break was extra long, 16 days old and that the summer holiday will be more than 70 days old? Do you know what it's like when a child doesn't eat properly for 70 days? [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: You don't know either.]] For example, Lajos Szűcs Fidesz thinks of this issue when he laughs at the Committee on Budgets when I submit a proposal to separate the children's meals for the summer plus HUF 9 billion so that we can make up for this deficiency, he tells me that I am a hack campaigner and that I, as a PM, are a burden for the Fidesz people. That is his contribution to this issue in the Committee on Budgets. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This may not be how it was said.]] Far be it from me to wish for your children the deprivation, my honourable fellow members of the Government, which today 600,000 Hungarian children suffer, but for a moment in the summer, when they are in a luxury beach hotel, think of the children of Csongrád, Baranya or Nógrád, the hundreds of thousands of children who are undernourished, hungry, and for whom the summer break does not mean the absolute joy, but the deprivation. Let's look after the children, fellow Members. [[Noise in the pro-government lines.]] I'm afraid that's the case - even the alleged wage development of social workers. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: No one is shouting. Don't say that. No one's yelling.]] Your promises are not worth a penny, my honourable members of the Government. Looking at next year's figures, what we see is that 90 percent of social workers' salaries will continue to be bottom-up. Do you, fellow Members, know how much the minimum is now? KSH didn't report any data this year, but we know from last year's data that it is 87 500 HUF. Well, that's what a daycare worker or a social worker or a nurse who takes care of our parents, our grandparents, is taking care of her today. It's a fraction of what we say, John Lazarus or any of you will be blaming me for cocktails over the weekend. Today an article was published on delmagyar.hu, which reports that more than half of the taxpayers are still earning under the minimum living in 2015, half of the taxpayers, so who is working. Since the minimum wage, rounded to 69 thousand forints, is also mentioned in the 2013 minimum salary, 87 500 forints. It was calculated, in the same article, that last year, based on the cheapest products in a chain of stores, what the poorest can afford, I say: for the working poor with this money. A kilo of rice, a pound of pasta, a pound of pork fat, a box of sour cream, six potatoes, four apples, a tomato, a paprika and an onion. This is what they can spend on food a week, and we are talking about 3.2 million people in Hungary today. That's what you give the social workers, that's what you think the wage development is today. 1.4 billion HUF is planned to raise the wages of the graduates' daycare workers, which also means a few thousand HUF wage increase, and does not concern 14 percent of daycare workers, as 86 percent do not have a higher education degree. Zoltán Balog admitted that this was a problem. But in the same way, nurses, doctors, with a few thousand forints wage increase, will be able to spot their eyes, while another 58 billion forints will be added to the stadium construction next year. State Secretary Károly Czibere also acknowledged that child protection in Hungary is a disaster. There is no need to mention the cases of island szentmiklós and other cases now, and my fellow Members are familiar with these horrific cases of child abuse. In this profession, there is the highest level of out-of-workers, as workers cannot work in a system that is so under-funded. Despite this, the same amount of child protection services will be available next year, i.e. HUF 22 billion. The support of the Commissioner's children's homes, support services and social work on the street will be reduced by HUF 1 billion, while the government will applaud HUF 614 million for Rachel Orbán's favorite international gastronomic competition. You're hurting the children again and again. And we didn't talk again about the fact that 650,000 people could be without benefits this year because of the social benefits conversion. We do not know the exact number yet, which is why it is irresponsible to talk about or accept next year's budget before submitting the accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, Mihály Varga recently said that there is so much money now, but we know that this is a lie. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] There is money, ladies and gentlemen, but we are not spending it on what is needed. [[To interrupt Peter Cseresnyés:]] Well, yeah, because even though they're yelling from the fidesz benches again, it's not Paksi Zrt. It is necessary to spend 113 billion forints on its recapitalisation. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Nobody yelled, you yell. He's claiming untruth.]] It's not a joke that has to go to the wrong public media, it's 80 billion forints or 58 billion forints to spend on stadium development again. Instead of a budget that deepens poverty and inequality, honourable Members, the PM proposes preparing the budget for the basic income. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Talk about why you quit the LMP.]] There is an immediate need for two-step support and an increase in earnings. In the first stage, the conditions for the introduction of basic income should be established. This is the creation of a multi-key, fair personal income tax system, a serious - I repeat, serious - anti-corruption package and a package of measures leading to an anti-oligarchic and economic turnaround. These measures will free up a budget of HUF 2000 billion that will allow the introduction of basic income radically reducing poverty in the second stage. [[11.30]] Details of the introduction of the basic income have been presented in the PM's already published study. 50,000 forints a month for adults, 25,000 forints for children and 75,000 forints for pregnant women. And last but not least, we have a minimum wage of 100,000 forints to encourage workers to work. Until we introduce this, however, we need immediate firefighting. It must be guaranteed that the lowest net salary should not be less than the minimum in the public sector in the first round. This would be possible from 70 billion forints, and would increase the wages of healthcare workers or social workers, for example, immediately. On the next step, this level should be raised to the level of the net minimum wage of HUF 100,000 by introducing the basic income, as we presented at the PM conference three months ago, where the figures are otherwise available in the published book. We need to raise the framework for the start of the Commissioner programme in order to help the future generation thrive in poorer regions as well. We cannot allow us, fellow Members, to recreate poverty in such a drastic way in these break-down layers, to send the message to future generations that you and even your child and your granddaughter will live in poverty. We have to take care of that. Otherwise, this could be solved with a relatively low amount of money, such as the money for the European final of the Bocuse d'Or cook competition. Orbán Rachel may be a little sad, but she realizes that the needy children need this money more. It is necessary to extend children's meals to holidays and weekends, and to guarantee that all 650 000 children in need can get warm food during the summer holiday and throughout the year. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Do you know what you're talking about?]] That would be possible with an extra 40 billion forints. Raise the amount of child and family allowances frozen seven years ago by 20%. This would also be a solution for 70 billion forints, and the introduction of basic income would solve this problem in the long run. There is also a need to increase the payout period for the job search support to 9 months, and we could solve this now with HUF 60 billion. In fact, the introduction of basic income could support the search for real marketable jobs instead of forcing job seekers to do public work as a fake solution. For all of this, as I said, the stadium development program, public media support, Paks II. The amount intended to expand is the source to spend, honourable Members, on what is really needed. PM's proposal is therefore this two-step model, in which, with the introduction of the basic income, poverty would finally disappear for the first time in Hungary, and poverty would be drastically reduced in the short term, and the appreciation of working people would also increase. Instead of wasting and supporting the wealthy, honourable Members, you should also vote for a united and solidarityful Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: A huge applause.]]
u2015-05-28-50	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2015-05-28-51	Thank you very much. Firstly, my dear Secretary of State Tállai, thank you very much for this budget. [[He's showing me the minibook.]] The thing is, it's very close to being on a beer mat. My question is where, on the other hand, is the tax return promised on the beer mat, which your prime minister promised in the summer of 2010. [[Defiance in the ranks of State Secretarys.]] The story isn't funny because it's a budget. My question is, where's the tax return promised for the beer mat? After all, many small businesses in Hungary today are destroyed by the fact that the tax system, the tax return system, is virtually opaque, and this creates additional burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. I would just like to reply to Mr István Nagy, Secretary of State, that it does not reassure me terribly that environmental background institutions have been moved to government offices. That's one of them. The other thing I would like to say is that what the Minister or the Secretary of State has in mind is the purpose of nature conservation land, and how these can be achieved, these are two different things. From the time they took the land from the state institution, the national park network, which has the knowledge to use it for nature conservation purposes, they have already taken it back from the level of nature conservation that has already been achieved. The law that was passed before the House, which ended with national parks being deprived of their land, indeed had a rational purpose to have a unified management of state land. We have proposed that we can accept this if national park land is taken out of this set. That's not what happened. National parks have been deprived of land, but land standardisation has not been achieved in many other sectors. That's the big deal, and that's where the angle came out of the bag, that you didn't want the land management for a single purpose, you didn't want the ground robbery. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Where is the land of the Sallai? Dr. András Schiffer: Good location...!]]
u2015-05-28-52	State Secretary András Tállai asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If Mr Schiffer has spoken to you, let me tell you in a moment what the difference is between LMP and the tax policy of the ruling parties. The difference is that LMP would like to raise tax. Yesterday's keynote speech also said that he wanted to raise personal income tax [[Dr. András Schiffer: And cut the VAT!]] for everyone, the LMP. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Not everyone, the rich!]] It has been said earlier that it would like to introduce a green tax. So the LMP is on the side of the tax increase. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Pay the rich!]] While Fidesz-KDNP is in favour of tax reductions. This is also included in the budget, and it is included in the tax package to be negotiated on Saturday, according to which the personal income tax rate will continue to decrease by one percent, four million people will have more income. This means 120 billion forints for people, so they can spend more on their own needs. Moreover, the rate of family tax relief will continue to increase, and in the case of children with two children it will double in four years. The Fidesz-KDNP government has always stressed that it is on the side of families [[Dr. András Schiffer: Which families? Szabó Timea intervenes. Dr. Répássy Róbert: Sallai family!]] and thus families raising children... Mr. President! You don't get to... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács:...protection for the Secretary of State? The president's ringing the bell.]] But it does.
u2015-05-28-54	It's a perfectly legitimate request from Mr. Secretary of State. I would ask my fellow Members to accept that he is speaking now.
u2015-05-28-55	Thank you very much. So, overall, let's just say that LMP wants to raise tax and Fidesz-KDNP reduced tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-28-56	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-57	Thank you very much. I'm sorry István Nagy Secretary of State isn't in the room. I also wanted to comment on the section on environmental protection, although I will explain a little more later in my regular comment. In fact, this volume contains the 2016 budget and its annexes that from 320 billion to 233 billion budget appropriations for the environment will be reduced. What we don't know is that out of the 114 billion that's on the government offices' budgets in the Prime Minister's Office chapter, what's in it for the environmental authorities' budget. It does not appear separately, so we do not know whether it will remain or if its personnel will go down, and we are very afraid of it, and the employees of the environmental authority are also afraid that the already highly bled environmental authority will work with a smaller staff. So spending on environmental protection is reduced from 2 percent of public finances to 1.5 percent, so surely it will be less than HUF 87 billion, and this is only what you have shown here, while we can all see that from week to week cases that show that much stronger environmental authority, much stronger environmental sector, don't give God, need an independent ministry, and as the domestic environment is being built at this rate, there will be no good end to it. We can see the example either on Scented Road, we can see the example either in the water pollution in Abasar last year or in Balmazújváros that in recent years, since it has been on the Fidesz government, the environmental situation has been deteriorating. Once again, I will explain this with specific numbers later in my ordinary speech. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-58	I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, for one reason in the first place, I think that, in addition to the speech by Mrs Szabó Timea, it is not possible to go silently. On the one hand, I think it is deeply sad and bitter when hatred, malice and a saying about a Member has nothing to do with reality. Congresswoman, if you're going to listen to yourself say that the Fidesz is hurting the children, that you're digging into the privacy of others, I think you should be causing a little psychological trouble, but you're going to solve it. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] If, in relation to the budget, as the Secretary of State has said, he does not understand that more than HUF 120 billion will remain in people's pockets [[Szabó Timea: There will be more of yours! Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] And it's driven only by malice and hatred, it's also sad. [[11.40]] On behalf of my fellow pro-government Members, I would like to respectfully ask ourselves for a statement that was an untruth among many. You said that government representatives would spend the summer in luxury coastal hotels. You may have met many Members there, but please don't generalize. [[Szabó Timea: I'm getting information from the press!]] That's not true. The pro-government representatives have a constituency and will look after the electorate. Personally, I'm going to spend the summer in melon land. I ask you with respect not to start with yourself. [[Szabó Timea: Oh, no!]] Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-28-60	I am now giving Mr Nándor Gúr the opportunity to comment in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member of the Council, Mr Secretary of State, your tax reduction is like a million new jobs in the economy. You know these two promises. Orbán, but maybe you used it before 2010. [[András Tállai: 450 thousand of them are already there!]] There will be a million new jobs in the economy and a radical tax reduction. Their radical tax cuts have been about 40-50 new taxes being introduced over the last five years. Some had an increase of 1,200 percent, remember the soil load charge, but I could give you other examples. Now, by reducing personal income tax by 1 percent, approximately HUF 120 billion is being spent in the budget to achieve this, but this does not concern those who are in a position to benefit most from tax incentives. For a person who earns a HUF 1 million income, 1 percent is obviously worth HUF 10 000, while for a person with a minimum wage it is worth HUF 1000. You think this is a solidarity, that's a fair one, is that a fair tax system? But it's not just personal income tax. Take a look at the fact that if you spend 120 billion dollars on this and basically give benefits to the wealthier, what do you do, say, with regard to the two children in terms of tax relief? Against the 120 billion, 15 billion forints are sacrificed. Instead of reducing the amount of VAT to, say, 5 per cent, the 27 per cent of Europe's or world summits in terms of basic food, instead they move in part to talk about how you reduce VAT in a moderate manner. No, you think people are stupid! They are for their own good, for the good of their moonyards, while refusing to provide for vulnerable people, they do not want to provide them with help. That's your policy. That's a shame. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-28-62	Now we are going back to normal speeches. In doing so, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to address three main issues relating to the budgetary aspects of the 2016 budget bill before this House. 1. The characteristics of 2016 and the emergence of the new operational programmes; 2. the role of the so-called European Semester; and finally, 3. the balance of the use of EU funds so far. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year will be very different from this year or one of the last years, as 2016 is the first year when, with the end of the previous EU budget cycle, only EU support for 2014-2020 will be available this year. I believe that it is important to repeat the framework figures, as we heard yesterday at the beginning of the general debate. By 2020, more than EUR 34 billion of funding will be coming to our country. This, together with the necessary domestic co-financing, represents a HUF 12 thousand billion development. I believe that everyone agrees that Hungary is facing a huge opportunity in the next seven years and in the coming year. The government intends to take advantage of this great opportunity by setting up ten operational programmes and a much more transparent institutional system for the operation of this. I would like to mention that seven of the operational programmes have already been approved by Brussels, the European Commission. Among these programmes, I would like to highlight in particular the programmes that best serve economic development, job creation, environmental and transport development. The largest envelope for bringing economic growth to the centre is the so-called operational programme for economic development and innovation, which, in short, is referred to as GINOP. This includes a total of HUF 2730 billion. I note, ladies and gentlemen, that the first successful proposals for the 2014-20 development period were also linked to GINOP, with 107 small and medium-sized enterprises receiving nearly HUF 4 billion in EU funding recently. The operational programme for the development of areas and settlements with a budget of 1230 billion, which is called "TOP" in short terms, covers the local development of counties and cities with county rights outside the Central Hungary region. In view of my narrower Patria, for example, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County has 93 billion forints of resources. The combined amount of aid for environmental development, energy and transport development managed in a separate operational programme exceeds HUF 2400 billion. The operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, the COHEP, spends 1174 billion forints on flood and drought control, development of municipal water supply, sanitation and waste management. My fellow Member, Jenő Manninger, has already spoken about the next year's chapters on waste management. I am just mentioning that this source is very much needed, because sewage treatment is not yet complete in Hungary, and in Abaúj, for example, there are dozens of settlements waiting for this investment to be carried out in accordance with EU derogation. The source therefore makes this possible. COHEP also includes improvements to increase energy efficiency, with a total of more than HUF 308 billion in resources, within which retail support is expected to amount to HUF 120 billion. I believe that this is a major step forward in the new fiscal cycle, helping to meet the Europe 2020 objective. I feel that, in line with the EU's objectives, this budget for next year will help us to take a big step towards achieving the Europe 2020 strategy, not Brussels, but for ourselves. Finally, the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, the so-called IKOP, envisages more than HUF 1000 billion, mainly, as we have heard, to build the remaining road sections needed to connect the border and the county centres and electrify the railway lines. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of my narrower Patriots, we in Zemplén have a right to expect this extremely important EU resource, so that, for example, the electrification of the 80/C Mezőzombor-Sátoraljaújhely railway line, which has been renewable from the internal sources of the MÁV for years, can finally be completed by 2018. Also, I believe that there may be a four-tracking of 37 coming down from Miskolc, which will cross the Mountain and Zemplén, between Gesztely-Miskolc, Gesztely-Mezőzombor and Sátoraljaújhely. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, there is no time to look at the full range of operational programmes due to the limited time limits, but I believe that the operational programmes listed clearly indicate that the country's economic development base and framework are well founded and given next year, and we can maintain a 2.5 percent increase in GDP, mainly through EU funds. [[11.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Secondly, I would like to turn to the relationship between the European Semester and the budgetary bill. It may seem a little exotic when, in the midst of the university exam period, I use the word "semester," but it is more about the European semester. It is about the European Union's attempt to coordinate Member States' budgetary and economic policies in the context of an established procedure. Yes, the European Semester was launched during the Hungarian EU Presidency, and one of the novelties of this year is that the government, together with the convergence and national reform programme submitted to the European Commission, has prepared a draft budget bill. I believe that this will help in particular to ensure the proper consistency between these documents and the predictable economic policy environment. Each year, the Commission presents country-specific recommendations on programmes submitted by Member States. I note that for Hungary, we will find only five Commission recommendations instead of last week. The recommendations give a more favourable assessment of the steps taken so far by Hungary than before, particularly in terms of combating tax evasion or improving the labour market situation. It can therefore be seen, ladies and gentlemen, that the results of the economic policy change that began in 2010 are also recognised by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, allow me to give a very brief description of the lessons relevant to the current balance sheet of the 2007-13 budget cycle for the 2016 budget bill. Taking into account the debates over the past years, I consider it particularly important to mention that in the 2014-20 development period, the tendering of EU funds takes into account three main principles: targeting, efficiency and simplicity. As far as focus is concerned, a more structured approach than before could be the result of a total of ten operational programmes, thus simplifying the whole system. Furthermore, development goals should clearly serve economic development, competitiveness and job creation. Yes, in my opinion, there is also hope that we can reduce the unemployment rate to 6 percent next year. Efficiency can also be facilitated by increasing the share of resources of a reimbursable nature, by increasing the aid intensity of 50 per cent or by increasing preferential loan guarantees and capital programmes, so that projects for return, self-sustaining and growth can be supported. Finally, the simple use of resources, in addition to the reformed institutional system and electronic tendering, is best ensured by remedying the problem of post-financing and self-financing, i.e. non-public debt companies are exempted from the obligation to provide collateral and the own contribution should be provided during the final phase of the project, while the investment can also provide the necessary collateral for borrowing. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-64	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-28-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we agree that defence must be a national matter. And I very much hope that it is also in the national interest in our increasingly dangerous world, and it is not a luxury at all to develop and maintain a modern, well-equipped force. Unfortunately, by 2016, conditions had developed in the Hungarian Defence Service, which resulted in the fact that the ability to operate was still maintained and that the defence was able to perform its tasks successfully, only and exclusively due to the continued and dedicated work of the military staff, soldiers and defence workers. I'm pretty sure it wasn't on the government or on the defense political leadership. I am very sorry that we are discussing the 2016 budget without seeing the closing date for 2014 as, in particular, in the defence chapter, we see very interesting data from this, for example, regarding numbers and fluctuations, and also about the depreciation of technical assets, because as we know, from 2012 to 2013, we can see an increase in depreciation of 8-9 percent in the closing account, which proves that the technical assets are rapidly getting older in the Hungarian Defence Office. If we look at this year's budget, we see some increase - a matter of fact - which was already very topical. By the way, I am pleased that the government has heard at least part of what the MSZP has been saying for years, and especially as regards the increase in salaries, which my fellow Members have mentioned earlier today. The fact that the average 30 percent salary increase can be achieved is a very positive thing. If we look at the budgets of the last few years, we can say that the 2016 budget is the sixth consecutive budget in which the funds for defence are below 1% of GDP. That never happened before 2010. Let's see what the surplus is, because there is one, that's a fact. Nearly 70 percent of the HUF 48 billion surplus is due. That's very commendable. It is also very good, and I would like to point out that the law enforcement and defence stipends have been established, and we can see that the defence stipend will rise from HUF 38 650 - which is still the amount of civil servants' salary - to HUF 40 140. I think it's a very commendable thing. But I would also like to point out that the civil servant's salary base is still HUF 38 650, so at the Hungarian Defence Office nearly 6,000 military workers are affected by the fact that they do not receive wage development who are in the status of civil servants. Therefore, their wage development must be dealt with in the future. We know that because of the difficult circumstances that have developed over the last five years, they also carry out a lot of important tasks in the teams, their work is also essential. There was a government decision in 2012 that was determined to increase the defence budget by 0.1 percent from 2016. The fact is that this is achieved numerically, but, as I mentioned, almost 70% of the salary is due to the increase. And the rest is divided between several lines and several organizations. I would like to highlight the resources for development. In 2004, there was a parliamentary resolution which defined the direction for the development of the defence. The government has repealed this, and a ten - year development plan has been established, which is top secret. In recent years, we've been getting used to the government treating a lot of things like this. As part of this development plan, HUF 5.3 billion has been earmarked for development in the 2016 budget, but it doesn't really show what the amount is going to be specifically for, what technical means it is going to acquire. The remaining development amount will be those programmes that started before 2010, such as the Mistral weapons system, the purchase of VHF radios and the car procurement programme. So if we look at the fact that this 5.3 billion for a ten-year development plan is enough, I have to say that it is more than nothing, but we are aware of how much this amount can mean in terms of technical means in the defence. I would like to point out that the defence has received new tasks for this year; here I would like to highlight the organisation of public events. [[12.00]] This year, the defense received HUF 760 million. I can't agree to the fact that this task is carried out by the military. Based on the experience of the last few months, when we saw that by 15 March there was an organization of government propaganda, we could mention a lot of things here from the bus ride of schoolchildren, I cannot agree that the Hungarian Defence Office should be burned by government propaganda tasks and events. However, as we read in the Hungarian Gazette, more than HUF 1 billion will be added to this task this year, and next year we can talk about HUF 550 million for the same task. If we add these together, I have to say that we get an amount that is almost the same, which is defined for the following task: operating expenses of the Hungarian Defence Forces, including the team-level task of carrying out domestic exercises and training. So what we are now talking about is that what we now see in this year's and next year's budgets is public event planning, which I do not think is the responsibility of the defence portfolio, is almost identical to what is otherwise foreseen for domestic practices. Here I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that the Hungarian Defence Office is still not an event planning company, and it is still not a set of state holidays, but it performs important tasks at both domestic and international level. If we look at the number of defenses, we'll find that we're talking about a deficit of 4,200. The 2016 budget figures show a further decline in the number of defences. If the government wants to be meaningful - and I think it is a task, not a love, not a question - to improve the perspective of the stock, also its working conditions, because not only is the increase in the salary, but it is also a very important element of the two mentioned above, then, among other things, pay attention to the availability of posts, as this is part of the proper operation. For now, what we can see is that, when amending the law on the status of soldiers, this kind of incapacity, which is mainly due to a lack of money, is being compensated for by such legislative flexible changes and carvings, so that the current stock can perform these tasks. I don't think that's the solution, the whittling, but the fact that you have to be able to fill the numbers. What I would also like to point out is that, in addition to the extra resources, the development of the papal base airport - we have already talked about this much - is identified, the costs of countering the terrorist organisation Islamic State, and the programmes approved in the ten-year plan. However, we do not see these, and we do not see exactly what these developments are, in the development programmes, and in the papal base airport and in the action against the Islamic State, we do not see the exact figures in the budget of 16 what this actually means and what it will do. I think it is important to highlight that the next annual budget does not show at all when the government will implement the helicopter acquisition that has become extremely urgent in recent years. Fidesz knew very well from the opposition when the operating hours of helicopters would expire. This was still public data then and accessible data. Although the Minister of Defence promised that, when the new government was established in spring 2014, the first thing the new government will do is issue an open, transparent, genuine competition tender on the basis of prepared working papers to resolve this issue in the long term. None of this happened, we managed to buy three Mi-8 helicopters under rather strange circumstances. In any case, it's not a long-term solution. About this tender, how the rotating wing capacity will be resolved in the long term, nothing can be seen. This also affects the air ambulances, and it also affects the police. So this is a matter of urgency. There is currently no funding for this in the budget. I could also mention the rigid wing transport capacity, the A-26s, and we can't see anything to modernize this. I would like to point out once again that it is important that conscious improvements be made. It is important that resources are used and identified at an appropriate and predictable rate. Once again, I would like to say that it is very commendable that the staff's salary development will be achieved. Be sure to take care of the public servants, the nearly 6,000 people, so that they can get paid as soon as possible. I would just like to point out once again that the development, maintenance and improvement of the capacity of the forces is not a luxury, but a national interest, the interests of Hungary, the interests of the federal system in which Hungary participates and serves our security. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Many socialists applaud.]]
u2015-05-28-66	State Secretary Tamás Vargha has applied for a comment. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is one thing we can certainly agree with Mrs Márta Demeter that defence is a national matter, but apparently the Member is here to bury the budget and not to praise it. Nevertheless, some praises were given from his mouth, but the facts are stubborn. I think that the intention of the Member to bury this year's 2016 defence budget is definitely denied, because if we look at the figures, we can see that the total amount of support for 2016 has increased by 22 percent compared to the previous year, and that the total amount of support increased by revenue, the total amount of expenditure is almost HUF 300 million next year. We can remember that at the NATO Welsh Summit in September 2014, the Prime Minister announced that Hungary will begin to bring its defence expenditure closer to the NATO average, and this has started, and because of its better-than-expected performance in the national economy, this increase also exceeds the growth value calculated in its strategic plan for the defence portfolio for the period 2013-2022. Indeed, in July this year, as part of the soldier's career program, their salary increases by about 30 percent, and from 2016 to 2019 it will increase by 5-5 percent each year. In addition to the operating costs of the Hungarian Defence Health Centre, the budget includes support from the defence portfolio. There's enough to carry out military technology programs. This appropriation is intended to cover the continuation of the development programmes started in previous years and covers the employment of around 25,533 military civil servants and government officials, which will provide the opportunity to fill up the vacant posts, in particular for the contractual staff group, as an impact on the development of salaries this year. Let us mention the Kratochvil Károly Honvéd High School and College in Debrecen, which is also included in this budget. I think that national affairs and national holidays are inappropriate and should not be confused with government propaganda. We celebrated our national holiday on 15 March, and I wouldn't call it government propaganda. [[12.10]] The Hungarian Army has a rotating wing helicopter and a rigid wing capability at the moment, and according to the government's decision, when the government decides to do so, that development can take place at that time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-68	I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-69	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Before I begin to think about it, allow me to refer back to two of my fellow Members and to give them a thought. I would first like to share with Mrs Demeter the knowledge that you referred to developments and, for example, referred to Mistral anti-aircraft missiles. I would just like to remind you that almost ten years ago, the then Minister of Defence, Ferenc Juhász, closed that barracks in Nagyoros and the drégélypalánk shooting range for economic reasons where they were actually installed. These are two settlements in the county of Nógrád, where there was a decade-old tradition of the 5th Fire Red of Hungary, and in fact it ceased from that moment on. I would like to add to the thought of the other Members by the fact that my fellow Member, President Richard Hörcsik, has launched the idea of why the use of EU funds is important in terms of economic development. I would like to relate to his line of thought here, because in our budget, I would be dealing with the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade within the budget. I think it is important to highlight what my fellow Member, Mr President, said because all these economic development goals have an external economic potential. On the one hand, because we give businesses the opportunity to come to Hungary, to settle down. On the other hand, and this is at least as important, if not more important, that we can give Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises or stronger Hungarian businesses the opportunity to become part of external economic processes on the external markets and launch products for foreign markets. In fact, this is the line of thought that I think is a very important aspect of the budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. After all, we have talked several times here, over the years, perhaps a decade and a half, perhaps a polychemistry has always been taking place within the Committee on Foreign Affairs and within the walls of the House, whether there is sufficient money in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Foreign Affairs and Trade Department, since more than 115 representations, embassies, Consulates-General, consular offices, which actually represent Hungary in the world and have always had a debate about whether the resources are sufficient, whether the money is sufficient to operate them well, according to the objectives. Well, the budget before us is reassuring in this respect, because we could say, even when we discussed this year's budget, that spending on the administration of foreign representations had a 5% increase compared to last year, but the budget for 2016 also represents an increase of almost 13 percent, compared to this year's average, and that, under the title of management of foreign representations, the expenditure is increased by at least 10 percent. There will be 12 percent more for personal benefits, and more than twice as much for investments and renovations next year than this year. It is only about the benchmark, and it also shows that it is very important for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to be able to create better economic relations and to create better markets for Hungarian businesses and to help Hungarian businesses. For example, HUF 3.5 billion will be available for operating expenses of new foreign representations, of which 550 million will be allocated to the Chicago Consulate General, which was closed by the MSZP in 2009. The strategic objective of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is to develop foreign economic attaché at each foreign representations in order to enforce Hungarian foreign economic interests. The budget also provides over HUF 2 billion in additional resources for this purpose. In March 2015, the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade intends to strengthen its positions in Latin America, Africa, Asia and the Pacific region, in the spirit of an external economic strategy announced by the Prime Minister. All the background work carried out in addition to the Ministry's work makes it very important to support the Institute of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, as this is the background institution where researchers and consultants can strengthen this strategy even further on their own research directions, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will spend some HUF 200 million in the next period, which means a 22 percent increase; and 34 million HUF will be added to the development of the External Action Survey and the European Mirror. These are all publications that are essential for professionals to regularly gather knowledge of foreign and European processes. There has also been a significant increase in cultural diplomacy, as it is also unique in the Central European region that the budget of the Balassi Institute with a total of 23 agencies in 21 countries will increase by around 12 percent in 2016 compared to 2015, including 11 percent for personal benefits and 19 percent for individual expenses. In 2015, a new institute will be opened in three places: Baku, Cluj-Napoca and Ljubljana. So next year's budget growth will be largely necessary for the financing and operation of these new institutions. In the appropriations managed by the chapter, allow me to highlight another very important programme, the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship project, the experience of which we discussed recently in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament. This is also very important, because the scholarship system can become an important tool for attracting talent through various bilateral contracts and bilateral agreements with countries, and it will allow young people, university students who are completing and returning to Hungary in the future, because of their knowledge in Hungary and their improved relationship with Hungary, to provide some kind of contact capital for our diplomats working outside or for Hungarian businesses wishing to invest in that country. So it is very important to learn about Hungarian culture, and through it, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will be able to build a network of contacts that will be better used over time than it is today. This means that today the 2340 places announced for this autumn's start have received more than 3,200 applications, which also means that the government, with a flexible decision, has increased its framework, the framework of this grant scheme more than three times. So from 1.5 billion to 5.5 billion, which, I stress, is a framework, basically based on the contracts, you have to spend what is needed. Among the funds spent on international development cooperation, special mention is given to HUF 40 million in support of public, higher education institutions, kindergartens, health, cultural, social and ecclesiastical institutions in Transcarpathia and Western Ukraine. Eximbank is a very important part of the institutional asset system for export development and investment promotion, which is included in the 2016 draft budget for its capital increase with a budget of HUF 20 billion for interest compensation. [[12.20]] As a whole, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, as a whole, can be said to be sufficient for the predictable financing of the portfolio and for the implementation of foreign economic-oriented foreign policy and Hungarian interests, as planned for 2016. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-70	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed, the representative of Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to this House a few questions in the 2016 budget debate, which, according to my judgement and Jobbik's opinion, is not covered in this budget, and I believe that we are dealing with problems that continue to exist over the years, decades, and so far we have not been able to find a satisfactory solution. It is a first and a very important issue for me, with which legislation has a quarter of a century of debt, it is a question of animal protection. I know very well that we have debated this issue here in this House many times, and there was agreement on the most important issues about the Animal Protection Act, but the biggest problem is that when it comes to the real financing of this issue, everyone looks away discreetly, and let us be honest that this House has not taken this issue seriously enough. We need to divide this issue into two groups now, at the moment. There are so-called lawn-master settlements operating in settlements and settlements, which are basically all about what they say about the animals they have been introduced with municipal or state funding, destroying them with a noble simplicity. These institutions, if not much, will receive some money. There are civil animal protection organisations, I can say calmly, hundreds of them in the country, who operate these sites out of power from their own sources, at best by receiving 1 percent taxes, and they are doing practically everything they can to get these animals in there - and I would always like that, and I will stress that they are there because of man's irresponsibleness - and they will find the right solutions for them to get that animal to the farmer and to live under normal circumstances. These organisations, it can be said, do not receive state aid for one forint, and I believe that this is not only a common interest, it is in the interests of the whole country, but these organisations, I would like to stress, are performing a public task. 'Cause 24 hours a day, when they're told, they pick up stray animals. And I guess I don't have to set an example here when small children are attacked by animals roaming the streets, towns and villages and often cause life-threatening injuries. So I think that these organisations are performing a public task, and they certainly deserve to receive public funding. In addition, I would like to draw attention to one very important point: this problem - as many other problems in the country - if the root cause is not removed from root, it will be re-produced. And here, there would be only one solution to suppress this problem in the bud: a state-funded neutering action should be launched. To agree with the Veterinary Chamber, as appropriate, to agree with the veterinarians, because this will not work otherwise, because this means that money is thrown into the well, which these civil society organisations use to protect animals from their own resources. Of course, on this issue, I have made my amendments to the budget, and I hope that my fellow members of the Government will also support it. Another is very important, and here the issue of animal protection at some level is the issue of special rescue teams. They are practically in the same situation as civil animal welfare organisations, operating from their own resources, practically not very or almost never receiving state aid. They also try to operate their own system from 1 percent, try to develop and build their own infrastructure. I am well aware that this issue is not so important to anyone as long as he or one of his family members is not in a situation where urgent intervention by these organisations or groups is needed. And here, I would like to give you an example of an ordinary case. What happens, for example, when an old man who may not always know what is happening around him, suppose he wanders off in the woods, in the neighborhood, every day. You know, fellow Members, what happens at a time like this? The relatives notify the police, the police come out, they call the emergency services, the emergency services go out. And I would like to emphasise once again that I do not want to offend the disaster protection, because they are practically a very underfunded organization, in my opinion, and they have not been trained in such special situations, so I will continue: they will come out, examine the situation, and then notify the special rescue team in the area, who will do the actual reconnaissance, and in optimal cases - with very good statistics - they will find the lost people, children and elderly people alive. Now, I think that human life cannot be measured in forints, millions of forints, ten million forints, all human life is invaluable, and those organizations who have been doing this activity with their sacrifices and their own resources for 10 to 20 years really deserve proper funding. In terms of funding, I think that they can get the vehicles, the tools they need for their basic activities, and not possibly cause the problem if they have to leave, say, a hundred kilometers to a disaster situation, how they're going to fuel their vehicles, because unfortunately, this is where the situation is at the moment. Without the need for completeness, I now have nothing more to offer than the Spider Special Rescue Team, who, I can tell you, have brought world fame to Miskolc and Hungary, because in many parts of the world, they have performed outstandingly in disaster situations and are practically struggling with everyday livelihoods. Now it looks like this rescue team is putting giant posters on the job, carrying patients, and after that, when an alarm comes in, they get in the car after 10-12 hours a day, and they go to save lives. I suppose no one in this House thinks it's normal for such an organization to operate like this. Of course, I have also tabled the appropriate amendments to this, and I am very confident that honourable Members will support these amendments in terms of humanity and wisdom. Finally, I cannot leave the very sad and sad situation of North-East Hungary without a word, as I live there, and what seems cheerful in Budapest and Transdanubia is - believe me, my fellow Members - not so cheerful in North-East Hungary. In North-East Hungary, unfortunately, the idea of hopelessness, hopelessness and emigration surrounds people's everyday life, because in the last 25 years, this region has been in a situation where virtually no settlements can live anymore. And now, if I want to get into this issue, I would definitely call attention to my narrower environment, such as the Gömör area, the Ozd environment - believe me, fellow Members - we can talk about Miskolc, because it is not the solution to people's lives if, thanks to the lobbying of Minister Szijjártó, they bring a assembly message where people can work as happy slaves for 70-80-90 thousand forints. In Borsod County, this region has very good skills, very well-trained people, and they deserve to be given the opportunity not to leave their birthplaces, not to leave their surroundings, but to thrive there. [[12.30]] I think that practically one of the breaking points would be to pay more attention to tourism developments, because otherwise our environment is a beautiful, unique place, so that I don't mention anything else: Lillafüred or Aggtelek. I think we could build a future on this, but that would require government will. I have made my amendments to this, and I very much hope that the honourable members of the Government will also support them, so that the people of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County can see that they have not been given up. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-72	Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Heaven.
u2015-05-28-73	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to my colleague Zsolt Egyed's speech in two minutes and a few minutes. Everything you have said is beautiful and good, but no one thinks that the Hungarian government, the civil government, has abandoned Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, North-East Hungary or the people living there. It is a very serious and dynamic development that has taken place in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, in that region, even in the region of Gömör or Ozd for the past four or five years. But I could list the settlements of Tokaj-Hegyalja, Szerencs, the Borsodi axis, the regions of Miskolc, Sikszó, Tiszaújváros. More and more secure businesses are being set up, and we are not just talking about assembly workshops working for hunger. I would like to say that most of the funds from the regional operational programmes, HUF 93 billion, are allocated to Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. The city of Miskolc, of course, is not even included in this. Typically, according to their integrated plan, both the county and the municipalities will be able to develop economic infrastructure, which will make the life of the companies that are moving there even easier. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Member to an interesting research result: in the last seven years, in the last seven years, in the last seven years of the EU financial cycle, most applications for economic development have come from this region. This means that not only willing to live, but also ability to live and creativity are present in our county, which continues to be a reason for confidence. Of course, it is not all right, there is a lot of work, but we are on the right track, as unemployment has dropped from 17 percent in North-East Hungary in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county from 17 percent to 11 percent in the period between 2010 and 2014. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2015-05-28-74	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond to my fellow Member from Mengyi. Of course, I didn't say nothing happened. I wanted to explain in my comment that this is still not enough. Now let's take a simple example. Radiation settlement, where I live, has 700 inhabitants. Of these, 85 public workers, the remaining 10 people still working from the settlement, may claim to be lucky because they found themselves a job somewhere. In any case, I would like to emphasise, and I do not want to waste any more time, and I think that my fellow Member, Mengyi, agrees that our county is an area of uniqueness, that much more resources should be devoted to tourism here. Because if we could upgrade it to the European level, it could actually support most of the county. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-76	Now we're going back to normal comments. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-77	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of Interior has a significant role to play in 2016. One of the government's priorities is to further strengthen public security and public order. The budget submitted shall contain the main objectives which the Ministry of Interior has set itself for next year and shall also set out their budgetary basis. The areas of law enforcement in the Ministry of Interior are: police and public security, criminal enforcement, civil national security, disaster protection and asylum. Two of these areas, including prison and asylum, would be highlighted. The government programme includes strengthening public security, resulting in significant changes in criminal policy in recent years. As a result of the so-called three strikes law, the application of the medium measure and the public security package, the number of prison institutions has increased steadily and is expected to reach 18 500 by 2016. Penalty enforcement agencies shall implement the penalties and other measures provided for in the law involving deprivation of liberty and shall also provide for prisoners. By carrying out these tasks, the institutions contribute to strengthening public policy and public security, but, in addition to legal, professional and humane detention, the operation of the internal supply system is also a significant task. Reducing saturation is one of the most important tasks for the compliance of prison institutions with international requirements. The continued increase in the number of prisoners has a major impact on the security of the prisoners and of the detention staff. Tensions due to congestion can also directly affect events. In addition, the tasks of those performing security activities will be significantly increased. Further improvement of material conditions is essential in order to reduce the burden and ensure adequate working conditions. Continuing the extension of seats started in previous years is also a priority in 2016. The reduction of the over-saturation of the number of prisoners to 100 per cent will be feasible after the investments that are already under way and after the transfer of 8 new 500 institutions of 1 per 1000 in the coming years. The government has set itself the goal of bringing the institutions to European standards. This is also the direction of the 2016 budget with its investment volume of more than HUF 5 billion. It is important to note that the increase in the salary of law enforcement personnel also applies, of course, to the official staff of the prison execution, thus acknowledging their work. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, Hungary has faced significant migratory pressures. But it was not only our country, but also Europe. The purpose of the Immigration and Nationality Office is to carry out more effective foreign police and asylum tasks in 2016. The legal and effective management of the migratory pressure on our country, the elimination of security risks associated with illegal migration, in particular the threat of terrorism, requires the development of the system. The priority is to keep migration to Hungary in a regulated way, while reducing the abuse of asylum, while ensuring an adequate level of international protection for refugees. [[12.40]] The development of the system includes the necessary possible expansion of reception capacity and the improvement of the quality of refugee care. The Hungarian asylum system was designed in accordance with EU requirements, but it was based on data before 2013. The continuous increase in asylum seekers poses new challenges for the Immigration Office. Due to the increased number of tasks, it is also necessary to increase the number of staff of the Office, since 2157 asylum applications were received in 2012 and more than 37 thousand asylum applications were received by April this year. The budget shall include the resources necessary for the functioning of the system and for possible improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 draft budget shows that the Government is committed to further strengthening and developing the law enforcement areas of the Ministry of Interior. The introduction of a career system for law enforcement workers and the associated wage development, which opens up a new, long-term career for law enforcement personnel, is an outstanding achievement. In addition to the police, the wage increase extends to professional workers in disaster management and prison, civil secret services and the Parliamentary Guard, with a total of more than 60 thousand people's salaries rising from July, to which the budget has about HUF 120 billion covered. In conclusion, I would like to mention an actuality with respect. Unfortunately, in recent days, Eastern Hungary was hit by an iceberg, the agricultural crop of several settlements, i.e. 22 settlements, was wasted. That is why I urge the government to consider, more precisely, speed up the development of a national anti-icing system. The initial steps have already been taken: László Vincze, my former colleague, and István Jakab, Vice-President of Parliament, President of Magos, took steps. I therefore expect the Government, with great respect, that this year we will comply with the introduction of this anti-icing system, because the multibillion-dollar damage that has already been suffered by farmers in Eastern Hungary would be repaid by the introduction of the as soon as possible anti-icing system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-78	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-28-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, I would like to and will talk about the numbers in the area of justice, but a few thoughts should also be allowed in advance in relation to the previous speeches and speeches. I would like to stress that when we talk about public security, public order, especially the development of crime, my fellow Member Simon, we are making a huge mistake when we try to identify this with police issues or with problems in the enforcement of sentences. We know precisely that the evolution of crime is not primarily a police issue, but a social issue; and this is precisely the problem with this budget, one of the biggest problems is that, again, as with the budgets of the previous year, the point is that it favours those who are better off again to the detriment of the majority, to the detriment of those who have less earnings. As long as this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not differentiate between tax rates - for example, this is why we propose a single-digit rate for those who earn little - until we develop certain regions, we will not improve public security in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County or Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. As long as this social problem is not solved, as long as the government has this attitude towards both the poorer layers and the more backward regions, which is reflected in the current budget, there will be no progress here in terms of public security, and there will be no progress here or there. In the past period - and let me mention this - despite the fact that a package of laws was introduced in 2010, despite the fact that the criminal code has been amended in countless cases; despite the fact that prison population has actually been achieved even higher, prisons are even more overcrowded - not to the 100, but slowly to the 200 percent oversaturation - although the volume of crime has been virtually nothing less than the previous years. By the way, this criminal policy, like this fiscal policy, I think it has failed. The other thing I would like to mention about the previous speech is immigration. Of course, it is important to talk about this issue, and I know that it is one of the rubber bones of the government now, which is what the national consultation is about, which I think is a right to be outraged abroad and abroad, but I think that the biggest problem in Hungary today is not immigration, but emigration. The fact that the population of young people leaves the country is that today, in Western Hungary, as many people choose foreign higher education institutions as the Hungarian higher education institution, the fact that the very layer that could flourish Hungary in the coming decades does not imagine its future in Hungary. I think that this is a much bigger problem than talking so much about immigrants. From this budget, I can say it again, at least I don't see it as wanting and changing this trend. And now, in the area of justice, I would like to ask you one question in the first place, because I see that within the chapter of the Parliament an additional HUF 1 billion will be earmarked for the renovation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I ask: does this mean that you plan to renovate this from 2.5 billion forints? Because this feels a little excessive, but if it's any different, let one of the government's representatives do it so that he can give us some information in this regard. The second thing I particularly resent is that the budget of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is reduced by HUF 18 million. At the time when we heard the Ombudsman on the Judicial Committee, he told us what additional burden our legislative activities had imposed on the Office in recent years. He said that he wanted additional resources for this, and I think that he justified it properly, supported this, but that can be seen from his report. It is not acceptable for me to have the office's support reduced rather than to grow. In view of the fact that we are talking about a total budget of just over HUF 1 billion in total; therefore, in order to be able to allocate the necessary resources to these additional tasks, I think that we should be able to get into it, especially considering the useful activities that the Ombudsman has done, how serious work he has done. [[12.50]] It also proves that the ombudsman's report was accepted not only by the governing party but, if I remember correctly, then all opposition parties, so they didn't get a vote, perhaps Jobbik had a stay in one of the accounts for one year, because we discussed more in the last year. The other thing I would like to highlight with regard to the court chapter is that as a lawyer committed to the courts, former member of the OIT, I consider it a matter of my heart that the court budget should increase, increase and, of course, increase its support. We also suggested that the Fundamental Law or Constitution lay down that the judicial budget should not be less than the sum of the aid in the previous year. All in all, the justification is what is a bit problematic for me, because I think that the kind of legislative activity that leads to us now is that we will be forced to spend nearly HUF 3 billion more on the court budget, which, let me put it this way, refers a small matter to judicial jurisdiction. I think that the burden of judges should continue to be reduced in order to speed up the quality of judgment and cases, but this is not particularly worthwhile with budgetary support, but rather by not transferring matters which could otherwise be handled in a great administrative capacity to the courts. There were good efforts to do so, such as raising the default threshold to 50,000 forints. I think that this could be lifted to 200,000 forints under today's conditions. [[It's a noise from Jobbik's ranks.]] or even longer, and this should be dealt with in an administrative capacity, in particular by the fact that, today, infringement sanctions are becoming virtually similar to criminal sanctions that can be imposed by a court in certain areas. I see that my fellow good-looking Members do not agree with this. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] Obviously, they will explain their views on this matter. Yes, honourable Members, let me respond. I consider it a good genre to yell at, and I'm used to living with it myself, so I'm going to answer what you've just suggested. It is not necessarily necessary to use a full judicial criminal guarantee system in the event of a theft of HUF 200,000, when this can be solved easily, quickly and effectively in administrative power. I don't think, let's say, a two- or three-degree appeal is necessary in order to arrange a 200,000-forint theft. That is what I am referring to, and that is why I say that we should not reduce the level of the guarantee system, but take these matters out of this process and transfer them to administrative jurisdiction. Faster, cheaper and more efficient administration. Otherwise, the culprit will be punished more quickly than in today's system, let me add this. Somewhere else, of course, where there is greater value, there is a need to maintain the guarantee system, but this goes beyond a budgetary debate. What I would also like to point out is that if we talk about the length of the lawsuits and consider the length of the lawsuits as a problem, then why is it that it never receives, for years now, significantly more support from the Institute of Justice Experts and Research, because everyone knows that all the surveys and statistics show that the work of experts is hindering it in the first place, or perhaps this is one of the main reasons why the procedures are going on. Everyone knows that if you got a little bit more money here, not a little bit more money, a lot more money for the research institute, then the procedures could be considerably shortened. In very short, I would like to mention 500 million forints intended to support programmes aimed at raising the level of legal education. Here I would very much like to know what this means in detail, because this cannot be read out of the explanatory statement. I see and I know that since they reduced the number of places supported to 100-150 in law school, at national level, I would like to stress that not one university, since then this is the main problem of legal universities. If this 500 million HUF helps to increase this, for example, I can support this, and I just want to know how you intend to use it in the budget, there is no statement of this. Finally, with regard to the chapter-based appropriations of the Ministry of Justice, one hand is not enough to show how many times I have said it, and I do not understand why this cannot be changed, that the envelope for compensation, legal assistance and compensation for victims is set at the same level each year, and every year it is two to three times the amount of appropriations, which is reality. Why can't you lift this, why can't these numbers reflect reality? All the more so, because I think that the system of legal assistance - but it is going beyond the budgetary debate once again - should be changed significantly and the secondment system should not be practically abolished, but should be transferred from the powers of the courts and authorities to the legal assistance service. Defensive work would be much more objective if it were in these frameworks. In fact, as a last subject, all the way from the judicial area now, I share to a large extent the thoughts that my colleague Zsolt Egyed said about animal protection. I also believe that this is an area where, thank God, animal protection and animal perception have changed a lot in recent years. This is shown by the amendments to the Btk., as shown by the amendments to the Animal Protection Act. This is indeed a matter that is not a political issue. It is indeed a matter that deserves more attention and more financial expense. I can therefore support these amendments, for example, with a very good heart, as any legislative amendments that have a positive impact on animal life, nature conservation and the world of animals in general. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-28-80	State Secretary Károly Kontra asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to what Congressman Bárándy has said insofar as I give good news to the Member. He said at the beginning of his comment, when he dealt with law enforcement issues, that strict law enforcement policy did not bring any results [[Adam Mirkóczki: No.]] Or he said that only police issues are not enough to solve crime. I started by giving good news to Congressman Bárándy. When the second government of Viktor Orbán took office on 29 May 2010, we made it clear that order and public security are a priority national issue and that we will strengthen the police to that end. I've told you several times, we've confirmed the police with 3,500. We have made strict laws in Parliament, we have also created laws to speed up judicial case-law, and in 2012 judicial reform came into force. Thanks to these measures, between December 2010 and December 2014, the number of known crimes decreased by 70,000, and we can say that today in Hungary people live more safely than before 2010. So I think that this is a significant step forward, and it is important that this is clearly seen here in Parliament, too, by all Members. I am saying this because I took the contribution of Congressman Bárándy as benevolent, and I gave this information only to make him aware of that. On the other hand, a very important step will take place from 1 July this year. As a result of the new Service Act adopted on 14 April, the new salary scheme will enter into force as of 1 July 2015, resulting in an average increase of 30 per cent from 1 July 2015 for professional law enforcement professionals. This is covered by HUF 44 billion in the 2015 budget. From 1 January 2016 until 1 January 2019, a further 5-5 per cent per year, with an average salary increase of 50 per cent, will be granted to professional law enforcement personnel. The 2016 source is also included in the 2016 budget for HUF 121 billion. [[13.00]] I am also reflecting on what other opposition representatives have said. So I can tell you that's the case at the moment. We are not satisfied, by the way, and we would like further steps to be taken, and the 2016 budget is covering this, so to move forward in the area of public security and further strengthening of public order, these conditions, as Mr Simon Miklós said, are included. But once again, we have a philosophy in law enforcement that tomorrow we have to do much more for order and security than we did yesterday or the day before. We are prepared to do this, we are determined to do so, and this includes the conditions for this in relation to the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-82	I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, representative of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The speakers before me dealt with part of the budget, allow me to return a little bit to the budget philosophy and take the 2016 budget under consideration accordingly. The aim of each budget is to give an answer on how people will live next year. This, in short, may sound like this about the task of a budget. On 13 May 2015, the government presented the 2016 budget to Parliament, the most important message of which to people is the tax reduction - tax reduction with responsibility. Although interest rates are low, economic growth is significant, inflation is also low, but we must not start to spend irresponsiblely, as we have seen many times during socialist governments. We all remember the baseless spending, the two hundred-day programmes, or the 2006 year when VAT was reduced to nearly 10 percent. Of course, when they saw the budgetary impact of the measure, they quickly withdrew it. Fortunately, we are no longer discussing with regard to the budget who and how much their payments are increasing, but who and how much they are decreasing. Hungary remains a fan of disciplined budgetary management. It is therefore reassuring that the government intends to gradually reduce the level of personal income tax in several steps, so that it does not jeopardise the budget and that we can maintain the budget deficit target of 2%. The same responsible attitude is seen with regard to VAT, as the government, following the principle of gradualness, first only reduces the overall sales tax on pig meat to 5% in order to ensure that the balance of the budget is not disrupted. We hope that the impact of the measure will be positive, whiten the economy, and that the possibility of reducing VAT will also be considered for other product groups. In my view, a civilian government is not handing out loans, indebting the future generation, but taking responsibility for taxpayers' money. It was not sustainable that the most capitalised companies did not take part in the common burden while producing and taking home extra profit. In this way, the health contribution of tobacco companies will become a permanent public burden, providing a long-term source of funding for the Health Insurance Fund for domestic healthcare. Philosophy here, as in the public health product tax, is that the tax increase is not absorbed by the state, but turned back to where it is most needed, in the health sector. Another health-related proposal by the government is to exempt GPs from local business tax, which will greatly help to keep workers in the sector. The government also fulfills another promise to reduce the rate of bank tax as far as the budget is concerned. This is particularly good news for the banking sector and probably also for the economy. The drastic reduction of the bank tax can improve lending and thus accelerate economic growth, as the tax rate will decrease from 0.53% of the balance sheet total to 0.31% from 1 January 2016. With this measure, the tax burden of banks will be reduced by approximately HUF 60 billion, and hopefully their lending activity will increase at the same time, helping the Hungarian economy to develop. It is also positive that the government is also responsible for this tax, since it does not eliminate it overnight, but only gradually, so it does not represent such a burden to the budget. We can now say that the introduction of so-called crisis taxes, the crisis crisis management in 2010-11, has been successful, as the Hungarian economic model has proven its viability, all macroeconomic indicators have improved recently and growth has also started. The other area where the government promises to ease is the reduction of administrative burdens. The State Reform II. The possibility of abolishing or reducing charges, charges and charges will be examined under the programme. With this package of measures, nearly HUF 10 billion can remain in people's hands. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This is how the 2016 budget also serves the interests of citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-84	I now give the floor to Adam Mirkóczki, the representative of Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to comment essentially on law enforcement issues. I will try not to repeat what has already been said, whether from opposition or from pro-government benches, so I would not list the figures and the various budget lines. However, I would like to make it clear, first of all, to the pro-government representatives that the big-great success propaganda that we have been in order since 2010, we are committed, we have done everything, we have done this either to finish it, or then the negatives in the other pan of the balance sheet, which is reality and reality, let us add. In the case of the police, it has been said earlier in opposition that there is the expenditure in rem that can now be debated, that one line is growing and the other is falling, one fact: everyday problem, and ask district agents, actual patrol officers, the basic problem is that the fuel quota runs out in the second to third week of that month. No, the district commissioners fill up their own pockets in a small settlement. That's the thing. And your government couldn't do that in five years. It can be denied that there is; the reality is that there is no. I'm not saying it. I'm asking the police if that's true. 'Cause you don't want to believe that a policeman on his salary is fueling himself, and the police in small towns are doing it, because everyone knows everyone, and let's just say the villagers trust him. You're not gonna do what you're gonna do by telling a citizen who's turned to him that I'm sorry, I can't refuel from the frame, so I'm not going. The cop doesn't say that, he's gonna put his pockets in his pockets, and he's gonna go, and he's got all the respect. But again, let's face these basic problems. And most importantly, you can say... - I'm sorry that Secretary Kontra is not listening. [[Dr. Károly Kontra is calling at the entrance to the Chamber.]] Anyway, I'm sure he'll get to her. You could say there's a policeman in every settlement. You can say that we've initiated 3,500 cops since 2010, that's true, no one's arguing that, and I'm saying that's still not enough. Because what's the basic problem? The basic problem is that a district commissioner doesn't have one settlement, which would be the normal case, but three to four, often five. During a service period, you have so much to do, and it takes so much energy and time to show up in every settlement, if you can, that you run around the settlements quickly, go into the mayor's office, maybe talk to the vigilantes, see if everything's okay. No, okay, I gotta keep going, I can't do anything. That's the thing. And in order not to be disbelief, I recently asked Sándor Pintér a written question, and the following answer was given, and this should be the basis for whether it is sufficient or good. [[13.10]] I've been asking about the number of precincts, police stations, district agents. Today there are 154 police stations in Hungary, roughly 3,200 settlements, 21 border police offices and 258 police stations. It can be seen that there is no police station, police station, or district agency centre in an amazing proportion of the settlements of Hungary. The number of district agents is 3546. You can imagine how the 3200 settlements are divided during the 0-24 service of 3546 people. You don't. The vast majority of settlements actually remain without police. That's the biggest problem. Because you can say it's on paper, in practice, it's not. But let's keep going. You think everything is okay, and the budget also shows that the budget does not really change for the previous years - by which I mean the many percent change here, either in a positive or negative direction. With one word, they say that the framework is guaranteed to address all the challenges facing us and facing the authorities, and on the other hand, they say that terrorism is a big problem, what a big problem illegal migration is. Then I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we do not say by accident that it is essential to restore an independent border guard. It can be said that border police within police ties are doing their job, and the reality here is that, for example, at the Serbian border, in the area of Asotthalom, László Toroczkai and his field guards should not collect illegal migrants, but normally border guards. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, among the 27 Member States of the European Union - of those Member States with a Schengen border section, even one metre - it is a Member State where there is no independent border guard. Hungary alone. Hungary alone does not have an independent border guard. I think that it cannot be said that those members of the EU Member States who have border guards are stupid or stupid, because for what, because here is the Hungarian example. The Hungarian example shows precisely that it is not good with regard to illegal migration. And here he is for the example of a terrorist threat. We also think that this is a very real and growing challenge. We see how brutal things happen in Western Europe. What we see is that national security risks and other security policy challenges arising from illegal migration are increasing, but we see in the budget that these increasing challenges or, let's say, no perceived threats are present; neither is the Constitutional Protection Office - here, in the case of several ministries - neither the Information Office, nor the Military National Security Service, nor the Counter-Terrorism Centre. There is no increase in the budget line to justify what you often refer to as an increase in our threat. And it has actually grown, with only one decision: only the Hungarian military engagement against the Islamic State has increased the threat of terrorism in Hungary to an unprecedented extent. This should remain a threat, and I wish that there should not be a problem, but let us admit that we do not have a border guard, that the number of illegal migrants is growing primarily from the south to an astonishing and astonishing rate, that Hungarian secret services do not have the capacity to control the tens of thousands of illegal migrants or other immigrants at a level such as to determine whether they have a relationship with a jihadist group, whether they belong to salafite or Vahabite extremist sects or related circles and so on. There's a job to be done here. And let's just say that the case of a certain pipe bomb also showed, and it is completely irrelevant from the point of view of the story that, I don't know, it is related to the terrorist organisation or other terrorist organization called the Islamic State, only one case showed how vulnerable Hungary is to terrorism. There's no doubt about it. It's only because of the fatal coincidence that it didn't turn into a tragedy. And I also say that there is no 100% security, but when the head of the Counter-Terrorism Center, the Director-General of all Secret Service says that the entry into the battle against the Islamic State - and very politely and very subtlely translated, but translate it into Hungarian - has increased the terror threat in Hungary to an astonishing extent and is constantly increasing, as a few kilometers south of us in Bosnia there are plenty of training camps and cells of the Islamic State, a significant part of whose members travel through us to Northern Iraq or Syria to fight with the Islamic State. If they decide to punish Hungary for its military involvement, then they can do it with a little exaggeration, and let us say it openly, without any problems. That is the problem, and that should be addressed. Let me add, the most effective way to deal with this is to prevent it. The answer to an American e-mail was not to send 150 soldiers to Northern Iraq for HUF 20 billion a year. And then we didn't talk about the other one. We have a war conflict next door, free troops in the Ukraine area, criminal law enforcement, killers based on Ukrainian chauvinist politics and ideology, actually extremist, Nazi ideals, armed with hundreds of people, and do whatever they want. If Ukraine, as the case may be, falls apart and starts a flood of refugees, will we be able to filter them, like the Szics, Azov, Better Sector, in any case. And what can they do in Hungary? This is what I am talking about when I say that the increase in the budget that can address Hungary's security policy challenges for the future is not necessarily reflected in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-86	State Secretary Károly Kontra asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to what Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki said for some thought. As regards the number and strengthening of the police force, you know, Mr President, it is strange that you are asking us, on the one hand, why there are no better results, and, on the other hand, you have not voted in a series of laws that served these purposes. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: We did not vote for the Salad Law!]] But they didn't vote for it. As a fact, they didn't vote for it. [[István Apáti: Expired album!]] It's untrue that you're crying out for order. [[Adam Mirkóczki: The government is uncredited!]] and they do not give the police the opportunity, they do not give the police the weapons to symbolically say what they need to do even more effectively. [[Adam Mirkóczki: What are we not giving? You've got two thirds! What was I supposed to do? Four-five?]] This is not credible, Congressman, because I have warned you several times over the past four years, I have called your attention and asked you in a nice word to support the laws that have ratified the order that we have tabled, but you have not done so. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr President, please allow me to make my contribution. [[István Apáti: Intervention is a parliamentary genre!]] But democracy is also a parliamentary genre [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you should know.]] Congressman, and your other hearing includes... [[György Szilágyi: The truth is also a parliamentary genre!]] So I'll continue if you'll allow me, Congressman István Apáti, when you've finished yelling at me. So I stopped saying that, yes, in response to Mr Barándy, I said that we are not entirely satisfied, and we can see that there is still a lot to do, so we thought that public security is an issue in which a national public agreement can be established, because it is in our interest to have order and security in all the settlements of the country. This is what voters expect from us in all areas of the country, from Eastern Hungary to Western Hungary, to Budapest. And we're doing what we're doing. As far as the number of district agents is concerned, or he said that there are not enough district agents: if we compare them to the 2010 figures, we can say that there is almost 100% upload of district agents, which is a significant step forward, on the one hand. On the other hand, what I would like to say is that, as a result, and thanks to the help of the Alert Police, we can say today that all Hungarian settlements have police access. I did not say that there is a policeman there all day, but there is a policeman in every Hungarian settlement, and our goal is to improve this situation further, and to bring together the local governments, civil society organisations, the vigilantes... - and here let me raise the vigilantes and thank the vigilantes, the tens of thousands of people who volunteered to serve their free time in order to prevent crime. So I'm going to thank them this way. [[13.20]] So with this cooperation, with the police, the militia, the municipalities, the NGOs, the churches, the people, we can all achieve greater success. And there's always more to be done, because criminals are also stepping up their efforts to find the gaps, but we always have to do more. By the way, I have also told Mr Barándy that we want to do more, and we want to achieve even more security in the country. Therefore, we are seeking full uploading of the number of district agents and permanent cooperation with the municipalities. Small regional district forums are held by police headquarters, where all mayors are heard about where more effort should be made, where greater police presence is needed. So there we are, in the field, working with everyone who cares about order and public safety. Let me say that the 2016 budget has five headline targets for the BM chapter. One is the strengthening of public security and the other is the protection against terrorism, the prevention of acts of terrorism. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: The independent border guard must be restored.]] I'll get to that, too. And once again, there are results, numbers are improving, but even more needs to be done for the police, for us legislators, to create conditions that allow their productive work. As regards the restoration of the independent border guard: this has been found several times in Parliament on immediate issues, before the agenda and in other genres of Parliament. We have always said that on 21 December 2007 Hungary joined the Schengen area, the Schengen system. On 1 January 2008, a merger between the police and the border guards took place, and the border police became part of the police activity. In the letter you answered your written question, Minister, you clearly touched on how many border police offices there are and what department border guards work in. Mr President, it is important that Frontex, the European Union's Border Police Agency, also appreciates the results of the Hungarian border police officers in its annual reports. We work with the EU Border Police Agency, Frontex and other Union organisations. We are applying for EU funds, we are using the External Borders Fund and other funds to make border surveillance more effective. I can say in this area, too, what we want to say in other areas of public security, that we are not entirely satisfied, that we also want greater security. We therefore want immigration to be a national competence, and we can decide who we let in, under what conditions, and how these issues should develop. On the other hand, we are constantly monitoring the situation at our external Schengen borders. Last year - but I have also informed the House and you about this, Member, if I remember correctly - we have significantly strengthened the Csongrád county section. The Csongrád county section of the Hungarian-Serbian border has been confirmed by more than 600 people in recent years. And I would like to say that if further reinforcements are needed, we will also do so. But the point is not - I have repeatedly said this - that we call the border guard or the border police directorates or offices of the police, but that they do their job in a good quality for the safety of all of us. I ask your support for this, honourable Member. As regards the threat of terrorism and the question of how well the TEK, the Counter-Terrorism Centre's budget is secured, and how much the budget of the secret services is assured: I would like to reassure you that the budget currently presented, as I have already said, is an important element of the protection against terrorism, the prevention of terrorist acts, and the coordinated action in this regard. I hope that the conditions will be provided after the adoption of this budget. As far as the situation in Ukraine is concerned, I would like to reassure you that there is sufficient preparation in this regard and that you, as a member of the National Security Committee, have been informed of this. I think Hungary is ready. Mr President, on your point of view: once again, I would like to ask you, if it is really important for you to strengthen public security and public order, to reduce or exclude terrorist threats, then the first step is to change your policies and support this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Adam Mirkóczki: We do not support salad laws!]] It's not a salad law!
u2015-05-28-88	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. In this context, I give the floor first to Member István Apáti.
u2015-05-28-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to respond to Miklós Simon's earlier speech on the matter of the real billions of ice damage to the Satmar region. I am pleased and agree with Mr President that it is urgently necessary to install an anti-icing system, although I do not see the amount of funds needed for this in the budget. I'm sure we'll support him if he shows up like this. Congressman shows that there is 5 billion forints here. Well, I would like to inform you that a decent ice cannon with a smaller capacity starts at EUR 40,000, and a substantial amount of it should be installed. If this source is available, I'm glad, but the 5 billion will certainly be scarce. But what of it, honourable government representatives, with the current ice damage? What about compensation, compensation? Hundreds of small and medium-sized farmers were in a desperate situation in the Csenger area, and many settlements north of Csenger were in a hopeless situation. 500,000 river meters of back-system cucumber have also been destroyed, and this is only the first phase of the damage assessment. The damage is estimated to be between 5 and 10 billion. And the fruit crops were destroyed in such a way that the fruit farmers could expect sales in 2017 at the earliest, since the twigs and leaves were completely destroyed by the walnut and cherry-sized ice, so they will not be able to obtain income even in the next year, which is why the principle of the Compensation Fund for HUF 1 will not be enough to do so. This region should be declared a disaster zone by the Hungarian government and help farmers who have been in a hopeless situation without their own fault. That is your moral duty, honourable Member. When there was a spring frost damage in the area in 2007, you and Magos, at the front, had every right to demand the compensation of farmers, with the prospect of breaking down Parliament's gate. Well, then, this freedom fighter and the attitude of standing up for the farmers should also dominate you when you are on the government, and Magos should not function as a household organization of the government with the Agricamara, but should finally put yourself there and help the farmers of Satmar. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-90	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would briefly respond to the speeches made by Secretary-General Kontra. Mr. Secretary, the decline you're setting in crime, I'll tell you very simply what it comes from. Not from your good criminal policy, but from what, by the way, you have done very rightly, that the infringement threshold has been raised from 20 to 50 thousand forints, so the crimes against 30-40 thousand forints are not a crime, but an offence. Thus, the number of violations increased and the number of offences decreased. A significant part of this comes from this. You know, Secretary of State, however, there is a good trend, in the sense that it was right to raise the threshold, but to sell it as a government result that crime would have decreased is a hypocritical thing. The other is that you are talking about strict criminal policy, sometimes even asking for our consent, and what is more, sometimes we even give it. I didn't have a speech that it was okay for the ruling party to think that it would improve the rate of crime, but it would improve public security, but it should be; as a criminal lawyer, I do not agree with it, but we support it. We can't see the results. What we see, however, and our feedback is that the judges in the courts - now hold on - apply the new Btk. in the first place. And you know what that means, Mr. Secretary? It means the new Btk. is more favourable to the perpetrator than the old one, since the criminal law only has a retroactive effect if the new one allows for more favourable treatment than the old one. And if the judges are using the new Btk., it means that it's a lighter judgment for them. [[13.30]] This is when people change Btk without reason and according to popular needs, but do not think about it systematically. That's the result, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Haughty applauds.]]
u2015-05-28-92	I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-93	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr Abbot said a few thoughts about the ice damage. By looking at the budget, I highly recommend to you the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is available for compensation of nearly HUF 8 billion. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They don't have access to it, that's the problem!]] So I ask the farmers here with great respect to submit their demands as soon as possible, and we will do everything in our power to give new opportunities to the plantations that have actually been destroyed. Yesterday, I was negotiating with the owners of one of the canned plants, the Máriapocsi, who also envisaged the creation of a new plantation under an integration agreement. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You just need it fast, because you should be taking it soon!]] The opportunity was therefore given for the work to continue. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-05-28-94	State Secretary Károly Kontra asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond very briefly to what Mr Gergely Bárándy said. Congressman, the number of crimes in Hungary has decreased not primarily because of the change you mentioned. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Due to the increase of the default threshold!]] No, no! It was also the result of the crime prevention activity I was talking about. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Attorney General's report says otherwise.]] [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Attorney General's report says otherwise.]] About the collaboration that resulted from this crime prevention operation... what? (Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The Attorney General's report says otherwise!) That's right, I could quote the numbers, but I don't want to fight a number war with you right now. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Please!]] I would just like to say that the questioning of a reduction in the number of crimes or its downfall may not strengthen order, public security. I also think it is important that the staff of the police, the authorities and the police in this area, are encouraged to speak with appreciation here in Parliament about the activity that they are doing for the safety of all of us in all Hungarian settlements. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-28-96	Now we are going back to the regular speeches. In this context, I give the floor first to Congressman Márius Révész, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I have been a Member since 1998, and if we calculate this, this is the 17th budget debate that I am participating in. I must say that none of the 17 budget debates were like this. In the last 17 years, we have not had a budget such as 2016 before us. Let's think about the two percent deficit in the next year's budget - when was that possible? - with 1.7 per cent inflation, 2.5 per cent economic growth, otherwise the real wage increase is also calculated at 2.5 per cent. This budget includes a tax reduction of HUF 170 billion, and in addition, this budget will continue - that is the case - career plans, so there will be wage increases. Obviously, this is reflected in the 2.5 percent real wage increase. I think that if we put these facts side by side, it is clear and clear that Parliament has never once been in a position to adopt a budget for the next year that we are going to do. There are big debates in Parliament, no doubt about that. We've been arguing for two days. The fact is, my fellow Members, that no one is actually questioning these facts. No one is questioning the fact that there will be economic growth, no one is questioning practically that the budget deficit will be record low and that I can continue. It is increasingly difficult to doubt that the Hungarian economy has been consolidated in recent years. How unclear this was, let me tell you that there is a Institute of Fiscal Responsibility near Bajnai Gordon, which, let me tell you, predicted in the middle of last year that by 2015 economic growth in Hungary will fall below 1 percent. It will fall below one percent, and this year there will be serious cuts this spring. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why, didn't he?]] The same was said by András Vértes, who was close to the socialists, from the Institute for Economic Research, that there will be great austerity this spring. We see that instead, we are not restricting ourselves, but launching career plans. [[Zoltán Haughty: No money!]] And now there's not much of an economic analyst who would say that this year there would be at least 2.8 percent economic growth. Although I have to say that most analysts are already putting the scale of economic growth above 3 per cent. Yesterday, there was a socialist MEP who called last year's growth a one-off leap. I would like to draw his attention to what I just said, that this year, too, there will probably be a higher economic growth of around 3%. Clearly, it is no coincidence that Hungary's qualification is on the agenda. We hope this will happen this year. There was also a fellow Member who said in yesterday's debate that these results were beautiful, beautiful on paper, but that they were useless if people didn't feel anything. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] This is all true, but if we look at the data, we see that between 5 and 8 percent of retail sales in January, February, March. However, a 5-8 percent increase in retail sales is already noticeable, as this money is spent by people. Let me highlight only one data showing the brutal changes that are taking place in Hungary. In the first four months, the sales of used apartments increased by more than one and a half times compared to the first four months of last year. One and a half times. I think that we would probably never find such a thing in Hungary's history. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Broker scandal!]] that from one year to the next, one and a half times as many apartments were sold as in the previous year. There were also speakers who said that Hungarian society is constantly poor, and that there may be these problems, but the Hungarian society is split in two. Seven days ago, the OECD survey was published or published, and I recommend it to everyone. This includes that the income difference between the poorest tenth and the richest tenth - ten percent - is 7.2 times higher in Hungary. Let me just say that the OECD average is 9.6 times, and with this 7.2 we are, by the way, below the European Union average. So I say only to everyone that it is possible to argue with many things in Parliament's debate, but I think it is good to know that we are also in the social field that society in Hungary is not divided on the basis of this data, as in the OECD countries, or even in the European Union. Some people have said that family support expenditure and social expenditure have decreased very significantly in Hungary over the past few years. I have to say that these institutions, obviously again we are talking about institutions close to the left, have not opened up all the parts of the truth exactly. It is indeed true that social expenditure has fallen. For example, we are giving less unemployment benefits or income support, but the fact is, fellow Members, that we are not giving this, but we are giving community service instead, and these people will otherwise receive significantly more public work. Not twenty-one thousand forints, but sixty-one thousand forints. Indeed, this does not appear in social support, but we are very helpful to these people, and they are much better off with public work than if they were receiving income support. The same is true, honourable Members, in the area of family support. It can be said that if we add the family allowance, the child, and I don't know what fixed amounts are, then we see in the budget that, yeah, there's a smaller amount on these lines. [[13.40]] However, if we look at how much the budget has provided for family support and family benefits since 2010, we find that there is an incredible increase. It is unbelievable, because just think that when we introduced the tax allowance for children, in 2011 it left 185 billion HUF for the families. That suggestion was more or less true for two years, and I accepted that argument when it was said that the poorest were not able to make sufficient use of it. But this problem was also solved from 2014 when we said that we could extend it to health and pension contributions. This has already increased this extra support to HUF 240 billion. The fact is that this has helped the poorest, too, a great deal. The 2016 budget shows that we will be able to continue or continue on this path, as we will also start the increase in tax relief for the two children. This is a four-year program, we provide a larger amount of HUF 2500 per child per year. The budgetary implications of this are approximately HUF 20-21 billion. We leave more money than families with two children. So if you count the discounts and add them to the subsidies, it is not true that there is a lower level of family support, the rate of family benefits in Hungary than in the past period, but much more. However, there is a fundamental philosophical difference: we do not want to make this subjective, but we try to make all such support and all such benefits to work. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important question, and this is not a coincidence. Yesterday in the debate, it was mentioned that there were 1 million fewer people working than at the time of the change of regime, and the truth is that this situation is indeed true, and this is a very serious challenge, but this is not a pre-ordained state, because if you look at countries with a similar number of people, such as, say, the Czech Republic or Portugal, you have a similar number of people working there with a similar number of people. Probably, if we face the facts honestly, then the social system that has developed, to say the least, has made people a little bit disinterested in taking a job in Hungary. We would like to change this very drastically, and here too, it seems that the first results have already been achieved. Employment has increased in Hungary, and I would like to highlight it specifically, which is a very positive turn of events that women's employment is at its peak in Hungary. This is very, very important, and if these data are further broken down, we can see that the employment of mothers with small children has increased particularly greatly. Obviously, this cannot be excluded from the decisions taken by the government or by Parliament in recent times. This is the job protection action, after which mothers with small children can return to work from their children or from children with reduced contributions. For example, the ged extra, the change of which is moving in a positive direction again in the following year, since it can be used from the age of six months. We find that the countries where mother's childbearing and work are compatible are also more successful in terms of childbearing. I think we have made a lot of progress in this area, too. I was pleased to hear the announcement made yesterday by the Secretary of State or two days ago when she said that the preparations for the daycare center at work were being started, because it is important to see that we have created the incentive that the mother can go back to work sooner, if she does not know where to put the children and children in the workplace, she will not be able to go back. So I feel it is very important that in the years to come, the kindergarten building, family day-to-day and now work-to-day construction programme that we have started in the last few years. The biggest challenge of Hungary is, by the way, the demographic problem, and these demographic problems have now been, in order to say that we have tried to make a lot of progress and help. However, there is a very important problem that if young people are unable to live, they are unfortunately unable to have children. It is a pleasure that in a month's time the family home-building discount will start, and it is a pleasure that the budget coverage for this can be found entirely in the next year's budget. This means that we will be able to help 12,000 young couples and families to get housing each year. Ladies and gentlemen, I started by saying that in recent years, there has been no such budget in front of the Hungarian Parliament since 1990. The fact is that the budget has been consolidated over the past period. We are now going forward - tax cuts - in the area of income, we are going forward in the area of economic growth. Let me tell you my only feeling of absence. I think that, in the case of workers in the social sector, I very much hope that there will be so much economic growth this year and at the beginning of the next year that we will be able to launch a career programme in the social sector, and in that case we can say that we have made an incredible leap forward in 2016. We hope, as this is a sustainable growth, that we can continue on this path in 2017-18 and the following years. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-28-98	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-28-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I thought I had a two-minute window ahead of me. I'd like to start by reacting first. I wish we could share the optimism of Márius Révész. At a time when my fellow Member tells me how much growth will be, how much inflation will be this year, and how much the lack of public debt will be compared to that, I think that almost everyone, besides you, has said much less about this issue because you do not know it. In each document, in the justification of the budget and in each speech to date, it is expected. What you say today is likely to be true. However, you - and I will explain later that we also have a view on why we are discussing the budget in May - have started to plan a budget based on a quarter-year facts when the largest tax revenue, let's say, has not yet worked. It is expected that growth will be 2.5 percent - and then, if that is not the case, what will happen, my fellow Member? It is expected that inflation will be 1.2 percent. I will tell you factors that will be able to modify them quite accurately, and you, as you have proved in recent times, have not foreseen for three weeks. We are now amending the 2015 budget, which we voted on yesterday, which we had to discuss in committee in two rounds, because it came in once, and then came back again, because something had to be changed. So, within a week or two, we modified it two times, and the Budget Committee discussed this year's budget two times. It also has a beauty to discuss and vote on the amendment of the 2015 budget in the same week, when we are talking about 2016 and we are trying to make people believe that we know exactly what it is and how many, how many tenths will be in the next period. My fellow Member is right in that there are brutal changes in Hungary. There are brutal changes, and you may just see that the used apartments and their sales are 1.5 times as much in Hungary, as you said, the fence is made of sausage; just don't look at what's in that sausage. I come from a forgotten region of Hungary, from the region of the South-Transdanubian region, in particular from Baranya. There are not only five or six viable cities in this country, my fellow Member, but also other areas in this country. I'm from Komlo, where there's a ten-story place where they live in two of the 30 apartments. Now, the used housing market is certainly not soaring, and there, in that town and in the surrounding settlements, a used apartment could be sold for as much as a used car could be sold! [[13.50]] This is only important because it was the only small wealth of families to which you simply turned the key because of your distorted social policy, fiscal policy and support policy. [[Márius Révész: Who made the foreign currency loan?]] What fit in the back of the car was loaded, and they went to the other side of the country or to the other side of Europe to earn their livelihood. Of course, this is another problem in Sopron, where 20,000 Hungarians who want to settle there and want to work there in the hope of a better life appeared in a city of 60,000. [[Dr. Agnes Molnár: 6,000!]] I think it would be your job to work out programmes and develop policies for the whole country that are not just about saying excellent PR sentences and looking good in the press anyway. If I want to continue this line, my fellow Member Vantara has said some interesting things, and I would also like to respond to that. To this budget, my fellow Member Vantara said, his philosophy is how Hungarian people will live. That's what we're afraid of. We are afraid, too, because we will see, and if some of the sub-schemes have been opened here, my fellow Members, I will also touch one or two, because of what is our life, what is the foundation of the Hungarian state organisation, the system of state and the social and health security around us, if we will live according to it next year, then I think we will face a very big problem. No irresponsible spending, like the two hundred-day program. In the two hundred days program, there was a 50 percent wage increase. That's what we're saying right now, so there's a 50-percent raise. In contrast to what you're saying, [[Peter Cseresnyés: From What? What did they do that for, tell me.]] In contrast to what you say, there will be a wage increase in health care, said Minister Mihály Varga. 15 billion forints - right? - 15 billion forints are earmarked for this. The HUF 15 billion is that if I divide this by 85 thousand people who work in health care, that's not exactly 3 percent. That's why I still think you shouldn't be proud. [[Noise.]] The social sector has not yet been able to include 15 billion in last year's budget yet again, but now that there was a 144 billion-dollar reorganization that we discussed on Tuesday and we voted on Wednesday, we have failed to include the wage increase in the social sphere, and you have promised the police the wage closure and the programme, and obviously you are spending the 60 billion-dollar reserve of the Prime Minister's Office for the sixth time in its entirety. Let us hope that they will cope with this, and the law enforcement authorities will receive the benefits they are entitled to. But yet I say that this, instead of 50 percent, is not a reason for pride, my fellow Members, but a reason for blush, I am quite sure. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] If we are talking about philosophy, I think that a budget should not be a philosophy, but a budget should be a very concentrated economic policy: what we want to achieve from the situation where we start. Here, I will return to the question that we do not know what the situation is where we start, because we know what you are expected to say on the basis of today's figures. There are no facts, there are no facts even from last year, and there are very, very little data coming in from this year, too. But I'll tell you what you're so proud of. The countries of the region are so far behind us that we will never catch up with them. You are very proud of the 0.8 percent increase in GDP compared to the first quarter of last year. If we miss the fact that it is 0.8 percent in Slovakia, 1 percent in Poland, 1.6 percent in Romania and 2.8 percent in the Czech Republic, then I think that again would be a sure reason not for pride, but for blushing. It's a budget for latency and hit-and-run. What you have calculated is that from which you have just worked, I will now list a few things, if you succeed in any other way, and we can see that there is a rather moving economic and political world around us, if something is not happening to Greece as you have just come up with, that every week you will announce, in general, that you have a bankruptcy, that you do not have a bankruptcy, that they are not financed or financed; if Germany has a weakening growth, and that is what we see, and I hope that we can conclude that, even here in this House, there is no debate here that there is a direct parallel between the growth or decline of the German economy and the Hungarian economy. EU transfers will be reduced, and Mihály Varga also acknowledged this in television when he said that, in the next year's budget, we can expect at least one thousand billion less, but 800 billion less EU transfers. Please, if the improvements that give 97 percent of the Hungarian development are reduced, I think that our optimism cannot be so high, and accordingly, if even the oil price were to move as you do not expect, then inflation could change, so there is a 2.5 percent increase. The reason we are not happy is that, on the basis of such assumptions, I trust that we will not base our next year's budget on philosophy or such distorted economic policy, because you have already tried this once, and you have failed. In 2012, you brought in the 2013 budget, you brought it in May, there was a vote on it in December, and you managed to amend it seven times, and then there was an eighth amendment to the law that was already adopted at the time. When I hear from you that this is a budget of stability and predictability, please take into account everything I have said before. If the rate of the forint is only 1 percent different than what you set, this HUF 303 will be only 1 percent different, if inflation is only half a percent higher than what you said, then I think that we will not succeed in implementing this budget and we will change it very soon. This may have led to the fact that the debt formula, which György Matolcsy said was the world's most modern, or at least the most modern, debt formula in Europe, which helps us a lot - I tried to quote it literally - you didn't use it, did you? The Fiscal Council also drew attention to this, and as a result, György Matolcsy, a member of the Fiscal Council, did not sign his report to the Fiscal Council. This is not stability and predictability, this haste, fellow Members. There's something to be rushed about, and we're trying to figure out why it's so hasty. In the last budgetary amendment debate - not so long ago, the day before yesterday - we talked several times about the purchase of public shares in Erste Bank, the agreements behind it. Didn't you just have to bring in this budget in May so that the reduction of the bank tax would be carved in stone by agreement with the EBRD? I think in this budget, it's the only thing you've ever wanted to engrave in stone. Everything else in this budget will move, and it will therefore be very, very difficult to implement. Allow me to touch on a sector, just because there may have been little mention of it, even though we have discussed it a lot here in Parliament, this is a question of health. 1923 billion forints, if I remember correctly, that's how much money you and your E-cassa have planned. The contributions paid by Hungarian employees and employers cover around 60.4 percent of this amount, and yet there will be a lack of resources, even if the state reaches very, very deep into its pockets, but this budget will still be scarce. What made you think that if something last year wasn't enough, that if there was such a big debate this year about the debt of hospitals and EMMI hospitals in the health sector, then what made you think that the same amount of money would be enough? Let's see: the healing-preventive activity, the curative-preventive work gets 600 million forints less. The National Ambulance Service, which has now shut down all aircraft procurement, has stopped helicopter procurement, people are leaving because they say that rescue doctors and paramedics can't support their families, the National Ambulance will receive as much money for forints and pennies in the following year, in 2016 as it received in 2015. What do we expect that improvement from then? And the cynical answer to that is that Mihály Varga gave us that we have to spend less on health care because there are fewer people in the country, so I think that if we milk one mistake with the other, we have not found the solution, but we have given a very, very cynical wrong answer that cannot be agreed with. [[14.00]] The budget now earns HUF 200-220 billion as a source. They are not putting this into this budget, because they have already taken out 350 billion, but are trying to keep it at a level. Again, the same method, the same thinking continues, which has been before, that you do not assess capacity, you do not assess ability, you do not assess needs, but simply declare that there is so much money to do so, and that this should be resolved. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I'd like to compare some data. The National Rescue Service receives the same amount of money as it received last year or this year for penny-forints. We discussed the annual accounts of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority not long ago. Do you know that the media authority has more resources than the National Rescue Service has accumulated since its establishment in the past year? You have lost your sense of reality very seriously, I think. When we spend hundreds of billions on sport and spend only 120 billion on it, I think it's a sports-friendly government, not a family-friendly government. I believe that what is today's news - and supports the same argument that I have said so far, you have not been able to solve it now, nor can you solve it next year - is that you have agreed with the large suppliers in health to pay the capital debts without interest, but you can only pay half of the small suppliers out of the money you have saved for this because you do not manage well because you are irresponsible in farming. That is why we will not be able to support this budget. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-28-100	Welcome back, we'll continue with the budget negotiations. Good work, everyone. Mr Gergely Tapolczai is the next speaker, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-101	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised because I thought I had another congressman in front of me, but I'm next. My speech will address society in a narrower framework, and I would like to address people with disabilities and persons with disabilities. Before I turn to the 2016 budget, I would like to remind my fellow Members of what happened when the 2015 budget was adopted, of the positive progress made in the lives of national advocacy organisations representing people with disabilities. The members of the National Disability Council also received an increase in support. This brings us back to the 2009 level. As is known, after the 2008 crisis, the annual support of these organisations was reduced by half or two thirds, and then we gradually stepped forward in raising them. In the spirit of the previous national disability programme, we have begun to eject people with disabilities, called deinstitutionalisation. In recent years, 660 people with disabilities have been dismembered from the large number of institutions from a source of HUF 6 billion. In support of sign language translation services, support for basic habilitation of visually impaired people was increased by 5 percent. Based on the previous national disability programme, we supported accessibility and accessibility of public services with HUF 5.2 billion. Furthermore, the National Disability Council regularly meets, and I usually attend these meetings. This spring we adopted the National Disability Programme for the new phase, which is a long-term programme until 2020. This is gonna be a ten-year stretch. I'd like to talk about details of this later. I turn to the chapter of the State Secretary for Social and Social Inclusion of the EMMI. You can see that there is about HUF 5.2 billion more in support of this chapter compared to the 2015 budget. Among the various appropriations managed by the chapter, there are some where there has been an increase, some where there has been a decrease. This does not mean that there has been a real decrease, but that there are transfers and transfers, and that the tasks will be carried out from another source. Overall, this is a positive step forward. I would like to highlight some of the items that lead to a greater positive change. This is the support of companies with disabilities, which increased by HUF 5 billion. This brings us back to the 2014 level. I stress that they received the same thing in 2014, only this 5 billion forints of EU funding was provided, the difference now is that this 5 billion forint is already included in the 2016 budget. Support for non-state human service providers for social purposes has also increased, with HUF 1.6 billion more in this amount. The support of the National Rehabilitation and Social Office has also increased by HUF 354 million, so employers who employ people with disabilities can apply for more money and receive more budget support. And we can continue with accreditation. It is important, so far, that a new line of support has not been included in the budget, support for programmes to promote the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market, and this task will be supported by HUF 180 million. This provides support for employers and employers who provide potential jobs and job opportunities for people with disabilities. It is about supporting sensitizing programmes, the possibility of using people with disabilities, how to use them, how to help them, and how to encourage them. These are provided by the budget for employers. You can see that support services expect a reduction in the budget of community benefits, social work on the street, the start of the Commissioner. However, this does not mean that this amount is actually decreasing, but that it will be transferred to the support line of local authorities. We're talking about an extra 2 billion forints. Local authorities will ensure that these tasks are carried out. In addition to all these positive steps, I would like to mention that I have tabled a proposal for an amendment, which is intended to bring more support back to the 2014 level, such as support for the aforementioned advocacy organisations. This amount has been reduced by 1 percent in several places, and I do not think that is justified. [[14.10]] I think it is important that we keep the 2015 level. It is important that all members of the National Disability Council receive the same level of support as this year. I would like to mention that in the last year, several new organisations who have become members of the Disability Council have received the same support in the next budget. With the amendments, I would like to help sign language translation services receive an extra 5 percent more support, as the demand for interpretation services is constantly increasing, making basic and additional support not enough, which is why I proposed an extra 5 percent increase. In my amendment, I propose to keep a level of support for autistic homes, intellectually injured and housing homes for people with multiple disabilities. The 2015 level should be maintained, with an annual amount of HUF 190 million. I would like to stress that, in the spirit of the new National Disability Programme, we will continue to disincentive people with disabilities, and in the period 2014-20 we plan to do so with HUF 36 billion from EU funds to ensure that the process of disincentive is continuously ensured and that this process is accelerated. It is also very important to have accessibility, based on the previous disability programme and the action plan, it was provided with HUF 5.2 billion, and the new programme, based on a new action plan, plans to provide the government with HUF 8.5 billion by 2020, in particular public services. It is also very important to mention that, on the basis of previous experience, accessibility has not been achieved everywhere as it should have been. The solution they chose was unprofessional. To prevent this, we will provide a 1.5 billion HUF so-called follow-up project to ensure that accessibility in all areas of life really takes place professionally. Finally, I would like to mention that I am pleased that next year's participation in and preparation for the Olympics and Paralympics is ensured in the field of sport and disability. I am joining my fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, and I am also very confident that the social sector, together with this year's wage supplement, will indeed start building a social career model and thus meet the needs of and guarantee the needs of those working in the social sector. This is a task that we still owe, and I hope we will do it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-102	Thank you very much, Congressman, and thank you very much for your work. And now, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-05-28-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that István Nagy, State Secretary, is also in the Chamber, because today, again, the Ministry of Agriculture, and in particular, the expenditure on environmental protection, and the related figures of the budget, are the main topics of my speech. After all, these figures have now been mentioned, and I would like the Secretary of State to put order in this regard in the minds of fellow Members and speakers, because, among other things, I do not understand that, by the deadline of 30 April, the integration of environmental authorities into government offices has taken place. Only the second degree, the National Inspectorate for Environment and Nature, remained under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture. Now, the figures in the budget do not reflect this, as the exact HUF 5 billion is HUF 106,9 million for a penny, which last year was included in the figures of the Ministry of Agriculture for the financing of environmental and nature protection authorities, the same is now under the heading of the National Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection. So only the second degree left at the Ministry of Agriculture will receive this subsidy amount. However, the ten regional supervisors that have been placed under the authority of the government offices have virtually no additional personnel allowances, the hundreds of staff that have now been placed under the authority of the government offices, have no resources for any additional personal benefits. We do not understand where the salaries of these hundreds of people have disappeared and how environmental authorities will be ensured in government offices. I would like to get an answer to this question from the Secretary of State, because, once again, the number of workings of the Green Authority at the Government Offices should now appear in the section of the Prime Minister's Office, but there is no source in this regard. In this respect, I regret the fact that the Prime Minister's Secretary of State is not in the Chamber right now, because we should get an answer from their side in the other direction. It is also regrettable, as can be seen in the draft budget and in the tables set out in the annex, that it will fall from 330 billion to 233 billion, by HUF 87 billion. reduces the level of environmental expenditure; which would have been low even if it had remained at the previous year level, given how many cases have come up in recent years which partly support the need to strengthen environmental authorities, partly to confirm that it was a mistake to bleed out or eliminate the national environmental remediation programme, although I note in brackets that it would also be worth examining how the money spent on it has been used. I have a lot of experience with this, but the point is that there should be some kind of source for this, since the dangerous waste dump found in Balmazújváros, which is abandoned, in liquidation, the hazardous waste found on Scented Road, the Cséry site, the drinking water pollution problem in Abasár all suggest that there is so much pollution in the soil, in many places in the country that it is a time bomb that threatens the lives, health, drinking water and food of people living in a settlement from minute to minute. And the only way to find out is if a civil society organisation or the local population goes up and demands that this be eradicated, as happened on Scenty Road, or, let's say, in the case of asbestos at the Selypian cement factory, as happened in Balmazújváros with the help of civilians, and I can still give examples. Every week, new events of pollution and environmental damage continue to emerge, because, if there was a source, it was not properly spent. And now there has been no environmental remediation in the budget for years, which is a huge problem, because if I wanted to take a concrete example, it happened during the first Orbán government - it happened in quotes - the remediation of Garé's hazardous waste disposal or temporary hazardous waste storage, which took place when thousands of barrels there were transported and burned at a cost of HUF 3.6 billion, or at least the barrels were destroyed. Those barrels stood there 10 to 20 years ago, corroded, their contents largely spilled into the ground. Now, if anyone goes to Garé, they're going to visit this colony, which, by the way, nobody's guarding anymore, so they're free to walk in and out of here, anyone, I did it last week as they walked in, and at that moment, they're getting a terrible smell of chemicals. [[14.20]] And you can see, with a clear sense of smell almost visible to the naked eye, that the chemical is still present in the soil after tens of years, because the barrels have been taken away, but the large amount of water has leaked into the soil, there has not been any remediation, it has been pushed into a pile or two, and they have allowed it to continue to leak. Over the decades, it reaches the drinking water base, practically the Garé drinking water and groundwater wells can no longer be used, as already a few years after the change of regime, the chemicals that were also transported there with similar contents to the barrels on Scenty Road were also waste of Budapest Chemicals, tetrachlorobenzene and other similar delicacies, which were extremely carcinogenic, toxic, and were disposed of in various places in the country. So these people's health is still threatened as a time bomb, and a very serious programme should be put in place to eradicate them. This is perhaps the most serious deficiency of the budget's figures on environmental protection. But once again, on the governance of the last five years, the Orbán government, the second and third Orbán governments, seems to be treating the environmental sector as a kind of stepchild. It started with the end of the independent ministry, and until now it has been until the integration of the Green Authority into the Government Office, or even longer, if there is still room to destroy in this sector. You may say that efficiency and various administrative and organizational tasks justify this integration into the government office, but then, once again, I do not understand where the staff, the staff costs of that hundreds of staff, the wage costs of which we had last year, and now there is no growth at government offices, even though their personnel are supposed to be growing by hundreds. In addition, the Ministry of National Development had a budget of HUF 650 million, which decreased to HUF 116 million this year. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development may answer that question as to why this happened. Therefore, there is still plenty of work to be done both in the environment and in energy efficiency. The amendments I tabled were very brief at the end, as I once again tabled the same amendments concerning the problems of Lake Balaton, which I submitted last year, and for which nothing really happened. My question is still that, and I would like the government to do something about it, if not by accepting my amendments, but in any way that actually helps the people living there, the shore of Lake Balaton is part-rehabilitation, i.e. the destruction of illegal uploads, buildings, free access to the waterfront and the development of Lake Balaton in general, as the Balaton Development Council, although, let's say, this year, the development costs of Lake Balaton are 70 million forints, but this is still very little, and the Balaton region sees the damage. I would not go into this in detail with regard to the amendment, since my fellow Members will be able to see the figures for this in particular. To sum up, I could say that the Hungarian environmental sector is bleeding from several wounds, and that it needs such extensive intervention, which, with amendments to this draft budget, can no longer be resolved, since, once again, we are talking about a five-year deep flight, a falling flight that is still not over, and which threatens the health of Hungarian people, the state of the environment, almost literally now, because in vain, we are always in a fire-fighting situation, if the other, dozens or even a hundred emergencies are in the same place, and there lie under our feet the many pollutants that have been accumulated over decades and have not yet been eliminated. So I'm gonna need some answers on these. I hope that I will also receive concrete answers from Secretary of State István Nagy. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-05-28-104	Thank you very much. Your hope quickly came true, because the Secretary of State is here. Mr. Secretary of State István Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to answer some of the questions that have been asked here immediately, because one part is indeed a prompt response and a figure, and the other one is a matter of principle that we need to clarify with each other. Both Mr Schiffer and Mr Lajos Kepli have been pushing the numbers of the green budget and the environmental budget and expressing their incomprehensiveness, as it seems to mean that there is a decrease of about 49 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. You may think that this is not the case in reality, and I'll tell you where the 630 billion forints went instead of 321 for reality. The Annex to the draft budget law of 2016 includes the functional table, which shows that the amount allocated to the environmental function is indeed decreasing in 2016 compared to 2015. The reason for this is that a number of appropriations are allocated to each function in the functional function. This is also the case with environmental protection. The reason for the decrease is temporary and can be justified by the evolution of EU funds because 2015 is the final year of the EU support period 2007-13. What you're missing is the self-costs that are part of the past cycle, the last year's construction. So, in practice, if we wanted to be fair, we should have heard from our fellow Members about the amount of money that comes into the environment at last year's budget. At the same time, if we are just and look at how the resources for environmental protection are really coming along year after year, you can see that there is an increase in this year, as follows. In the draft budget law of 2016, KEOP, i.e. the closure of the environmental and energy operational programme, will reduce the amount of funding allocated to environmental functions compared to 2015 but this year's start-up year will be the year 2014-20 of the CFP, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme, and the continued increase in payments from the CCP will be expected in the coming years. I would like to inform you that, within the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, the promotion of environmental protection will increase by HUF 268 million compared to 2015. The funding of the institutions will continue to be at an adequate level in 2016, and there will be no withdrawal of funds in this area. As the priority is to preserve and improve the state of protected natural areas and values, the National Park Board will receive 700 million HUF more funding in 2016 than in 2015. Let me give you one more piece of data before I move on to principle. Between 2014-20, in this EU cycle, HUF 1100 billion will be allocated to environmental and nature conservation investments. You know it, and I know it, and I think we all know, my fellow Member, that this amount has never been spent on environmental investments in Hungary for a cycle. It's a matter of principle. We talk about it many times, and indeed, we can also say that it has burned to our fingernails, and it has been the task of this government to liquidate the landfills that are dangerous to the environment. We have defined a principled decision, the principle of paying for the pollution. The problem is that when such plants were privatised in the 1990s, they purchased these plants with an indemnification and discharge obligation. Different, countless tricks for companies to fail, leaving the trash mountain behind. And today, interestingly, no one and you are counting on those owners, but on the Hungarian government, which has nothing to do with it but indirectly, because there is no one else to go to, and there is no one else to be asked to do so. [[14.30]] I think we were exemplary in 2015. Balmazújváros, now Scenty road - I do not think the Member can say that the government, in addition to its potential, is not trying to solve these tasks. We also know that if we brought all of them here to Parliament now, there is no money in Hungary today that can save the whole thing. So there is no other option for the agricultural wallet, the environmental secretary of state than to take stock of these landfills, to start working on an exemption action plan, how to solve the situation every year, the situation, the problem that can still be dealt with and solved. But I think you can see that it cost more than 1 billion forints in Balmazújváros, and the solution of the Scent Road costs 1.2 billion forints, so it's an awful amount of money that comes up, all of which should have been done by the owner there. Instead, the owner will be lost, and the Hungarian State will remain, who can be called to account, and this discharge will have to be totally unfairly claimed. I believe that all the legal procedures and legal channels for which the responsible ones must be sought must be stated, that the polluter pays, he must be guaranteed that these landfills and very dangerous landfill sites are eliminated. But accusing the Hungarian Government of disinheriting the environment, of not investing enough capacity, I think, in terms of its potential, and, as the examples show, I think it is safe to say that we are trying to free and protect the environment from day to day, at a very high level, by moving very large forces, by continuing a heroic struggle. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-106	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's a two-minute lap. First, Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-107	Thank you very much. I'm listening to the socialists here, and I'm thinking maybe we should be a little more modest. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] They say it's a budget for hopelessness and hit-and-run. Ladies and gentlemen, It would have been so good if, between 2002 and 2010, such a hopeless and disappointing budget had been put before Parliament, in which, let us say, there was a budget deficit of 2 per cent. So, unfortunately, you've never managed to keep the budget deficit below 2 percent, or less than 4 percent, while... [[Péter Cseresnyés: 7-8 percent.]] What? So while, let's say, the Fidesz government, the first civilian government between 1998 and 2002, reduced the central bank base rate from 19% to 8.5 percent, to be more precisely: the central bank reduced it, also thanks to the Fidesz government's economic policy. Technically, in your case, it's stuck in your time, and in eight years, the central bank's base rate has barely decreased. Let me highlight just one figure: in 2016 the debt burden will be around HUF 70 billion lower than in 2015. Think of how much, how many hundred billion forints we have paid in the last few years since 2010 and, in fact, from 2005 to 2006, completely unnecessary because of you, because we received loans for expensive, bad judgment. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is the 3000 billion, Márius?]] If the debt burden is reduced by HUF 70 billion in one year! So, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about hopelessness and a lot of other things, think about how you can bring stadiums and a lot of things you say all the time, but we lost more in interest expenditure than this country has spent on sports in five years. Thank you very much. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You finance the country from the market, right? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-108	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli in two minutes, Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-109	Thank you very much. Minister of State, as regards the polluter-pays principle, the State does have a dog duty to intervene in cases where the country's last natural resources, such as our soil and our drinking water base, are at risk when there is a risk that if they become polluting, there will be damage to a level that no man can afford. It is indeed the duty of the State to intervene in order to find out who to iron the costs on, whether the polluter pays or does not pay, because it does not exist and has long since been eliminated, that is another question. Again, this raises interesting questions as to why, while the company was still in a position to pay, it has not been cleared, but this goes back longer than it has been for the last 25 years. However, to ask us why we don't go to companies that don't even exist anymore, and we should enforce the polluter pays principle? ! I just want to ask you this: has anyone ever been called for the red sludge disaster in 2010? Have you ever been held accountable? Has anyone ever been seized or arrested? Did anyone pay a single penny of their private assets because ten people died there and there was a billionaire financial damage? And then we can talk about who's responsible for the polluter's pay and who's counting. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-110	Thank you. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2015-05-28-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, that's the hit-and-run budget, Márius Révész. I'm saying it because just think about your thoughts and your previous thoughts. In terms of employment, praises are sung, while everyone knows that if public employment did not want to improve statistics, the story would be practically nothing more than an unemployment rate of more than 10 per cent. It's more of a value maker - a value maker! - provide people with work activities [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Don't look down on them! Look at the settlements.]] not to take 170,000 more people out of the unemployed, put them in the workforce, to look stupid, to see how good the situation is in Hungary, while these public workers earn less wages than they did in 2010. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's not true!]] But this is also true of those employed abroad, the hundreds of thousands of people who are recorded in Hungarian statistics, and thousands more examples could be given, the reemployment of people who have been fired from the public sector for hunger and much more. But if it's employment, I'll add the question of pay to you. Then, when you talk about the increase in real wages, you should also face the fact that the minimum wage man today takes 5 thousand forints less money than he did five years ago. Face it, too, that the minimum amount of living is estimated today, because only the 2013 is published by the KSH - 87 500, the estimated current 92-93 thousand, and the total of the minimum wage is 24 thousand HUF more than the minimum wage. The scissors are growing. So poverty doesn't grow? So it doesn't widen, so it doesn't deepen poverty? Face it, too, that their sixth budget is submitted and the civil servant's salary is unchanged, HUF 38 650, a single penny has not changed in these six years, and thousands of such things could be said. One word, like a hundred, I want you to look in the mirror, look at the last five years, and then stand up to express such thoughts. It is no coincidence that there is a multitude of Fidesz organisations that have ceased to exist. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What we're dealing with today. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Márius Révész: In some parts of the country they have ceased. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-28-112	On behalf of the government, István Nagy, State Secretary asked for the floor. Here you go. [[Noise.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just want to take your time for a few sentences. MAL Zrt. The legal proceedings in the case of the red sludge disaster have not yet been completed. You don't think someone can get away with that without being held accountable. But I also have to tell you that the government has acted responsibly. I don't know if there's ever been any examples of a disaster like this building a new part of the settlement and supplying new homes to the victims. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Was, in 2000, after the flood, but it was also us.]] I think it's an opportunity that once again there's no precedent for someone building something like this and helping. I agree that there is a general responsibility to protect drinking water and soil. That is precisely why the government is acting responsibly, and that is why it is doing all the compensation and discharge in the individual settlements. I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that when the government's responsibility is mentioned in general, let us not forget at least that there was a villain somewhere who committed not to exempt it and left it on the government's neck, because it is fair and fair, if we say all this, and if by saying this, we miss all the effort that the government is making from billion to billion and from a hazardous waste disposal to a hazardous waste storage facility, then let us tell the whole truth and full responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will now return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. Here comes Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz. [[14.40]]
u2015-05-28-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are also talking about the budget for tax cuts when we are discussing the draft budget for 2016, but I also think it is safe to say that there will be a budget for economic recovery. And that there is truth in this statement, perhaps it is also justified by what my fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, has said in this comment that there is data about a process that has been going on for many years, a process of continuous development, a continuous recovery in the economy, and the stability of the budget. But where we've come from, I would like to talk about it, and I would like to talk about it by reading some data, telling us where we are now and where we are going next year. While Hungary was in a difficult situation even compared to the Greeks in 2010, with high public debt, low employment and poor competitiveness indicators, significant progress has now been made in a number of important areas. Since 2010, our public debt has been falling, we have managed to reduce the government deficit to below 3 per cent, and nearly 400 000 more people have jobs compared to the 2010 government change. [[Zoltán Haughty: I think it's a million! Dr. Peter Hoppál: Statistics!]] I would like to give a figure to my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, who, in his comments and speeches for these two days, almost prayer-maltically repeats certain data and certain concepts that the number of people employed is now above 4 million, while in your time it was permanently below 4 million. [[Nándor Gúr: I'll explain it to you!]] And how much the minimum wage is worth in real terms is right for you, I have serious doubts because I see that you, by the way, are the ones who determine it for yourself. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They should be asked!]] the meaning of the concepts. For example, they keep talking about poor and poverty when they don't even define who the poor man is, because if I want to be mean and bad now, then it's because you're organizing a hunger march, or I don't even know what to call it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shame on you!]] Those of you who were involved in that, such as Gábor Simon, were poor people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't insult those who were there. Anita Herring: Do you have any reason? Nothing?]] But back to the budget: thanks to the government's work and successful fiscal policy, Hungary has been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure since 2004, which reflects badly on your governance. In addition, the government's efforts are now recognised by the European Commission and international organisations, with a uniform budget deficit of less than 3 per cent for 2015 and 2016 and a balanced economic growth of around 3 per cent. Since 2010, the government's economic policy has been focused on increasing employment, improving the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses, ensuring balanced economic growth and reducing public debt and keeping budget deficits below the Maastricht criteria. Everything shows that Hungary has a good chance of becoming a European success story based on its performance in the coming years. On the basis of current developments, we can continue to be able to keep budget deficits below 3 per cent in the coming years and achieve stable economic growth. Accordingly, 2016 will be a year of steps towards tax reductions and full employment. This is also addressed by changes in tax laws. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the change of government in 2010, economic policy has been aimed at increasing employment, improving competitiveness and ensuring balanced economic growth. To this end, the government has made significant structural changes over the last nearly five years, including in the fields of labour market, pension system, tax system, education and public administration. The development of businesses is our priority, since the complex development of companies with growth potential, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing their ability to generate income and improving market positions contribute greatly to the performance of the Hungarian economy. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to further develop advanced technological intensive activities, to root out high added-value production and strategic services in Hungary, and to modernise and strengthen the role of the SME sector in employment. In order to increase the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses, the opportunities for Hungarian businesses will be multiplied in the 2014-2020 development cycle. A total amount of more than EUR 34 billion is coming to Hungary, as is known. This, together with the necessary domestic co-financing, represents a HUF 12 000 billion development in the coming years. The government prioritises the use of EU funds, spending more than HUF 1400 billion on programmes and investments from EU funds during the cycle, which is 4 percent of GDP, and this is all for this particular economic recovery. Development resources coming to our country must be used in a targeted way, using 60% of resources for economic development based on increasing employment and competitiveness. It is particularly important to integrate enterprise organisation and human resources development, job creation and the use of information, communication technology, technologies and applications and business and market development activities within each enterprise development project. In order to further stimulate economic growth, the corporate tax on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary remains low. From 2011 the government reduced corporate tax from 19 to 10 percent to 500 million HUF tax base. The preferential tax option remains next year, and, as we heard yesterday, there is a plan for further mitigation, which is planned. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2006 LIX on special tax and contributions to improve the balance of public finances. In accordance with the amendment to Act No 5 of the Act of 9 February 2015, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of Hungary on 9 February 2015, the bank tax rate for credit institutions will be reduced from 0,53% in 2016 to 0.31%. The reduction in the key is unconditionally applicable to all credit institutions, so the application of the more favourable rate is not linked to an increase in lending activity, but, of course, it is expected that lending will recover, which will also boost the economy and help businesses. It was also an important measure to increase the competitiveness of domestic businesses that, from 1 January 2014, the VAT rates of live and whole and half pigs decreased from 27 per cent to 5 per cent after a 22 percentage point reduction. The aim of this provision was to increase the competitiveness of domestic processors, reduce the black economy, save old jobs and create new jobs. In order to ensure that these positive effects of the key reduction are reflected throughout the whole course of the product, it is also appropriate to classify the sale of pig meat under the reduced rate of 5% from 1 January 2016. Thus, the measure involving approximately HUF 25 billion in VAT can bring positive results and positive purchasing opportunities for Hungarian families. The 2012 CLXVIII on the tax on public utility lines. By way of amendment of law, to encourage the establishment of public utility lines on a new track, in particular communication lines, and the development of existing communications lines, the tax liability shall not start until five years after their entry into service. [[14.50]] This measure also refers to investments, including, indirectly, economic development, job creation and encourages companies in the sector to further develop. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2016 budget, perhaps we can say, will be a budget for tax reductions not only for Hungarian families, but also for domestic economic operators. The objective of budget planning was to maintain stability, keep public debt on a declining path, a low general government deficit, increasing employment and increasing economic performance. Our aim is to adopt, in the spirit of predictability, predictability and planning, a budget that will create the necessary conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary to increase their competitiveness, thus contributing to enabling Hungarian companies to engage in international competition as effectively as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-116	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Zoltán Gőgös, Member of MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Márius Révész left, I just told him that I hope he goes to the Ormany to preach the verb he has spoken here, that everything is good and good, and everything is fine. I'm afraid that your information doesn't come from where it's supposed to be, but from the statistical numbers that make all reality disappear, in the sense that just because someone eats lunch twice and the other one doesn't once, the average is that they're both full, but in practice, that's not the case. That's what I called your attention to, and when you say that you're being modest, then I think that starting a government cycle by stealing 3,000 billion, and then creating a worse situation after five years than they started, that's pretty amazing. I would like to point out that all the sayings here about excellent economic policy are false. I'm just saying two things that contradict that. How much was the euro when government was taken over, and how much now? What did this cost hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary? So I wouldn't be so proud of us. Besides, it seems that this brilliant economic policy has resulted in the loss of elections in Newpesten, Veszprém and Tapolca. This can be used to measure the performance of a government, and not to measure the statistical data that just anyone brings to us, which, of course, he himself, relying on Churchill's saying, has forged. There have been several comments that I have to respond to in a sentence or two. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the Devecseri houses here. We haven't been able to get the energy certificates to this day, Mr. Secretary. I wouldn't be so proud of those, either. You have to go there, then you have to talk to the people who live there, why they pay 70,000 forints in a 70-square-meter house. It's easy to build houses with public money! And that furniture tender they did there, I think it's the top of everything. But I don't want to get into the red mud, it wouldn't be elegant, because I live there, and I'm not sure they can answer everything. If Kontra Karchi were here, he might, but he obviously wouldn't. [[György Szilágyi: Karesz!]] Excuse me, I've known him for 40 years. That may be acceptable in this genre. Second, we're talking about 8 billion of the Compensation Fund. There's been a lot of hailing going on right now. I'd like to tell Simon Miklós that I'm sure they're doing everything right, but I don't know why I get 30 phone calls a day on this case. 'Cause if everything was okay, they wouldn't be looking for me across the country to find out what the problem is in Satmar. The problem, my fellow Member, and I say to Mr Secretary of State, is that 8 billion, unfortunately, will remain, because in the last three years virtually no one has access to this Compensation Fund, because its system has become so complex, they have made such procedural rules that if an undertaking does not only work in that particular thing, but also in other things, it is almost impossible to have access to it, because it is calculated for its entire economy or management, compared to the last three years, and from then on, if one has a few hectares of fruit or vegetable, but is also carrying out arable activities, it is almost impossible to be a source of this fund. In addition, we need a quick solution here, in the sense that, at least, at least, some kind of state guarantee loan immediately, because it could be money at the earliest in the spring of next year. I think we need to take this case more seriously. Obviously, a lot of people are also showing up because they don't believe that anything is happening because there have been a lot of these problems, and farmers are usually stuck everywhere. The only difference was that they got 5 billion forints at the event where I was at the time in Nagykálló. That was the difference between then thinking and now, and then Magos and now. I can only confirm that. One more thing has come up, VAT, and that would be the subject of the budget; it is true that the rest, as it all has budgetary implications. There is a rather perverse redistribution system in Hungary, we have been saying this for years, and it seems to continue this year as well. We have presented the VAT reduction proposal for basic foods six times. I know, usually the answer is, yeah, we took it down to 20, then we raised it to 25. Yeah, and then the Fidesz is 27, but the answers never mention that. And neither did we make an 18 percent key for milk and bread, so that anyone who really is in need can buy with at least reduced VAT keys, because it is less than 20, I would like to indicate. I think that in the 1 percent reduction, who has a HUF 1 million income, that is 10 thousand forints a month, and that is pure money. Whoever has a minimum wage of 100,000 forints is a thousand forints a month. If the HUF 120 billion was spent on the VAT reduction package that we submitted six times, which is in agreement with all the product councils, it would amount to approximately HUF 5-6 thousand per month for minimum wage consumption. Five, six thousand forints a month! There is no luxury in that, contrary to Fidesz's proposal, which was submitted by Sándor Font in our time, which demanded an immediate VAT reduction. I've been thinking about filing it, but I'm not crazy enough to make a $700 billion cut on the budget, because that's what it would have meant. So much for the seriousness of the opposition at the time. After that, however, they refuse to accept a 120 billion-dollar package, while still spending 70 billion forints on stadiums, and we are slowly getting there that we will not have as many NB I teams as we have excellent stadiums for billions. Unfortunately, even in my own town, if we're lucky, the team will be able to run in the county second class, if the county third-class winner doesn't want to run in the county second class. And it will have a stadium with a maintenance cost of millions of forints a year. This is the papal stadium; it was the last one. Unfortunately, it ended very sad because there are gangsters all around football, and unfortunately, the government has been very helpful to these gangsters. And that's the end of it! That was the end of Pope, and that was the end of many other places, Pécs, and so forth. There should be a sane explanation for this, that we do not want to reduce VAT, although Romania will reduce VAT in the entire food chain from 24 to 9 percent, except for alcoholic beverages, and Slovakia will also reduce basic food from 20 to 10 percent this month. I would like to ask what will happen to us when Hungary is still a VAT fraud center in Europe. So far, at least we have had two countries with similar VAT rates. It's nearly as much, not so much, because it was less in Slovakia, but it was very close in Romania. From now on, there will be almost no product that they do not want to place on the market in Hungary by VAT fraud. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the EKÁER. I read in the paper that the dairy people were completely calmed down because the Food Safety Agency took out 8,000 liters of milk from the market because of its uncertain origin. I would like to indicate that a normally functioning 300-piece stock produces more in one day - one day it produces more! - 8,000 liters. Then why are we so damn proud of this? There are tens of thousands of gallons of problems here, people. Here, thousands of tankers move the milk that they are trying to sell to the Hungarian population at a printed price! And they're right, because we're so miserable, we're only reducing it to pork. The pork is okay, no one says it's not okay, but at least the substitute product, the poultrymeat, should be placed next to the minimum, and the liquid milk affected by the biggest VAT fraud. These two wouldn't be 30 billion forints. The poultry meat and liquid milk together are 30 billion forints. But how much money goes to bullshit, Mr. Secretary? How much money goes away? It's a margin of error in a budget this big! And how much would it bring back? It would bring a lot back. Among other things, the Hungarian dairy industry would not die, the Hungarian livestock farmers would not die. There was talk of compensation for the grants, but I don't want to take the time of the others, and we'll pick it up tomorrow, and you'll be here, too, I suppose. [[15.00]] The problem with all of this is that there has been a level of withdrawal in agriculture in a certain circle that cannot be compensated. I know, you'll tell me they'll pay you back $50 billion; 100 have been towed, partly through the AKG and partly by the reduction of the area payment at the animal owners. We have made it clear, and Europe has done this: those who have employment should not be punished, and those who work on 5 and 10 thousand hectares should be punished. But where 200-300 people work, say, 3,000 hectares, let's not withdraw funding because that's because there are other activities there, not three months of work a year. And someone doesn't understand that, they're making a very big mistake. I think we have to go there - Font Sándor is not here, he has gone, I am very happy to take him to the farm where, by the way, I just indicate that 25,000 liters of milk is produced a day, and he has a loss of half a million forints a day. Because the price of milk is down 25 percent. And now we're going to get 7 forints or 8 forints or 12 forints back, and no one knows that because it's not written down, I just want to signal it. But in the meantime, they took the AKG and took half the area payment. Now, from now on, you'll have to go to the 200 people and the six mayors at the border of the six villages - Karchi, you live close, you can go out there and to their eyes, so to their eyes, that gentlemen, we've ruined their jobs. Because it's the right thing to do. It's not that I'm slitting her wrists, but it's not that deep, it's either gonna kill her or it's not. That's what's happening now, people. Let us understand that this sector will be destroyed in this agricultural policy. And who's the favourite? My own buddies are favorites. For Lazarus may keep his lands in Gorzha, but Beaver-Mezőmazda Rt., which gives work to 500 people, is no longer. They're two kilometers apart, people! Mezőhegyes: 270 years ago founded by II. Joseph, the third Orbán will destroy him. Who's that for now? Why is it good to destroy the largest seed producer in Hungary, giving work to at least a thousand people in seasonal work, so that some friends have land support? Why is it good to take the pasture away from small family estates that have been farming on Hortobágy for 50 years, so that large family farms - not farms, because there are no animals - can win it? There are representatives here from the Hortobágy area. Mr. Simon, why didn't the gym buddy need that 300 acres of land, why couldn't he stay with the pasture he had before him? Why did they do such a trick that they started a local business and then sold the company to another 100 kilometers away? Why would they do that? You were in on it, too. This will all come out sooner or later. So take good care of this, because this is a very, very bad direction, believe me, it's the wrong way. Mr. Secretary, we will continue tomorrow, because there are still a thousand problems. But I think that this budget solves nothing, that it pushes the Hungarian agriculture into the abyss. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-28-118	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, István Nagy, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The only way I can respond to our proud fellow Member's emotionally heated comment is if we come back to the ground of reality. For if you have looked at the data of the KSH, if you have looked at what Hungarian agriculture performs in 2014 and 15 then everything you have said is not so and has not been implemented. So that you have fears, that there are emotional storms, that still Hungarian agriculture is doing excellently, and that you are taking full advantage of all the opportunities that you have. My colleague, Mr Simon Miklós, is working very hard in the Ministry to ensure that the de-icing system can be implemented in a uniform system at national level. And I think that as a representative of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, you are doing the right thing, because, as the example shows, this area has suffered a very serious ice damage. I don't know why the farmers are calling you, I'm sure they're saying that when you're in trouble, it's good to share the pain, the difficulty with others, that the more you put on your shoulders, the easier it is to endure. I have to say to you that the 8 billion HUF and the possibility is that if the villagers are visited within 15 days of the damage, the damage will be assessed and compensation will be obtained. Not for as long a time as you described it, but in the foreseeable future, the farmers will be with their money. You're accusing the government of practically nothing happening. Let me just say, in the short history of my life, since I've been a secretary of state, we started with a cherry problem, continued with a melon problem, an apple question came up, a problem with dairy farmers. My dear fellow Member, this has all meant billions of extra grants and extra assistance. Almost all sectors needed help to drain the cherry with 800 million HUF intervention, and we managed to stabilise the buying-in price at the brewed cherry. And then you can categorize it through apples and milk. With insensitiveness and non-observation of producers, this government cannot be accused, because this government is always where it is necessary to help and support farmers. You can't bomb this alliance with any speech. In the process of de-icing and precisely these subsidies, let me present a principle to you. As the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county unique case represents a recurring problem that occurs every two years, every three years. It is not possible to plan in the long term, to prepare an economic plan if these risks can always occur. This is why the Ministry of Agriculture has decided to build a unified anti-icing system covering the whole country. This is the particular soil generator method that allows us to ensure uniform coverage of the entire country so that ice damage of the same size can occur as in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. We are conducting very serious, advanced negotiations, the rural development programme includes the size of the amount spent on it, we are now coordinating with local governments and insurance companies, because it must be said that farmers are not the only ones who have to bear the burden of maintaining this, because not only can agricultural damage occur during an ice-beat, but also municipal or building damage and the like. So we are negotiating this extension, and I think that we are on the right track that, if the rural development programme is now adopted in Brussels, this programme can be developed and implemented technologically, technically, by autumn. VAT issue: There is a lot to blame the government for, but not for not taking action on this issue. You can blame us with the responsibility of not doing everything at once, because you don't have that government responsibility. A pro-government representative always has the responsibility to say only things he can promise, only those for which funds are available. It is not possible to destroy the economy with a single measure that will then not allow any developmental opportunity to be launched, because, let's say, a one-step reduction of VAT will drag the whole thing down. Therefore, I think that the Hungarian Government is acting in a very good and responsible way by trying first to collect the source that is fair to the State. He is doing the right thing when he tries to reduce all those bad- faith individuals who exploit or circumvent the legal framework in which this sector should operate, and therefore puts Hungarian dairy producers in an impossible position, let's say. I think the EKAER system, the Hungarian police, is working. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 8,000.]] You can say the 8,000, but there's only one positive message: yes, he can touch it. And from here on out, the next step is to tighten this net up even tighter, find the opportunities that you might be able to get through by playing it out. But I think we can catch them step by step, because we managed to catch them with the potatoes - so we managed to catch up with a number of agricultural products that these networks do. [[15.10]] Every day, my fellow Member can read in the press how many of these networks we're going to fail, how much you're going to be horrified when you see that there's a chain of abuse through forty companies; you're going to be horrified when you see what networks, what professional networks are going to build to avoid this. But the good news is, I tell them all - it's bad news for them - that they can only do this temporarily, that the strictness of the law will catch up with them, and they will be hit with a very hard hand, and they will be punished because they cannot bring Hungarian farmers into such an impossible situation. It has never been said by the Hungarian government that the future plan is not to reduce the VAT on basic foods. I think there is no better example than saying what is one of the outstanding accents of Hungarian consumption, pork, that the VAT of half pigs was first reduced, then the content of the cuts was reduced, and now the price of capital meat was reduced to 5 percent. They're all a process for how the market cleans up. It is not a goal, my dear fellow Member, that if we reduce VAT to 5%, then trade, let us say, will absorb the 20% we have reduced on it. This needs to be eliminated. The only way to do that is to keep it going, step by step, because then we won't make any profit. 'Cause what do we want after all? That we also return the VAT on food to people, give it back to families so that they can spend more money. But if it happens with a swing, we ruin the Hungarian budget, put the potential for growth in a hopeless position, and, thirdly, dissipate trade and don't give it to the families, then what have we achieved? We drove ourselves into a huge trap. But if we do these processes step by step, we get to the end of this process, and we can keep these money in the family, in the shoppers. It's a very important question, the question of degression comes up again and again. I must say, my dear Member - we have often fought this issue of principle here in Parliament - that those who farm over 1200 hectares have such an advantage that they can carry out agricultural activity virtually without any support. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] Let me tell you: no company farming over 1,200 hectares has come to the government to say, thank you very much, I do not wish to continue to rent the state land, I give up on the use of it for another decade. [[Zoltán Grimlock: More time!]] I'm gonna give it back, and you can just hand it out to the farmers. This didn't happen at all. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He just stops keeping animals.]] What we had to do responsibly is the following, and let me tell you about the support for the dairy sector, which is in total here in 2016: in 2016 the dairy sector will receive some HUF 43 billion, which is 20 billion more than in 2010; out of transitional national support, HUF 12.6 billion; EU-funded production aid for milk, HUF 21 billion; EU-funded production aid for protein feed, HUF 1 billion; milk welfare support for rural development, HUF 8 billion. In addition, the sector receives de minimis aid from national sources through animal health aid and other aid schemes, including dried fodder, to establish orderly market links. In addition, national funds spent only HUF 400 million on the school milk scheme in 2010, with HUF 2.6 billion available in 2016. By contrast, in 2010, support for the sector was possible only through additional national support, top-up and special milk subsidies, with a combined sum of HUF 24 billion. Due to the envisaged under-planning of current expenditure and premiums as the source of the top-up payment, this aid could not be paid in 2010. Let me just say one simple thing: support for field patrol. It is important not only to have urban or village security, but also to keep the value that is produced outside the fields safe. In order to prevent agricultural thefts and damages, 700 million HUF is available in 2016, which was only 500 million HUF in 2010. And these grants could be classified. Let me tell you one more thing, which is extremely important, because you were talking about the workforce. The action plan for the protection of jobs has also been introduced in agriculture. For workers under the age of 25 in the agricultural job, aged 55 years, employers can benefit from the social contribution tax, the discount is about HUF 6 billion per year and affects 30-35 thousand workers per month. So I think that agriculture's ability to retain labour, we have brought this up many times in connection with degression, and I just wanted to show how important this is, and the government is paying attention in detail to the preservation and even development of all jobs in rural areas, because we think that by helping the size of livestock and helping it with various subsidies, the number of employees can also increase, and we can also take into account the framework of the job protection action. I must therefore say, my fellow Member, that it is very sympathetic to you that you have serious feelings for Hungarian agriculture, but at a time when you have to be in a decisive and decisive situation, you have to take every step with a cold head, calculated, calmly and carefully. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. Mr. János Pócs, representative of Fidesz. Here.
u2015-05-28-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to comment on the debate on the budget, although it is quite difficult after the presentation of Mr Gőgös, because the Member talked about a lot about the budget from the election in Tapolca to the acquisition of furniture, including, like every week, what it feels like to have lunch twice a day. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You don't understand something, man!]] I regret that, in the debate on the budget, Congressman Gőgös does not name him in the case of Hortobágy National Park, who he always stands firm for, only István Lajtos, famous as Döbögyi in Nagyiván [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who is that?]] protects its interests [[Zoltán Haughty: But who is it?! I've never seen him before in my life. Listen.]] who could use thousands of acres of state land in Hortobágy by circumventing the land law by assisting you [[Zoltán Haughty: I've never seen him before in my life!]] by receiving a million forints a day. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I've never seen him!]] I do not know if you complained or boasted when you said you had 30 telephones on the national level. I believe that the circle of sympathizers has decreased so much if you receive so many telephones at national level, because Members only get more phones from one constituency every day. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They will never reach you, they say!]] Of course, for my part, I respect the Member's opinion. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They'll never reach you!]] It's hard to believe someone is telling the truth when we know we're lying. Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to the debate on the budget: from outside the debate on the 2016 budget, a very mixed picture of how to judge the financial planning documents before us is drawn up. If we are simply browsing the long tables and supporting texts, it is obvious to us where more could possibly be, the goals for which it would be good to spend more money. But we also need to see the lines with which we can be particularly satisfied, which are the sectors or groups to which we can all hope. A budget at some level is always a matter of bargaining and compromise. It's easy to criticize, but maybe you could admit it. To see what kind of deal has been made this time, you have to look at the budget a step further away, as do objects sometimes. In a broader perspective, it is already visible to everyone that Hungary's economy is on a growing path, that our country's international perception is improving from economic perspectives, that international credit rating agencies for which this is like pulling their teeth are also improving the country's classification. [[15.20]] Thanks to the positive processes of previous years, unemployment is falling and internal consumption is on the rise; of course, you can also look for and find negative things in this wider plane. Even if the government debt declines by HUF 70 billion in the next year to an unprecedented extent, we can also say that we want more, why so much, why no more, but the fact is that, thanks to the strained work of recent years, Hungary has continued and remains on the road to growth and growth. From this point of view, it is clear why the budget for 2016 became the budget for the debt reduction. As much of this growth as possible, all residents of the country will have to profit in the following year: next year everyone in this country will have to pay less taxes, some more will remain in their wallets. When we talk about such a budget, the budget for tax cuts, the primary beneficiaries of which are the basic pillars of society, families raising children, with an important aim of increasing employment, job creation, the aim of which is to keep earning more and earn more, which remains with the people to continue to increase consumption. And here is the point, ladies and gentlemen, where I would like to focus on agriculture, which is one of the engines of our economic growth, an important future field for job creation, a major producer of products for consumption. Overall, the agricultural chapter of the budget remains stable, with an increase compared to this year. The rural development programme, which is about to start in the new EU cycle, will be complemented by the transformation of the vocational training system, with a surplus appearing in the agricultural chapter for the operation and development of the institutions maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture. There is also much more money on the lines of agricultural research institutions than in the previous year. In the National Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation, the institutions will manage the future more effectively and from more resources. Appropriate amounts are also available for consumer protection and food chain security. As in last year, we have already talked about the increased amounts of national aid, the amount of money we hope to provide to the dairy sector, or the guarantee of the loan guarantee fund, which has also been increased. In this connection, I would like to point out that although it is possible that national aid or assistance to the dairy sector could be more, however, if we look at the circumstances in a reasonable way, we can be satisfied. I would also like to ask my honourable fellow Member to promote, in the future, not beef stew for the benefit of people living in agriculture and dairy producers, but rather for the sake of buttermilk. [[Defiance.]] This approach is perhaps also more than the support provided in the previous period, which I would like to point out to our fellow Member in particular, as the current aid is significantly more than six to seven years ago; significantly more than the programmes of the neighbouring countries, domestic farmers have benefited from this national programme. It is possible to criticise why no more can be done, but it must also be recognised that there has never been, and there is no such amount of assistance for agricultural sector operators in the area at present. In short, I would like to mention that the smaller steps in the VAT reduction have now become the usual players in the budget, and while the most recent ones have served to whiten the pig and cattle sector, from 2016 there is a realistic chance that the reduction of the VAT on pigmeat will also be reflected in consumer prices, which could have a positive effect on further consumption. Agricultural marketing is an important area for me, where, in comparison with the data of the last few years, there is an effort to maintain it. Every other year, the cost of hosting the OMÉK will appear on the line - last year we created the background of the fair with an amendment - and apart from that, we have enough money to maintain the agricultural marketing activity. Our repeated request for a long time has been that, together with the agricultural marketing target and the financial background, the management of the specific activity can be returned to the Ministry of Agriculture's chapter and competence, because it is generally considered that under the leadership of the former Ministry of Rural Development it worked much better than at present: the promotion of agricultural products was more spectacular and efficient. Of course, make no mistake, the difference is not necessarily due to the financial background or the performance of the staff, but rather to the fact that the current interministerial and multiplely subordinate placement makes it difficult, slows the operation of the Agricultural Marketing Centre, and makes it more difficult for the institution to operate in the complex structure. I am mentioning this now because at this time, when the budget is negotiated, it becomes visible again and again how far the activity closely linked to agriculture has come from the truly competent ministry. In any case, I hope that the amount allocated for 2016 will be used effectively for the purposes of agricultural marketing, and I hope that the overstructured situation of the AMC can be simplified, as requested. Ladies and gentlemen, If last year we could say that in 2015 agriculture became one of the winners of the budget, then again this year we can conclude that the sector's budgetary background has stabilised in this good position. The budget for the tax reduction is also the budget for strengthening and stabilising the agricultural sector. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-122	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr István Apáti, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-05-28-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about a number of issues, the first is the question of the VAT rate of 5%, the reduction of the VAT content of basic foodstuffs to 5%. In fact, the Socialist Party has also submitted several times, and we have been trying to do this ever since 2012. I would like to point out that the budgetary impact is between HUF 70 and HUF 200 billion, depending on whether we interpret it narrowly or broadly, we tighten the basic food range narrowly or widely. Even with a product definition of HUF 70 billion, we could provide substantial assistance to the population. It is true that there is obviously a need to ensure that trade does not swallow it, so it should not stay there, and it must also appear in consumer prices, because if it does not appear in consumer prices, we have given that certain more than one slap and we have not advanced. However, if state control were as strong as in other areas - I am thinking here of the NAV's not very beneficial activity in many cases - then perhaps these problems could be bridged as well. I would just add that in 2009 the Minister of State Tállai, Minister Szijjártó and several Fidesz Members signed the reduction to 5 percent of basic food, then they considered it an excellent idea from opposition; somehow, when we got to government, we ran out of momentum, and then, interestingly, it was not so important to them. I would like to briefly address the unblessed conditions of the local governments, the Hungarian municipal system, and, to put it mildly, the position of the razor-edged people. It is true that you always say that the Hungarian municipalities were freed from a debt of about HUF 1100 billion or a large part of it, together with no liability, since the 100 largest settlements accumulated 90 percent of this 1100 billion, the remaining 10 percent were shared by the medium-sized or smaller settlements; Debrecen with a debt of over 20 billion, but I could mention the former municipality of Minister Lázár, the Hódmezővásárhely he led earlier, which is also the top five or top ten with an amazing amount of debt compared to his size. On the one hand, there was no accountability and, on the other hand, the municipalities which managed responsibly did not actually favour them by providing normative aid or benefits under a tendering scheme. [[15.30]] A ministerial decree was born on this, but practically the practical functioning of this is nearing zero. Let me point out two facts: they said that the municipal debt had been settled in this way, but they forgot to add that the residual portion of personal income tax had been reduced, which is at least this large, if not a larger cut, to reduce the remaining part of the motor vehicle tax from 100 to 40 percent. So 60 percent of the vehicle tax was hijacked. As with all governments of the last 25 years, sly tactics are applied that they no longer dare to burden the population with a central tax in this way, but the municipalities are placed in a position to impose different types of tax with a municipal tax, called municipal tax, because of the significant reduction of the remaining part of the vehicle tax. And as the Magos, but the Magos, everything comes to mind today, it is clear from the TÖOSZ survey that at the moment 14-15 settlements have introduced it, but at least 1,600 settlements are planning to introduce it, and there are even surveys that will put the number of settlements to 2700, where in the next three or four years they will be able to introduce the land tax in virtually the municipal name. Because most often, it's the easiest to tax. In many cases, according to the municipalities, the only taxable assets are land and roads. Unfortunately, there are some bad experiences in Hajdú-Bihar county, such as Mikepércs, Balmazújváros and Hajdúhadház. Personally, I was on Mikepércs personally, and there was 10 thousand forints/hectare/year on the first run. Now they want to turn the system into a lane, they don't want to tax it up to 8 hectares, they also determine it at a rate of 10 thousand forints/hectare/year. Now it doesn't matter whether it's a central tax, local tax, municipal tax, or what it's called, otherwise there's a system where - such as Balmazújváros or Hajdúhadház - it's a golden crown, with the exception of water and swamp cultivation, all branches of cultivation are taxed, even reeds, please. Well, that's pretty amazing. Put your hands on your hearts: I often refer to the fact that if the socialist governments had done this, you would have made such a mess out of it, of course, with all due respect. It's just that it's not appropriate to charge taxes like this, and it's not like that. In addition, they say that the peasantry receives enough support, so pay some of it on a golden crown or a ha. This is an extremely dangerous approach, when the various social groups are turned against each other, the farmer is turned against the non-owner, and when the land tax is set in a lane, a little retreat from the legitimate indignation of farmers, and then practically turn small, medium and large farmers against each other. In many cases personal differences also play a part in this. Just as Mikepércsen doesn't like any of the leaders of the settlement, one of the 280 hectares of farmers, so they're very salty to him, so they're trying to make him impossible. It is just not taken into account that either in Hajdú-Bihar county or in Szabolcs county, but I could list more counties, typically municipalities are the largest employers or farmers. If these farmers are bled out, deboned, destroyed, they will not be able to provide even as many jobs as these good peasants have provided, and we have not even talked about the various elemental plagues. We therefore demand that municipal funding be restored only to an acceptable extent, whether by raising the local part of the tax or by increasing the residual part of the vehicle tax. Bring it to an acceptable level so that municipalities do not need to levy taxes. And I would like to draw the attention of Secretary of State István Nagy to the land tax. With great respect, I ask the Secretary of State to contact these local leaders. We have provided them with the information that, in the case of land leases at the most, a tax could be taxed on the rent, but they, I beg your pardon for the expression, are subject to this general government or ministry order, clear guidance, and are subject to tax everywhere. In any case, I do not consider it acceptable for farmers to tax in a lease scheme. We do not consider this acceptable in any way, but this is a sure step forward, because it is a much narrower circle than the general circle of landowners. I would like to say a few words, because due to the scarcity of the time frame, I must endeavour to address some of the typical problems of my own constituency. I can mention some without the need for completeness. One development that has been promised to the Satmar region for 20 years, and this is the M49 bypass road, the first phase of which, the section between the Győr Guardians, would cost at least HUF 20 billion. If all is true, this will be built by 2030 or who knows when to reach the state border towards Chengersima. Thousands of jobs could be created with this investment, especially the untrained workforce could otherwise be sucked up. Many local entrepreneurs would receive orders, thus significantly improving the use of roads, significantly reducing the load on the current highway and making transport much safer. In addition, large quantities of high-quality food, vegetables and fruits produced in the area would be much easier to transport, it would be easier to turn this very nice but very backward region into the bloodstream of the country and Europe. For 20 years, left-wing governments have been promising it, for 20 years the various Fidesz governments have been promising it, always pushing it, always dragging it. I think the problem is that the individual representative of the respective governing parties does not have the capacity to be of sufficient interest in the interests of the region - unfortunately. There are two other major problems within health care. One of them is the area hospital in Mátészalka and the rescue service - it could be long-lasting. During the previous term, I brought several times before Parliament the health or hospital holding system approved or established by Fidesz at county assembly level in 2006, which was practically more meaningless, with hundreds of millions of dollars in investments in some places, pumping money out of the system. The great leader of the holding, Zoltán K., enjoyed the hospitality of the Hungarian prison execution for a long time, but not long enough. The gentleman, who was a demigod to several politicians of Fidesz, was resting in a preliminary arrest. Then, after a few months, he was released and awaits the final judgment under other coercion measures. Of course, it is possible to smile at that, but the only thing is that if more of you had your children and their relatives cured at the current hospital in Matthew Salka, they would probably not smile so much. Because if you take the trouble to leave, you'll see that you can't close the toilet door around the central lab, the lighting's not good, there's amazing circumstances, there's often no money for cleaning supplies, there's no basic cleaning. There is no money for basic antihypertensives, painkillers, and antipyretics, many times either by staff or by patients or relatives. That's the thing. And I'm not blaming the staff or the doctors at the hospital. They deserve all the respect because they carry this system on their shoulders. Once they get bored and go abroad, I don't know who's gonna cure people in the neighborhood. At least 100 million HUF extra funding would be needed to ensure the most necessary, minimal conditions. We're glad they're developing the hospital. For now, we're still in the process of tearing down an old historic building, and then we don't know what's gonna happen. Last but not least, I would like to address the situation of the rescue service. Here, too, it would take at least one additional HUF 100 million to ensure the basic conditions. Plus, this neighborhood, because we're talking about a 140-150 thousand supply area, please, it really deserves a premature rescue and a much more modern obstetric care. I very much hope that you can support at least some of these amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-124	Thank you very much. State Secretary Zsolt Szabó asked for the floor on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As I listened to the debate here, I thought that the budget, which is a completely objective element, is based on pure mathematics and numbers, two sides of the scale with two pans, how to mix so many subjective elements, so-called political elements. I mean, they're not compatible, and they're completely contradicting each other. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] What I have in mind, and if I may, I'll tell you this, there are two basic thoughts. One is constructive thinking, when I say that I create something, how, how, and the other, who destroys, and who tells us to spend the money that doesn't exist. Let's not forget, and another subjective thought, if you're allowed to do the whole thing that our grandparents taught us. One thing is to take me off the table when you put me down there. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The other thing is to stretch out until your blanket reaches, otherwise we will end up, for example, in 2004, when we ran out of money here, and despite the exchange of prime ministers, we have failed to rebuild the system. Now we have a budget ahead of us, which may answer everything, and if we are allowed to think together, and if we are allowed to say to my fellow Members an agricultural idea: we all remember when there was a crisis of overproduction of corn in 2005-2006. [[15.40]] So-called intervention warehouses or public warehouses have been created, which many people have abused, and things have gone back on. We don't want to do that again, I think, because this system doesn't work right. The other thing is, let me give you a thought about the sugar industry, when we got farmers to sell it because you're getting good money for your sugar quota, for your beet production quota. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Who bought it?]] Who bought it? Germans! You've got to look at it. The sugar quota has gone completely abroad. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Let's stay in the business.]] The third thing. This was a few years ago: do we remember when in the 2006-2007-2008 we gave agricultural subsidies for grape slaughter? What do we have now? Grape-planting subsidies! We have to go through all our large wine-growing areas, how much the wine-growing area is growing and how much quality change there is. We're talking about the milk quota here. [[Interventions from the lines of the MSZP: It is included in the 2016 budget, Mr Secretary of State!]] But we don't talk about where the dog really is buried professionally. Remember, by the end of the eighties, when we preferred to change stocks and replace old, high-quality milk-producing stocks with a large mass-producing stock producing large quantities of milk? We remember these things, don't we? It's a little worth arguing about and putting together. One thing's for sure. [[You're welcome, Mr. Secretary.]] One thing is certain: let's look at the agricultural aspect of the budget. In the last ten years, which investment has increased value both in assets and in operations that have been lastingly profitable? I'll tell you! Agriculture! The value of the production areas - you have to see where the land is. There's no reason to argue about it. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: But who has it, Mr. Secretary of State?!]] The other is income. The ability to generate income in agriculture is perhaps the most enhanced. The stadium question is often raised. I always wonder why someone doesn't say we should build a stadium and this, this, this, this. That's the positive thinking I'm talking about. [[Interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: Don't build a stadium, Mr. Secretary. Stop it! How many more do you want to build?]] That's what the budget should be about, and I think that's what it's about. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Oh, my God, stop building stadiums! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not just about building a stadium. I am pleased that my fellow Members are thinking with me. I am very happy about this, because that is the point of the debate, and perhaps that is what is driving me forward. The other is the municipalities. Mr Abbot has raised some points. I see 38 settlements. I can tell you in which settlement in the last four years, how many new buildings have been built, supposedly, when the financial situation of the municipalities has deteriorated. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I will tell you which municipality has received not only the debt relief, but also how much support it has received, because there is a way, and I can also tell you how many settlements have been deemed bankrupt, because I do not know such things. Let us not forget, Congressman, in one of the pans of the balance sheet, we say that some municipalities are levying taxes. Of course, the mayor who wants to run ahead wants to make more money in order to improve, it's important to him that his settlement improves. That's what he's trying to collect money for. The other thing is to say that personal income tax, car tax, and so on and so forth have been taken on the revenue side. Add on the other side, and this is different for all settlements: what was taken away from the release page? Let us count these things - this is different in each settlement - and let us see what this meant in that settlement! The principle of individual assessment, as it is legally said. I ask that we examine the question in this way and look at it. And if I may, the budget must answer only one question that people understand: what developments will be and what we can do for Hungarian families. If we can think together on these issues, and we get proposals in the budget that we can discuss, I have raised this on a number of professional occasions, and I am very happy to debate all these issues, if we get a positive and constructive answer to such questions, then that budget is in place. If I may, some specifics that carry this idea, to reflect that I am not only saying it, but also thinking what I am saying: what can we do for Hungarian families? The 2016 budget strengthens the continuation of the program "Home Gay" programme. Energyally, many Hungarian families can renovate their own real estate, where they should now pay huge money for energy. Let us not forget, it is easy to say that all this comes from European Union funds. Yes, but there is a Hungarian part of this which is produced by the Hungarian budget [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Have you read the budget, Mr. Secretary of State?]] creates it. Local government tender money, self-esteem. Has anyone ever heard of a municipality not being able to make an investment without self-esteem? [[Intercoms from the MSZP: Hiyay!]] There's a big problem. There's a big problem. My request is to look at the possibility in the budget that municipalities that are supposed to be financially bled out and that the principle of individual evaluation could not be implemented: they were able to implement it. We do not talk about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, what we can do for them. There are over a thousand billion forints in the Széchenyi card program alone. Do you know that not only is the loan programme going for working capital financing, operation, but also investment? Do you know how many businesses there are that can operate with interest rate subsidies? [[Intervention from the lines of the MSZP: The economy doesn't work, they don't dare take credit!]] The other thing that is often brought up and attacked on the subject of the SME sector is called online cash registers. Interestingly, the business that I say specifically is a market venture, which has so far declared a thousand forints a day, how can it now represent 500 thousand forints a day? Is that legal? I think that the online cash register is legal, and that's why we disagree when we talk about personal income tax or VAT. That's exactly the basis of the thought. The second is the provision of care to the general public in the fields of waste water, waste and water quality improvement at all. Let's not forget that the scissors that were opened earlier are disappearing. Let us not forget that care for the population in any rural settlements is slowly reaching the same level as in any major city. This creates the possibility of living in the countryside. When you bring up the importance of agricultural land, it's precisely so that as many people as possible can live in the countryside and as few people as possible move into the city. If we look at this budget overall, all in all, in its numbers, it can be said that it is much better than it was a few years ago, but obviously there is still room for improvement. That's why I'm asking you to start my idea of building together. Tell us what to do, but do what to do from what source, what to do. [[Interpreting: This is what we submitted in amendment!]] Don't tell me we're creating a gap because someone's poor. I've told you this, my grandmother's pension is 55,000 forints, she's not poor, that's what she said, so I'll give it to you. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Helper of the Secretary of State!]] Don't tell me someone's poor and we're hitting them. Instead of creating this gap, they are trying to build the budget with positive proposals on how to go forward. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Not you! Not you, because you've been on the government before, and you've tried to do that. [[Interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: You will get this in opposition!]] My request is for any other opposition team, some other opposition team, to suggest that this line goes further. With all of this in mind, my request to you is that this budget may not be a perfect budget, but I think it will lead me forward and build, so I ask you to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-28-126	It's a two-minute lap to keep the mood going. [[Defiance.]] Congressman Zoltán Haughty, please.
u2015-05-28-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm so sorry that my colleague Pócs left. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: He'll be back!]] 'Cause what I'm trying to say is that they're looking forward to seeing Derkék -- I just talked to them -- but I want you to take a wreath with you right away, because the first dead man there is the dirt dog. A poor old man couldn't stand the fact that his sheep were taken two months ago. He had a stroke, and the day before yesterday, he died. So when you're smart with me about who I'm lobbying for, I have no idea who the contractor you're talking about is, but I'm gonna go to Wrinkle and Derecke and Berettyó's new village, and I'm gonna tell you I'm gonna set you up with those farmers. You better talk to István Vitányi in front of him about what they were doing in that area and then try to teach me! Mr. Secretary, I think everyone should stay in their own business. Where and for what we replaced the herd of cows in the late eighties was a sound professional decision. You shouldn't get into that after 25 years. Do you know how much milk we produced in Hungary? Five times as much as you are now! [[Zsolt Szabó: I know.]] So I'm gonna take care of that, and I don't want to get into their business, or anyone else's business, but then I'm gonna ask you not to do it, because this is just gonna be an open-and-shut argument. [[15.50]] I would like to say to the Secretary of State when he says that our VAT proposal is unprotected: it is not true. The 120 billion forints reduction, plus the pig's VAT is 145 billion forints. Of these two thirds, poultry, milk, pigs, eggs, bread, vegetables, fruit and freshwater fish could be made. No more, that much, because these are Hungarian products, because there wouldn't be bananas and oranges in fruit and vegetables. There it is, it's been filed six times with precision. I can't believe he doesn't have cover. He's got cover. If there's funding for the 120 billion-dollar reduction, let's cover the 120 billion-dollar VAT reduction, because it leaves money for people, not for cuts, and they can't steal that amount of VAT if they do it at the same time, because it's 20 percentage points, or 19 points, after all, if you count down, you can't steal it. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-28-128	We will return to the list of speakers that have been announced. Congressman Roland Mengyi is the next speaker, Fidesz. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Another dirt dog!]] Here.
u2015-05-28-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to talk about the relationship between the 2016 budget and the strengthening of the competitiveness of domestic businesses, but Mr Gögös's ordinary speech raised a question, because he said that the current exchange rate of the forint means that economic policy is bad and the fundamentals of the Hungarian economy are weak and bad, because we have to see how much the exchange rate of the forint was now. With due respect, I would like to draw attention to another factor, and this is the effects and actors of the global financial markets. [[Anita Herring: This is when you say it!]] They need to know that in recent years the currency of every general emerging market has been under a uniform and uniform pressure, so that the forint was no exception. The situation of this Ukrainian military, war situation and the subsequent, prolonged, huge economy on the verge of collapse and crisis has not helped, and of course, we are also looking at global players, for example, an impromptu or well-planned decision by a Swiss central bank does not always help the exchange rate of such a small country's currency. But to move further in: if, say, the Chinese central bank decides that the yuan is too strong and therefore starts buying dollars, it will shake the currencies of the developing markets so that they can start to unbelievable, several percent increase and/or fall, and this cannot be calculated or repaired with economic policy at the same speed. [[Anita Herring: Really?]] To tell you the last five months, the euro exchange rate has moved more than 10 percent there and back in five months. You do not think in this room that in five months the fundamental macro numbers of the Hungarian economy have changed so much, the fundamentals have changed so much. No, my fellow Members, the fundamentals of the Hungarian economy are all right, as they know that they know the employment figures, they know that for the third year we have been able to keep the budget below 3 per cent, which has never been successful once in 2002-10, and there was even a 9.4 per cent during socialist governance. Employment has increased by more than 400 000 people, now over 4.1 million. Economic growth is 3.4 percent, although next year's budget plans are 2.5 percent; GDP decline was -6.5 percent in 2009. Well, as I said, the foundations of the Hungarian economy are fine. If it were up to this, the rate of the forint would have stood between 2002-10, not only would it have been 250 forints, but it would have run to the unpredictable starry sky. Dear Parliament, Back to strengthening the competitiveness of domestic businesses and the measure, the business development measure I would like to talk about. With regard to investments, we can say that after the outstanding results of last year, investments are expected to continue to grow again this year, with credit programmes supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and a favourable return environment.In 2014, investments in the national economy increased by 14 percent and amounted to HUF 5216 billion. Investments in the largest weight manufacturing industry increased by 12.7%. As in recent years, external trade has increased significantly in 2014, exports have increased by 7.1 percent, while imports have increased by 8.8 percent compared to 2013. The foreign trade balance shows a HUF 1977 billion surplus in 2014 following a slight increase. The growth credit programme of the central bank and the further efficient use of EU funds also contribute to increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, resulting in an increasing proportion of Hungarian products and services being available on foreign markets. Dear Parliament, But we need to be able to transfer macroeconomic results to the world of businesses, and there is also a great and important business development measure. Growth tax credits will be introduced as a novelty in the area of corporate taxation in order to support enterprises that have achieved economic success, wish to develop, invest and create additional jobs. Businesses that dynamically increase their pre-tax results from one year to the next may postpone the payment of the tax, leaving them with more resources to expand their activities. Of course, the corporate tax liability of companies using growth tax credits does not change, as they only delay the timing of their payments to the budget. The point of the discount is that, for the part of the pre-tax profit above the pre-tax profit of the preceding tax year, the tax is to be paid in a quarterly schedule over the next two tax years. The growth tax credit provides financial assistance to the most dynamically emerging companies operating legally, since the corporate tax that should be paid to the budget in the year of growth is left at the company's and will only be paid in small instalments later. In this way, growing businesses can continue to grow, paying taxes will not discourage their development, job expansion, further expansion and growth. This measure is important, since it promotes the competitiveness of investors and growing companies, not only at home, but also in a regional or European environment, as it provides a tax option that adapts or adapts to the life cycle of businesses and significantly improves the liquidity situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to qualify for the benefit, the following conditions must be met. The taxpayer has been operating for over three years. The taxpayer did not participate in any transformation in the tax year and in the three preceding tax years. The taxpayer's pre-tax profit is five times the pre-tax profit of the preceding tax year, and they declare, of course, that they wish to make use of it in advance. Growth tax credit aims to recognise and support growth in real market competition. Dear Parliament, Preventive research and screening have been carried out by dominant economic advisory firms and, based on their results, the following are estimated today. More than HUF 20 billion could be added to the Hungarian economy in connection with this measure. More than 18,000 domestic companies will benefit from this tax relief - attention! 85 percent of the turnover is less than HUF 100 million. The companies concerned have increased their revenue more than eight times over the last year on the basis of screening and their total tax payments have increased tenfold. [[16.00]] At the same time, the scope of the companies concerned may be increased by the fact that the measure will lead many to decide to show in their books their profits transferred by tax optimisation, which will partly increase the revenue from the budget and partly contribute to the whitening of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, a shift started in the Hungarian economy, not only our macro numbers improved, but we also started towards a healthier and more balanced economic and growth structure, and this result, this change, has become permanent in recent years. The performance of the Hungarian economy in 2014 was significantly higher than the preliminary expectations, and it was also one of the highest in the European Union. The projected economic path will continue to forecast stable, predictable, balanced economic growth in the following year, so that the population's declining forint and foreign exchange debt will also contribute to the recovery of demand and to the further expansion of employment, which can be accompanied by the gradual, continuous strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Teleki is next, MSZP. Here.
u2015-05-28-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is very difficult to talk about what I should say to the budget or when I should be expressing my reaction to what they have said in front of me. I think there is only one sure, a lot of people see this 2016 budget chapter, a draft law with paper and written letters, not the people behind them. There are a lot of questions that certainly raise the question of whether the current government is serious today, whether it will further expand the population of the poor, that it will reduce equal opportunities for education, that we will not see any sources of prevention and prevention in healthcare that could represent an increase and could be classified. But I think that the most important and perhaps one of the most important elements of the budget is how they want to deal with the employment situation. What I see today is that they want to do the same thing they have done in the past, that it is better for young people to go abroad to work, and that there is no force in the budget that we can see before us. This is interesting, because if you think responsibly, you should see and show the young Hungarians that there is an opportunity for them to work here, show them European wages and jobs with which they can stay. This budget isn't about that. This budget is about leaving, young people, and try your luck elsewhere, not in Hungary, because there is no perspective in front of you. As a result, I think that the decline in the employment sector - there is an increase in the wages of the public workers in one single item, which I say again, perhaps I have already said, is an important phenomenon of adding extra resources to public employment, which I think is a good thing. But we do not see any funds for moving forward that would show that they could provide young people with either small and medium-sized enterprises or other opportunities. Therefore, I say what I say, that it is impossible for young people to see how predictable and predictable it is for them to stay at home. I therefore think that the government should consider whether it wants to offer young people an alternative in the area of employment. But the same is true, by the way, if you think about it, also in the civilian sector. There we can see... - and I said perhaps a few days ago here, in the walls of Parliament, that yes, you can reach back, you can last eight years, you can reach back for the past period, but then we spent more than HUF 7 billion, almost HUF 8.5 billion, for example, in 2008 to support civilians, and of which there was only HUF 7.7 billion in the Civil Fund. I would also like to make this clear... - and now there is, in contrast, HUF 4.6 to 4.8 billion, when you often say how much progress this country is making, but for civilians there is much less. But the biggest problem is that if we look at the lines here, we see that it means a stagnating budget for public foundations, such as autists, which does not mean a HUF plus for autists, and we do not see that they will receive one forint for the amount that was this year. So they'll get the same money in 2016, but the same is true for the National Dance Theatre. There, too, is not a stagnation, but a decrease is a measure. So from this point forward, I think that you can see clearly that there are papers and written letters and numbers in this country, but you can't see the people behind it, and you don't want to see that there are people behind all the lines and groups of people. And if I go further in the list of organisations and foundations, then I miss what I have missed here, too, in many of my speeches, that, for example, the Public Foundation for Gypsies in Hungary was abolished by a stroke of a pen in 2011, and they said that this was not necessary, because there is a structure where public foundations are not needed, and so in the budget, that there are several public foundations, but that which has made the funds for Roma education transparent, which has made it transparent to help Roma housing or to support small and medium-sized enterprises, that has been abolished by a stroke, and I do not see in this budget that it is included. I am sad, too, because if you say that the Roma issue is important... - and you say here whether Prime Minister Viktor Orbán or Flórian Farkas, who is not in the Chamber again, as a Prime Minister's representative, who I think should evaluate the budget, even if he is a pro-government Member, how he sees whether this will be good for the Roma in Hungary, will ensure equal opportunities for the Roma in Hungary. It is important to hear him and to see what he has to say on this matter. Unfortunately, we are not going to know, but we are going to turn back to the idea that they have signed a European framework strategy, in which they have put financials and visualised hundreds of thousands of Roma jobs, we do not see any of them, and we do not see that this has otherwise moved forward. I would ask what is in the budget with this question, because we do not see that there is a single forint in that programme. We know that EU funds have been opened and that there are 5 billion different press organisations, but we do not see what that will be about or how the Roma will have more opportunities in the employment system. From this I think that Flórian Farkas should have said something to the budget, because he would like to see the Roma society in Hungary. But I think that this is not a Roma issue, it is a national, it is a social issue, so it would be important for everyone. I'd like to move on, but in support of public foundations, we have to ask one more question. In the two thousand years, it was possible to see that Roma culture professionals were in it, for example the 100 Gypsy Orchestra, the Rajkó Orchestra, the Kalyi Jag Ensemble, they were in the support lines, and today there is only one Roma artist group in these support lines that we can see in the budget. My question is, why? Aren't the bands, the 100-member Gypsy Orchestra, part of the Hungarian culture, who is unbeatable in world news because they know it all over the world, and it enhances Hungary's reputation everywhere? I think he deserves a separate line, in a separate chapter, the same as any other band. I think that this too may be important for us to move on. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The other, which is my biggest heartache, by the way, is to think about it... - I mentioned a few words in employment about public foundations, civilians, but in the case of housing, I have to stop for a moment and say it's outrageous. We say that I would go back, not to the European, but to the national Roma strategy, that you took the elimination of the Gypsy settlements seriously in 2011-12, and today we do not see a forint in the budget that we see before us, and we have turned the page, and we have not found it. So what kind of integration do you want if you've given up more than 100,000, 110-120 thousand people? Because the people who live in the gypsy settlements in the slums are about 100 to 110,000 people. They've been given up on health, employment and education. So I think that in this matter, if you want to do something, you need to act as soon as possible and the budget for 2016 should be amended now in order to make this visible, because if you don't, then, once again, you have given up a social class that should otherwise be embraced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[16.10]]
u2015-05-28-132	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicated his wish to speak to him. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Teleki suggested that behind the numbers, behind the papers, people are not visible. I think that the government is pursuing an economic policy whose results, the positive results, must be seen not only by macroeconomic analysts but also by people of everyday life. In addition to the fact that macroeconomic analysts recognise the results in Hungary and in the international arena, which Eurostat statistics indicate, both in terms of public debt and general government deficits, employment, growth and the current balance of payments, and beyond that, this economic policy, I think it makes the results feel in everyday life. Let me give you some data. Real wages have been growing for over 20 months. As a result, retail sales are growing radically. Why? Because there's more money than people, they know how to buy. There's been a lot of talk about the family discount. One of the fundamental steps of the government after 2010 was to put the parents who took the family into position, as a result of which the family tax relief system was introduced, which we can see another step in the 2016 budget bill ahead. More than HUF 200 billion is the amount that can remain with families. Everyone who has children knows what that means. Everyone who has children sees this extra discount on their payment card. [[Anita Herring: If there's anything to it!]] The budget bill before us affects more than 4 million workers, which has been said many times, through a reduction in the budget bill. People need to see this. [[Imre Horváth: Feel it!]] In terms of employment data, more than 400 thousand people are working in Hungary today than five years ago. The number of people employed in public employment is around 200,000, so if you compare the 400,000 with the number of 200,000, then you can see that there are jobs created in the competitive sector. Take a look at the latest statistics, please. [[Anita Beringes: Unemployment has increased!]] and these also support the fact that the latest expansion has been achieved in the sphere of competition. So I think that all those people who can work now and couldn't before, those who have taken on a child and thus increased their net income, those who are able to obtain more resources in the context of the reduction of personal income tax, those who have been able to enter the exchange rate barrier system, and those who are now free from foreign exchange credit, or those who pay their daily bills and see a smaller amount, I think that they are aware of the outcome of this economic policy. [[Anita Heringes: Yes, and you also saved the FX loaners!]] Let me also mention that the first sentence of the 2014 budget justification was conceived in this spirit, which says that the budget is about how much money people have left. So I think that, yes, this economic policy, in addition to producing positive macroeconomic numbers, puts its focus on people, on families. Finally, allow me to comment on a number of the comments made by Mr István Apáti, as regards municipal funding and municipal systems. I agree with Mr President and all the speakers in that, and it may be odd that I say this as a person responsible for public finances, that there is no perfect budget, because there is more resources to be provided in all areas, or that all taxes could be reduced. The question is whether this can be done responsibly by a given government, a given parliament. This is also true of the municipalities. And if some municipalities say that there is a need for additional resources, I can understand this in many cases, but yet I can see from the collusive figures that the transformation of the municipal system that the government and the Parliament have made is successful in this area as well. Why do I say that? Because if I look at the combined balance sheet of the municipalities, I see that before 2010 the municipalities were typically in deep debt [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And who took that loan, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Not only did their debt increase year after year, but their annual financial balance also typically showed a very serious deficit. This annual deficit was around HUF 160 billion in 2006 and HUF 232 billion in 2010. There was then a system transformation, one of which was mentioned by Mr Apáti, as regards the debt transfer. He also mentioned another element of the transformation of the tax system for motor vehicles, but I think it is worth looking at complexly what has happened in the transformation of the municipal system. The tasks have been reorganised, the financing system has been reorganised in line with the tasks, and the debt has been taken over accordingly, and what is very important, a new set of rules has been created that has prevented the municipalities from being re-indebted. The result of this is that, in recent years, every year from 2011, the municipal subsystem has closed with a significant surplus, and I stress that it has not closed with deficit and a significant surplus. As regards the municipalities that have not benefited from debt consolidation, I believe that the former debt is partly due to irresponsible management in place and, indeed, to a significant extent, to the fact that the municipal funding system has basically carried on the lack of resources. Therefore, when the government and the Parliament decided to reform the system, they did not decide to sanction previously indebted municipalities, but to impose additional resources on municipalities without debt. The government did this in 2014 and also in 2015 and the 2016 budget bill before the Honourable Parliament also provides HUF 12.5 billion in additional support to the non-debt consolidation municipalities. I therefore believe that the bill can be supported with a calm heart in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-134	I now give the floor to Congressman József Kovács, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, The government will continue to pursue its policy launched in 2010, including the development of health care. Since 2010, health has been gradually trying to get back on its feet, which has been supported and helped by wage increases, debt settlement - the latest debt settlement is expected today - and the biggest development since the change of regime, which we are behind between 2007 and 2013, which has been going through a period of transition for 2015. Healthcare workers were the first to have a wage increase programme launched by the government in the previous cycle, as well as a scholarship programme to prevent the emigration of doctors and health workers, as well as to replace health shortages. The budget for the health sector in 2015 amounted to 1.8 billion HUF, including the increase in revenues from the E-Fund by healthcare institutions. The government will continue to develop health in 2016. With the adoption of the 2016 budget bill, more resources will be available in healthcare next year than this year. The strategic priorities of the health sector were formulated in the Healthcare Sectoral Strategy adopted by the Government in February 2015 - Healthy Hungary 2014-2020. The period 2010-14 was essentially what corrected the distortions caused by the careless activities of the former government. Here, it is essential to highlight 2006 as regards the start of distortions. Fidesz-KDNP and the current government have answered the most pressing questions, and despite the international crisis, they have done everything they can to improve hospital infrastructure and increase the salaries of health workers. We clearly see and need to see that there is no well-functioning healthcare without Hungarian doctors and health workers. [[16.20]] The government is therefore moving step by step on the path that will lead to a stable, predictable career for doctors and professionals alike. The fundamental objective of the period of the Health Sector Strategy 2014-2020 is to strengthen and structurally adapt the infrastructure background of health and to enable the public health service system to respond to today's most important public health challenges. For the 2014-2020 development cycle, a vision has been developed to clarify the direction of the renewal of the health system for society and the sector. The aim is to improve the state of health of Hungarian citizens, to increase their life years in health, to increase the individual and social value of physical, mental health, to promote health-conscious behaviour and to reduce territorial inequalities. All government decisions and changes need to be made in accordance with priorities set from a public health point of view. With this in mind and in line with the above, the government will continue to develop health in 2016, with more resources available in the health sector next year if the 2016 budget bill is adopted. As in previous years, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2016 provides for a balance between the total amount on the revenue and expenditure side. The total revenue and expenditure allocated to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2016 are both HUF 1963.7 billion and the health budget is planned to be in balance. The main amounts show an increase of around 2.8 per cent compared to the 2015 statutory appropriations. At the beginning of the previous government period, the E-Fund budget was around HUF 1500 billion in total, and the current planned budget for 2016 is close - and it is not excluded that it will reach HUF 2000 billion. Every year, the overall budget for health is rising. The Fund's revenue derives predominantly from two sources, but the composition of these revenues varies compared to the previous year. One group is the part of the social contribution tax due to the Health Insurance Fund, as well as contributions and contributions. According to the bill, more than 20 percent of the social contribution tax paid in 2016 is now entitled to the Health Insurance Fund, compared to 14.5 percent in 2015. For this reason, the share of the social contribution tax due to the Health Insurance Fund for 2016 and the employer's health insurance contribution is HUF 521,85 billion, which represents an increase of around 50 percent in the budget in this area. The other revenue group is provided by budgetary contributions. The Fund's revenue also includes other revenue related to health insurance activities. In particular, the three largest appropriations are payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors, public health product tax and accident tax. The planned health contributions of accident tax, public health product tax and tobacco companies for 2016 show an overall increase of around HUF 1 billion compared to the 2015 statutory appropriations. The fund's expenditure of a determining order of magnitude is cash and benefits in kind. The maximum amount of cash benefits shall be the expenditure on invalidity and rehabilitation benefits. In addition, expenditure on baby care and childcare is of significant importance. The largest appropriation for benefits in kind is the curative-preventive care, which contains an amount of HUF 33.7 billion higher than in the previous year, taking into account in particular the renewal and development of the basic supply, which represents HUF 10 billion, to cover the planned wage measures, which are HUF 15.3 billion and HUF 5 billion for the reception of overcapacity in the budget. This article will continue to cover the wage increase of healthcare workers in 2012-13, as well as an appropriation of HUF 53.5 billion compared to the previous year of the preventive provision of care with a surplus of HUF 2004 billion of HUF 12.4 billion. In addition to the above, the health sector will receive an additional HUF 11 billion in 2016, including extension, conversion, purchase of rescue cars, operation of the rescue management system, preparation of the new hospital in Budapest and other measures to improve the quality of life. For correction of the mobile wages of health professionals and doctors, HUF 12.8 billion will be available in the 2016 budget. The calculation of the on-call fee, standby fee, extraordinary work and shift allowance shall be based on the amount in force on 30 June 2012, the amount in the contract of employment or the salary due at that time on the basis of the civil servant's pay table, i.e. these salary elements are not based on the salary increased by the salary increase. The measure will ensure that wage increases in 2012 and 2013 are also the basis for the mobile wage, thereby achieving the full basic wage increase in 2012-13. The budget provides HUF 2.5 billion in funding for young specialists, thus creating the possibility for specialists to receive a similar level of support to the residency grant even after obtaining the exam. It's been decided that the overtime will have to be paid with the next month's salary. The proposed legislation also allows the continuation of the renewal of the basic supply. The second stage of the renewal of the basic supply represents another HUF 10 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a good fact that in recent years we have been able to talk about the introduction of a number of positive measures in the field of health. Health care affects the lives of almost all members of the population, so its reliable functioning is given special attention. In view of the above, it is certainly gratifying that the budget bill before us will help achieve this with a number of positive objectives and measures in the field of health. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-136	State Secretary Peter Hoppál indicated his wish to speak to him. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the 2016 budget debate, a number of issues have been raised by those who have just spoken about the human resources sectors. I am very pleased that our fellow Member, József Kovács, has just been able to explain in detail how the health sector will receive additional resources. Obviously, it is a matter of particular importance to show an improved trend in terms of all indicators of the public health situation, as the issue of our future lies in this sector. At the same time, allow me to refer to you in an approach that, during the period of budget planning, when the industry of human resources discussed with the Ministry of National Economy the draft budget for 2016, the basic position of the negotiation was that the government wanted to follow forward on a base-based basis in 2016. [[16.30]] In other words, at the first glance, the human resources sectors seemed to have to reflect the state of 15 in 16 in terms of funding. I also read a publication that said that the EMMI would actually be one of the losers of the 2016 budget. This has obviously been eliminated by the draft budget law submitted, as it can be seen that many human resources sectors can expand in 2016. Here I would like to look at the very tough and tight task that should be appreciated in your eyes as a procedure in respect of which NGM has set itself the goal for Hungary to move forward in 2016; after the objectives of the second Orbán government, the third Orbán government must now move on with regard to the tax reduction. We can see a very good trend in the 2016 budget, not only by reducing personal income tax, it remains more than households, more than people, so it remains in the wallet from month to month from 1 January 2016, but also the family tax relief - which is also a powerful Fidesz government achievement; this was the form of support for families, which the socialists have abolished, completely emptied, and then in 2010 the Fidesz government re-entered the asset system - further expansion of the family tax relief will mean that the families with two children will again have more money. So not only will more money remain in households through personal income tax, no matter how negatively our socialist fellow Members wag their heads, the facts are stubborn. It's in the budget. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You have to read the analyses! Not ours, but the ones that showed up today.]] Thus, by reducing personal income tax, the government continues its trend [[Anita Bering: To give to the rich.]] We are in the government period for tax reductions, as opposed to the government period for tax increases before 2010. Now, in addition to personal income tax, i.e. the family tax reduction, there is more money left in households and people, and it was very difficult to find a balance between how the individual sectors can enforce their additional needs. Obviously, it is worth considering a simple mathematics or the principle of a home-based plaid booklet that if we cut our spending page, so if we have less income for our household, obviously there will be less money that we can spend. However, this very difficult mathematical task could be solved by the Ministry of National Economy, as while less revenue comes from, say, some taxes, less income comes from personal income tax - at least by going back to 15 per cent, but of course with the extended supervision the budget plans extra revenue - while, well, it can be seen that the budget has been able to mobilise additional resources for health care. I think it's a very good balance. At the same time, let me also briefly respond to the small comments which affected the cultural sector, which were specifically Mr László Teleki, who asked a few points about the support of Roma cultural groups. The question of a separate line, I know, is always a goal in many institutions and in many social organisations, but I think we should look at whether they have access to their operation and the resources they need for their projects to be implemented through state resources. Yes, they have access, so the organizations, institutions that represent the Hungarian culture on a high level, and which are the Hungarian culture... I believe that you have asked this rhetorical question, Mr President, whether Gypsy culture is part of Hungarian culture; I think that those who are sitting in this room are, we believe, yes. Allow me to share with you a very important experience, last night's experience, on which I attended a wonderful gala in Kiev, one of the most prestigious Ukrainian cultural institutions, the Tchaikovsky Academy of Music last night at the Hungarian State People's Ensemble. The title of the gala program is: in Transcarpathia - in Hágók and beyond, and we took it with a special government grant of HUF 40 million to the cities of Ukraine, not only to the Transcarpathians, but also to the settlements of Central Ukraine, especially to the capital. I am very pleased to say to you that in the performance, the 80-minute gala programme, which presented a very rich cultural offer from the co-existence of Transcarpathian peoples, not only Hungarian dances and folk music, not only Ukrainian and Ruthenian dances and folk music, not only Romanian melodies, but indeed Gypsy dances and Gypsy songs, the highest representative of Roma culture appeared in this 80-minute composition. I think that this is also a very good example of the fact that, indeed, high-quality Hungarian ensembles at the highest level in Central Europe do integrate the Roma cultural elements into their programmes, and at the gala show last night, we noticed that the audience applauded the ongoing gala production, and that at the Roma production, a special applause was given to the programme element. So I think we are taking on a high level of representation of the Hungarian-Gypsy culture not only within the borders but also outside the borders, and this is what the fruits of it appear to be. I would like other Central European countries to present Roma culture at such a high level, their own Roma culture in their own country and the world, as we do. [[László Teleki: Thank you.]] I can also say, ladies and gentlemen, that support for Roma culture also appears within a specific framework of support within the State Secretariat for Social Affairs. I'll put two pairs of numbers together. In terms of this year and next year, support for Roma culture is stagnating through the State Secretariat for Social Affairs, so it will be 52-53 million forints in the same year as this year, so it will not decrease. However, as far as the Roma scholarship programme is concerned, we are very confident that many cultural opportunities will be opened up and enriched and increased. Here, I would like to point out very strongly that the government has also committed itself to the availability of HUF 1 billion of HUF 48.9 million in the place of HUF 659.5 million this year, during the period of very tight and rigorous budget planning. So we can say that we are almost doubling this scholarship programme, and cultural opportunities are also increasing. I also stress that the Multifunctional Nationality - Roma Education and Culture Centre has not yet been published in this year's budget, because such a function has not yet worked, but in the next year's budget the NGM has accepted it, and it will appear as a new item with HUF 80 million. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, I myself undertake that if project funding is turned to the National Cultural Fund or its ministerial framework by high-quality artistic groups, which, where appropriate, promote Roma culture within or beyond the borders, then, as has been the case so far, they can continue to count on the government's support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-138	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig of Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to reflections on the health sector, I must say that it is likely that my colleague Kovács and I were not working in the same health system, because the reality reflects much different things than what you have said here in ten minutes. What we need to know, and I agree with what you said, is that they are continuing the health policy of 2010 that Fidesz started in 2010. I would translate that, and I agree that they are pursuing a destructive policy. In 2010, the death penalty called the Semmelweis Plan, which was also the victim of several hospitals, including the Tapolca hospital, which you committed, was justified by the fact that this restructuring would result in an economically more sustainable hospital, an economically sustainable health institution. From data and hospital debt, we can see that this management-related thinking has failed, that the hospital in Tapolca has almost HUF 100 million in debt and that we are talking about a small regional hospital. [[16.40]] With regard to hospitals in Pest, the billionaires are being grazed, so the Semmelweis plan has failed as an economic policy and health and economic policy aspect. I also have concerns about the wage increase for healthcare workers. In 2014, I left the health sector, because I became deputy mayor, I say my salary at the time - net, and counting my four children - HUF 160 thousand after 22 years of work in health care, HUF 160 000, so that I was in a leading position. If we are based on the fact that you want to continue with this economic policy, I would rather say that we should turn it around, so let's not continue, because the consequences we have seen are that health workers are going out on the street. I've been talking to a lot of health workers over the last few weeks, and they can't see the government's intentions that have been said several times at the promised level, either from the Secretary of State or from the Minister's mouth, that the health career model should be introduced to health workers. If we observe the budget, it is 58 billion forints dedicated to the wage arrangement of healthcare workers, and according to the government's communication, it is enough to settle the wages of 43,000 people. You just need to know that we're talking about 65,000 nurses and workers, so you're not aware of the data. If you look at the 2015 and 2016 civil servant pay tables, there is no substantial change. There is no change in on-call allowances, hazard allowances, bedside allowances. I believe that the workers who care for our relatives, our acquaintances, the sick, sick children are the first and greatest recognition for those who settle their wages. It has been said here many times that Sunday's closure is good, because people can spend the weekend with their family members. Health workers are not included in this, so according to the Labour Code, they are entitled to a maximum of one Sunday, but on that Sunday, too, many of them, including me, were forced to go to another hospital or go to the emergency services in a second job so that I could support my four children and educate them. The same is true of other health workers. I would have loved to have attended Mass, as would my fellow KDNPs, but unfortunately, I only got to do it at work, watch it on TV. I believe that the 2016 principles on hospital debt are not included in this draft itself, these debt stocks will be re-produced, as the hbcs funding for benefits does not change if we look at active inpatient care. The provision of tasks is given for each hospital, but the size of the funding involved has not changed. I think that health is an important system that embraces such an important and large area, in which there is a need to invest money, from another place to transfer resources, because strong education and strong health are the basis of a strong nation. In the National Rescue Service chapter, if you will allow me to read some data, because there have been a lot of changes in terms of funding, whether we are looking at a rescue, whether it is the protective school health care, patient transport, rescue, medical care and laboratory procedures, they are working on the same budget as in 2015, so in 2015 there was the same amount of funding, and in 2016. But what we need to know is that the means by which these tests are carried out, whether they are for single use, or if they are other devices with new purchases, the price will increase year after year. These additional funding expenses were not planned at the medical register. At the National Rescue Service, a 2-2.5 billion-dollar item is earmarked for investment, but in the text section, I couldn't find out what it was used for. What I do know is that the construction of the rescue station comes from a TIOP source, if it's done the same way... and again, I can only say Tapolca's case, they've been promising it for ten years, now it might be something. In ten years, there have been two groundbreakings, there have been more changes in the location, and now, though difficult as the castle of Déva, it is difficult, but the rescue station will be built, and it will be what it will be, because, driven by a sudden, hasty idea, the hospital's restructuring took place together, where I would be happy to see you when you come, because your height is no longer up to your expectations, you can't take off a sweater in a dressing room, so it's just about 2 metres away. As regards rescue stations, it is important to know that there are 231 rescue stations nationwide and that the government's goal was to allow a 15-minute patient access in any area of the country, which requires the establishment of 21 new rescue stations. Today there are more than 1100 settlements in Hungary where there is no chance for the people living there, some 1.5 million people to reach them in case of trouble - and that is true - within 15 minutes. I'd like to list a few: Baranya County, the people of Hospital, for example, have to wait 46.5 minutes, the Old Villagers have to wait 36,5 minutes for the ambulance to arrive. These investment in the construction of a rescue station must therefore take place, but it is only a question of when. This was already a promise in 2013, 14 and 15 but not even at the level of implementation. Oh, no, it's already been groundbreaking, so there's already one foundation stone, but that's not enough to build a rescue station. If, on the other hand, this 2.5 billion extra aid is intended for the purchase or replacement of ambulances, then again, this health system is underfunded. We need to know that the purchase of an ambulance is 24 million, and now I'm just talking about an ambulance type B. If we consider and believe you that those 21 rescue stations will be built, this money will not be enough. And you also know that you are aware of it, but you are not telling us that the fleet currently in the National Rescue Service has been demoted. At each rescue station with an Ambulance, Kim, a high-speed ambulance or a sick car, those vehicles ran nearly 300 to 400 thousand kilometers, often extending their driving time illegally to these cars, and it is to be added that they are 3 vehicles, i.e. three or four years old. They should be replaced at the same time, and their running time, their depreciation should be monitored continuously, and the National Rescue Service would not be in such a bad position that if an ambulance falls out of Veszprém, a reserve should be set from Budapest, because the National Rescue Service does not have a spare ambulance at regional level, or, if it does, once again, it is so drained that it is almost useless. I do not wish any of my fellow Members to travel in such a vehicle, or in an ambulance carrying a spinal injury or a spinal injury on such roads, because it is unbearable. This is not part of the European Union, but rather the Balkans is reflected in today's health system. Thank you so much for listening. I had more to say, but I don't want to take the floor from the Jobbik faction, so thank you again. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-140	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicated his intention to comment. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond in a sentence or two to the suggestions made by Congressman Lajos Rig. I think that it is possible to agree with the Member that we have a number of tasks ahead of us, not only in the area of health, but also in other areas. The government is working on these tasks. Let me give you a few thoughts on three items that the Member mentioned. One is the question of wage increases, and here, let me share my personal experience with you. After 2010, I myself have heard from various international organisations several times the recipe that the budgetary problems in front of the country should be solved by reducing public sector workers' wages. We have seen that several countries in Europe have chosen this path, in the majority of the Member States of the European Union, either a significant reduction in numbers or wages, or together. [[16.50]] The government did not listen to these advice, but took steps along its own economic policy line, and indeed, health was the first area where such a wage increase took place, as Mr József Kovács mentioned. I am sure that those working in the health sector deserve more resources on the basis of their work, the question is how much can be guaranteed responsibly. The path that started with the transformation of the tax system and the increase in gross wages from 2012 onwards will continue in 2016. Therefore, I would like to mention once again that the budget for 2016 contains more than HUF 15 billion for the aforementioned release of mobile wages and the wages of specialists under the age of 35. This affects 64-65 thousand people from 2016; and, of course, personal income tax reductions will certainly have a positive impact on them as well. The second item concerns the financing of the institutional system. Here I would just remind the honourable Parliament that the government has decided to use the debt consolidation aid available in this year's budget for HUF 60 billion in full to reduce the debt of the health institution system. I have to say, in terms of scale, that this is substantially more than the revenue of public health product tax or insurance tax appearing in the E-Fund, and it is a plus for health care. So in this area, too, I think that, in addition to wages, the government can make one move forward. The third thing about the situation at the rescue stations, the investments, and the purchase of ambulances. Many rescue stations will be renewed from the sources of the 2007-13 European Union Development Cycle, as you said, and the government is working to complete these investments at the end of this year, thus improving the supply system using maximum EU funding. As far as next year's budget is concerned, it includes a surplus of HUF 2 billion for the purpose and renewal of the plan and the rescue management system. I therefore agree with Mr President that we also have tasks in the field of health, and I see that in 2016 we will be able to go ahead with at least a partial solution and substantial solutions from the tasks or problems ahead of us, if next year's budget bill is adopted by the honourable Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-142	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. In this context, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-05-28-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I'd like to read you some data. Overall, the tax reform between 2010 and 13 reduced the revenue of the State by HUF 444 billion per year. 74 percent of the amount increased the net income of childless citizens of the two highest income tenths. Out of HUF 444 billion, HUF 329 billion was spent on families with no children, and the remaining HUF 115 billion was spent on families with children. The extension of the family tax relief represents a tax supplement of HUF 173 billion, of which 59 percent reduces the two tenths of the highest income tax. Maybe you think it's okay, and that's why we're saying it's a perverted redistribution. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: More than families.]] Let me tell you something else. It is said that in 2016, HUF 145 billion will remain with the Hungarian families again. In the meantime, a HUF 179 billion of VAT revenue plus revenue was planned here, and 39 billion for excise duty revenues. This total is 218 billion. Then decide whether to give or lose, because the two are not balanced. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: We give more than...]] Of course, they can spend 218 billion forints out of 145 billion forints! Math isn't right, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-05-28-144	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There were two specific points that I think it is appropriate to clarify, and the Congresswoman has asked us to clarify the direction in which the government is going. I would respectfully ask that the Hungarian Socialist Party also clarify within the group what criticisms it expresses, because in the last debate I heard from several of their representatives that the so-called tax wedge is still high and too high on the basis of OECD statistics. What's this about? The tax wedge shows the difference between taxes on all work and net income received. You're the ones who suggested that we move forward here. The transformation of the personal income tax system will go in this direction, both in terms of key reductions and in terms of the expansion of the discount system. [[Anita Heringes: And the high earners... what did you not understand, Mr. Secretary?]] As regards the effects of the measure, let me quote not government analyses, but money market analyses, according to which this measure has made a significant contribution to increasing employment in the competitive sector, precisely to increase incentives to work. As a matter of fact, math is either okay or not okay. The government's philosophy after 2010 was to take steps to reduce the tax burden on labour, which helps to increase employment. These tax measures themselves have affected this direction, but so-called job demand and job supply measures have also aimed at increasing employment. This may have resulted in, for example, that if we look at the incomes of the social contribution tax, these revenues increased in addition to the benefits of the job protection action, because although the tax payable on one individual was reduced, but since employment was increased, the tax base increased significantly, so that the budget received additional revenue. That is why math is in order, so we can say that for individuals or for a particular enterprise, the reduction of GDP or the expansion of the job protection action is less burdensome, but thanks to the broadening tax base, budget stability is maintained, and thus the government debt reduction and disciplined public finance management can be expected to also characterize the year 2016. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-146	There is no intention of a further two-minute comment. We will therefore return to the normal speeches. I give Mr István Tiba the opportunity to speak on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The government's top employment policy priority is to implement the principle of employment rather than aid, and its long-term objective is to achieve full employment, in close cooperation with the competition sector. Accordingly, the system of related social assistance introduced is fairer and more transparent and prevents abuse of aid which has been frequently experienced. In addition to the forms of support provided by the State, it is up to the municipalities to provide social support to the people, as local communities have the best knowledge to decide on in terms of eligibility. Local authorities are more free to decide on the size and form of aid. In the new aid scheme, no one can be left without benefits, since municipalities without adequate resources receive central budgetary resources. Reintegrating aided people into the world of work is still a major objective in 2016. In this context, the budget expects that, over the coming years, those who are currently receiving employment replacements will gradually be transferred to the labour market, first to public employment and then to the primary labour market. As explained above, a dynamic increase in the number of persons participating in the Start Work Programme continues. Employment promotion programmes, such as the job protection action, will continue. In this context, an additional objective is to increase the employment of workers in the agricultural sector. The benefit to be introduced now also allows employers to apply benefits to workers aged 25 to 55 who work in agriculture. [[17.00]] The importance of the results achieved is demonstrated by the fact that the number of employees increased by 440 thousand compared to the first quarter of 2010 and that the structure of economic growth is balanced. The government also supports families in need by extending the free textbook supply system. Under the National Public Education Act, free textbook provision will be completed for the entire lower school by 2016. For this, the budget provides the expenditure surplus of the fourth graders' textbook packages that are now entering, while maintaining the funding of the need-based freeness in the upper grades. The government has treated the support of families, including the financing of children's meals, as a priority area throughout recent years. It is a milestone that from 1 September 2015 the possibility of free catering in the small children's care system will be increased, further reducing the burden on families in relation to child rearing and contributing to the healthy development of the future generation. To achieve this priority objective, in 2016 the budget will provide HUF 9.4 billion in additional resources to carry out the children's meals of the municipalities and HUF 2 billion for the non-state maintenance community. The government also adopted measures to assist families with regard to traffic taxes. From 1 January 2016, the VAT rate for pig meat will be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. In the 2014-2020 development cycle, Hungarian businesses will be multiplied by their tender opportunities. In total, more than EUR 34 billion of aid is coming to Hungary. This, together with the necessary domestic co-financing, represents a HUF 12 thousand billion development in the coming years. The government prioritises the use of EU funds, spending more than HUF 1400 billion on EU funding programmes and investments during the cycle, which is 4 percent of GDP. The government is prepared to use development resources in our country in a targeted and more rational way, and has also decided to devote 60% of resources to economic development based on increasing employment and competitiveness. It is also important that applicants can expect more transparent, simpler and rational tender procedures than before. One of the most important objectives of the transformation is to make the use of resources more concentrated and to set clear directions for businesses. The Employment Fund will continue to finance the Start Work Programme for HUF 340 billion in 2016. It is a priority government intention to get as many people as possible to work through public employment. The main objective of the Employment Fund remains to provide financial resources for active employment and training tools, vocational training and adult training grants, wage guarantee grants and to finance job search benefits. The Employment Fund shall contribute to the reception of EU funds by co-financing priorities for improving employability and improving adaptability. As regards the planned labour market programmes for the period 2014-2020, the Employment Fund is providing pre-financing. It will continue next year, and more and more families will be affected by the promotion of marriage with a tax discount. It also continues with the ged extra because it has proved that it encourages childbearing and the employment of mothers with small children. In 2016, families can use the new home creation program, the family home creation discount all year round. As a result of the extension of the job protection action and public employment programmes, there is also a positive trend in the labour market and the number of employees and people active is significantly higher than before the crisis. At the same time, the unemployment rate is constantly falling. In addition, the transformation of the tool system to encourage employment has contributed to the positive process. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has invested enormously in improving the situation in the labour market, which is also confirmed by the significant increase in employment and unemployment in European comparison. The government will continue to make every effort in 2016 to bring it even closer to achieving full employment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-148	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-05-28-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't begin my comment on the budget debate any other way than that this is really a hit-and-run budget. But not just this one, but now the sixth, because before 2010, you made promises, remember, Secretary of State Hoppál, Member, remember, those that were about a million new jobs in the economy, tax-paying jobs, those that, yes, Minister of State Peter Benő Banai, were about radical tax cuts. And I could tell you everything else about the raise. Then how does reality return, what does it show? Well, not exactly that. Forty-fifty new taxes. The fact that you are constantly singing here, slowly in Canon, in terms of employment, is how wonderful the picture is in Hungary. But in the meantime, I must say, if you do not know, Mr Secretary, I would like to tell you that, based on the closed year of 2009, and based on the closed year of 2014, the difference is 353 thousand people. But out of these 353 thousand, 170,000 appear in public employment. About a hundred thousand people in the magnitude of the fact that the circle of foreigners, the circle of economic refugees, is in the Hungarian statistics, and let's say you made 4 hours of 8 hours of employment, and the 4 hours are taken in the same way as the 8 hours, as one. If these three numbers, just this, and I'm not going to tell the story anymore, sum up, then there's over 300 thousand of those quasi, as if the rate of increasing employment data, the figure that I was just talking about, that's about all we can show between the two periods. There is no significant improvement in the economy, and the number of people producing new tax forints has not increased. That's the biggest problem. That's the problem, gentlemen. And the fact that you see the public as a statistical subject. Think of Pearl Tree. But I could give you other examples, where 30 people, 30 people, you might say, have cleaned 300 meters of trench for six months, because that was the job for six months. It's a shame! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's not true. It's already been denied. You don't read the papers.]] It's a shame! That's why the mayor resigned. That's why Mayor Németh resigned. But a multitude of such examples can be mentioned. You don't see these people the way they should be looked at, and you should give them a helping hand. You see these people as statistical subjects. Taking them out of the unemployed, putting them in the employ, the quasi, as if they were employed, and singing to the world what miracle the Orbán government has done, because the number of people employed is increasing. Now, if you're not looking at the employees, if you're looking at the wages, then think about what you've done, for example, to these people you work with. Minister of State Banai, in 2010, the public servant's net cash in hand was HUF 60 200. You've introduced the 47,000 forints public employment wage, now it's around 52,000. But in the meantime, five years have passed during their government, about 20 percent, 18 percent, 19 percent inflation, the value of this public employment wage in Hungarian today seems to be worth approximately 42 thousand forints. That is to say, your infamous two-thirds government has taken away one third of the value of their wages from these unfortunate people. Well, don't be so proud of that. Don't be so proud of that. I think he could follow her. If not, I'll do it again. So what I'm saying is, neither in terms of employment nor in terms of wages, there's nothing to be so proud of. The minimum wage man today earns 68 750 forints. That's his net, that's what he gets. Orbán put a poster in his nose and mouth: the minimum wage is rising. Where? Where? Your gross, gentlemen. It's what people paid extra for personal income tax. [[17.10]] After which people paid an extra burden on personal income tax, after which the employer paid an even more additional burden, it increased. It grew, but it wasn't what, in terms of purchasing power, in his pocket, he had more in his hand. Do you know how much the minimum wage is worth today by 2010? I'll tell you that you don't have to calculate: it's around 55,000 forints, it's worth 5 thousand forints less. Do you know what the living minimum is? You don't know, because KSH shows the 2013 data. It shows that there is a minimum of HUF 87 500; the estimated figure for this year is 92-93 thousand. On the basis of this, the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage is HUF 24,000. Not for the minimum wage, for the minimum wage. I mean, the scissors keep opening. And what are you doing? You're talking about wage development, real wage growth. Of course, there is, just not here, not in the case of low-income people, in the case of those who make up the vast majority of this country. You know what the 2013 NAV figures say? It means that 4.3 million people have made personal income tax returns, and of these 4.3 million people earn more than 2.2 million less than the minimum amount of living. More than half of the earners earn less than the minimum of living. So if you want to do something, you should do it first and foremost where you need to act in the interests of people earning low incomes. They should act there, not preach, not talk about averages, not bring hundreds of thousands of HUF increases in the upper regions into the picture as if it really was for the benefit of the vast majority of people living in the country. But there are not only a reduction in the purchasing power of the minimum wage or differences between the minimum wage, not only the issue of humiliated wages in the public sector, but also the public sector. Remember. 2008 was the moment when there was a change in the civil servant's salary base. Since then, there have been two Orbán governments: one between 2010 and 2014, and now after 2014. From the moment of the change of regime, there was no government - the first Orbán government, I must add - at which time the civil servant's salary fund would not have changed. Now it is shameful, but during the period of two consecutive Orbán governments, this civil servant's salary base has not changed for a single penny: HUF 38 650 is the amount of the salary base, HUF 38 650. What are you talking about?!They should be talking about, for example, how people can earn less than the minimum of living in 33 rubrics out of 140 rubrics for the public service pay table. That's what they should be talking about, that's what they should change. You know, that's what affects a far-reaching crowd of people in this country. I have to say, you're pursuing a policy that really puts people on the line and really cripples the people. You can deny that there is no poverty, you can say that there is no extreme poverty, there is no poverty, but there is, unfortunately there is. Unfortunately, you don't want to know this, but what's more, you don't want to do anything to change that. And, you know, the biggest problem with all of this is that now growing generations have to live on it, young people and children have to live on being raised in poverty and living in poverty. That is why you should take action to change that. This is what you do, in a way, the skinning of the people, placed in quotes, of the vast majority of society. I just told you today, when 2.2 million people - the NAV, not me, not Gur, the NAV! - you can't earn the minimum living, and nearly 5 million people are living their lives below the minimum living, so I think you have something to do. If they don't know what to do, I'm trying to help. Then I would suggest that not only I, but the Hungarian Socialist Party, in such a way as to introduce the one-digit tax burden for people at a lower income level. I can accept zero, it's a single digit, but if you can't do that, you can at least make it a single digit. Take steps that serve the interests of the people and keep their promises, those that were written at the time, five years ago, now almost six years ago; those that were about to increase wages in this country will create a million new jobs for taxpayers in this country; not vulnerable public workers, not kicking people out of the public sector, and then re-employing them as public workers for hunger. No! Something that gives people a source of decent living in their pockets. One word as a hundred: that is what you should be thinking about in the budget, which is what you should be thinking in the weeks to come, until we adopt this budget and bring it to life. I have no great confidence in you, because in the last five years, I have been disappointed in five budgets, but I will never give up, hope will be lost for the last time. I trust that I may have been able to give you enough impulses to even think about what you have to do in this regard; there are, because there are millions of people involved in what I have been talking about. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-05-28-150	State Secretary Peter Hoppál has indicated his wish to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-05-28-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honestly, I'm glad that Congressman Gúr came to the debate on the budget. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: He's been here all day!]] because his manifestations and his arguments require an answer, because the fact that a man makes a strong gesture does not mean what he says is true, and the list of demagogy does not strengthen the truth content, only weakens it. [[Márta Demeter: Have you run out of arguments, Mr. Secretary? Looks like it.]] Dear fellow Member, It is enough to put the welfare services listed by you side with each other in the light of the figures. So I'm not asking you to look at anything else - and then it's worth reading from the record what nonsense you said - but what the rate of inflation was when you guys finished steering and what it was like to be in the sky, and now it's converging to zero. How was the public debt when you guys finished government and what's it like now? He's in a downward trend. [[Dr. István Józsa: 5,000 billion...]] What was the minimum wage when you finished governing, and how is it now? It's twice the size of when you guys finished steering. [[Intruder from the ranks of the MSZP: That's the lie!]] What was the growth of the Hungarian economy when you finished governing? It was in Minus, so the performance of the Hungarian economy was shrinking. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] Seven percent. Amazing. This was not the case in the history of Hungarian democracy, Congressman. You have reached the negative record with your economic policy: the Hungarian economy has grown by minus 7 percent. Congratulations on that. You're so proud of that. And now we've grown by 3.6 percent, and this year's growth is around the European record, don't forget. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: At what cost, Mr Secretary of State?!]] With regard to the deficit target: socialist governments could never meet the EU's signed expectations of Hungary during your government in 2004. From 2004 to 2010, the 3% deficit target could not be met in any year. Hungary has only been able to meet EU conditions since then [[Dr. István Józsa: There was food for people!]] Since you do not govern, this is the good news for the Hungarian voters. And in terms of unemployment and employment, which is your area of expertise, I regret that you do not look at statistics and figures: employment has shown a significant increase since 2010 [[Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about?]] and a beautiful reduction in unemployment at the same time [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] as it happened between 1998 and 2002. When you govern, unemployment is skyrocketing when we, thank God, continue to decline. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Wild Duck in Pope...]]
u2015-05-28-152	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the representative of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition parties gave dramatic signals to our 2016 budget. This is the way it usually is, this genre can handle it, but I would like to respond in a few ways to the words of Nándor Gúr, which I also admire, when I wish to say a few words about the minimum wage increase. As a result of the economic policy measures taken in recent years, last year the Hungarian economy was also significantly strengthened in a European comparison. Improved employment figures and a persistently low inflation environment lead to a dynamic expansion of internal consumption, which may already be the primary engine of economic growth in 2015. Today more than 400 thousand people work in Hungary than in 2010, since the regime change, not as many people have worked in Hungary as last year when the employment rate reached 4.1 million people. This is Nándor Gúr speaking of a million new jobs as mantra. I respectfully point out that your government has adopted this European directive, that they will reach the EU's expectation of increasing the employment rate to 75% of the working age population by 2020. This would have meant a million new workers compared to 2010, which is what we need to achieve, which is what we received from the European Community between 2014 and 2015 and then between 2020 and 2022. That's what you've agreed to, and it's up to us to do it. [[17.20]] The number of unemployed people has fallen by more than 150,000 in four years, and today we are only looking at 330 thousand people, and the domestic unemployment rate has fallen by 2.5 percentage points to 7.7 percent in 2014, which is the greatest reduction in the EU's 28 Member States. Unemployment may continue to decline this year, and some forecasts suggest that it can reach 7.4 percent. Real earnings have increased by more than 3 per cent over the last two years, partly due to low inflation rates. The minimum wage has increased by more than HUF 30 thousand since 2010, by nearly 43 percent. I'd like to bring some data here from Eurostat that you might believe. In 2002, the minimum wage in Hungary was EUR 204 per capita, in Poland EUR 217, in Slovakia EUR 112. In 2010, towards the end of the crisis, who had this, we had 256 euros/person. So they were able to raise 25 percent of the minimum wage under eight years of government, while the Poles increased the minimum wage by EUR 100, and the Slovaks almost tripled it to EUR 307 and Slovakia can now give EUR 380, although the rate of growth is not higher than in Hungary since 2010, because we have increased the minimum wage by virtually EUR 78, almost 50 percent compared to you. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Gross. How much net? Talk about net. They don't sell groceries at the grocery store.]] It doesn't matter right now, the point is that you guys haven't been able to raise the minimum wage for eight years. Once again, they were able to raise by 25 percent. That's the price of your government, and we'll pay for it. And I ask further, if the debt had not been increased by HUF 14 000 billion, of which a great deal of jobs could be created, and it would not have been necessary to pay a thousand billion a year for repayment, this money could go on for purposes that the opposition parties were entitled to mark, but thanks to socialist government, Nándor Gúr quoted it in a different context, when even hundreds of the divine providence and the financial abundance of the world economy were not enough to raise the minimum wage, to boost the economy, thanks to their closing in 2010, in today's state of the country, it still has this effect. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not like that!]] As in 2013, retail sales increased significantly by 5.2 percent last year. This year, the engine of growth can increase the level of internal consumption. It should be mentioned here that, according to the latest figures, even the closings on Sunday have led to a large increase in retail stores, family business turnover, and a decrease in the number of multinational companies. In addition, consumption has not become smaller, only at other times or elsewhere, their fellow countrymen are purchasing everything they have purchased during Sunday shopping. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Will you believe it or will you just read it?]] Thus, it can be said that the plan has been fulfilled that consumers have become accustomed... Thank you, Mr Grimlock, I have listened to you, and I have listened with respect to it without speaking, thank you for your attention. From large supermarkets to smaller family shops, large and large consumer masses migrated. Dear House, The government wants to ensure that everyone in Hungary has a job and does not need income support. Accordingly, public employment will be available to more people in 2016. Next year, 240,000 people will have the opportunity to participate in public employment programs. Instead of HUF 270 billion this year, we will spend HUF 340 billion on community service programmes. The aim is to ensure that those who receive employment replacement support are gradually put to work, not to receive aid, but to work. Of course, the programmes that encourage this include action plans to protect jobs, but most importantly, in the following year and already this year, in the second half of the year, thanks to the European Union resource, a proposal for a development resource of 2,800 billion will be launched, which will have a positive impact on the employment situation in Hungary in the second half of next year, with which the government has not even anticipated in terms of data for next year. It is very important to mention that in 2016, the government will leave 138 billion to businesses employing disadvantaged workers, and next year, employers in the agricultural sector will be able to apply the discount throughout the year. The job protection action plan launched more than two years ago has greatly contributed to Hungary's better employment performance. On the basis of the data, Hungary is at the forefront of the EU's unemployment reduction. Tax benefits for part-time employment of parents with small children can continue to be applied. The increase in employment will mean that the state will have to spend less on aid and income support. The government's aim is to spend at least 60% of EU development and investment aid on economic development and job creation.In 2016, the level of personal income tax will continue to decrease and the amount of family tax tax will increase. We have heard this many times, others have said so, but it is important to mention this again. As a result, they have already said that, HUF 145 billion will be added to the Hungarian family. Families with two children with average incomes will earn more income by HUF 116 thousand next year. From 2016 onwards, we will gradually double the benefit of parents who have two children, from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000. An increasing number of families will also be affected by the promotion of marriage with a tax discount. Since 2010, the government has been working to gradually reduce the burden on families, to support workers and those who make a living by replacing work, leading them back to the world of work. In 2016, the budget will continue to serve and support this. I would like to comment on one or two previous speakers. I would like to say that I only got the text later, and Congressman Adam Mirkóczki spoke about the state of the police and the fact that there is no gas for the cars and that in the middle of the month, at the end of the month, they can no longer refuel and fill their own pockets. I asked two of my cop friends, one of them's a better guy, which is no trouble, by the way, a good friend since I was a kid. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Officer Jobbikos is not available.]] He said it wasn't true, they don't have quotas, they're free to use any amount of gasoline and diesel for their vehicles. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] So the point is, that wasn't true. I would like to note that here István Nagy, Secretary of State, I would just like to say that he should not commit himself to an anti- hail system immediately, because we should continue this debate to apply a generator or other solution now, but the point is that in this next term it will be possible for four years, that is how long it will take, 70 billion forints of damage relief in agricultural and rural development resources, so there is hope that much of Hungary will be covered with hail prevention systems, no matter what the technological solution, but there will be money, support this, and do not root against it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-05-28-154	I now give the floor to Congressman István Szávay of Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that Mr Hoppál, the former member of the Committee on National Inclusion, is also present, because my speech will mainly be on the subject of national policy, and I would like to comment on the relevant lines of the budget, and, briefly, before that, on two other issues. One is the question of supporting the National Cooperation Fund and civil society organisations. Unfortunately, the government has been disgraced in this area again. Here, MEP Teleki reminded you, in his previous speech, that I am sorry to do so, too, that, even during socialist governance, there has been twice as much public resources to support civil society organisations as it does below you, in principle during a conservative government that supports communities. In the National Civil Fund programme at the time of the change of government, it was HUF 7 billion. You've reduced this to a few billion. In the previous year there was a major change, this amount increased from 3.3 in 2014 to 5.4 billion forints last year. We welcomed this then, although we didn't think it was enough. It is incomprehensible that this trend will not continue, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, but the draft of next year again contains half a billion forints less support, which can be allocated to civil society organisations by the National Cooperation Fund led by Csizmadia László CEO CÖF, which would be worth a mass here, but perhaps we should not go into this, but this will be the responsibility of the government commissioner for accountability in 2018-19, I believe what is happening there. The other issue is that if we want to switch to national policy, it is to support nationalities. In order to say something positive, because I must also acknowledge this, I would like to welcome in the name of Jobbik that the government has a clear and clear ambition to correct nationalities, the situation of national minority institutions, and that national minority subsidies have grown in order over the last few years. We have said it ourselves on several occasions, and we consider it a key issue that Hungary should take the lead with an exemplary nationalism policy here in the Carpathian Basin, and in this spirit ethnic advocates have also entered the House. We are very pleased to see the importance of this being felt by the government when, in the next year's budget, it will significantly increase the budgetary support that will be able to finance nationality objectives, including nationality institutions, as proposed by national minority advocates. [[17 .30]] Turning to national policy, we have always been in a difficult situation in recent years, and even every year, I think that the secretary of state, Rétvári, was on call, with whom the debate and the duel on how much money is actually spent on a quarter of the nation, how much money you spend on foreign Hungarians. This is not entirely clear from the budget. Even with you, Secretary of State, we had a few discussions about this at committee meetings. It cannot be read, and the State Audit Office has also drawn your attention to this on a number of occasions, because national policy subsidies are still in an incredibly incomprehensible way in the budget. It's gonna give me and my coworkers a lot of work every year to sort of pick it up and say something. Well, this year it turns out that once again we do not have to expect any substantive change in national policy. There is an increase in real value, if we count well - I would like to point out that if we count correctly - there is only a small increase in real values. Perhaps in the fifth year of the system of national cooperation, we have now reached the point of realising the amount of government change in 2010 or the amount of money at that time for national policy purposes, for the purposes, culture, institutions, and more. However, it is also difficult to calculate how much money we are actually talking about, because it is not just that there are one or two hundred million forints hidden in the budget and in the ministry, with which, of course, it would not be a problem in itself, because we would support all these objectives, on the one hand, it does not really help transparency, and on the other hand, the spending of subsidies for national policy was quite creatively interpreted by the Prime Minister last year. We met regularly that the Prime Minister wandered around the Carpathian Basin, where he was visiting Beregszász, either he or someone from his government or Cluj-Napoca, and then hip-hop, spades-pakk, he turned up HUF 1-2 billion to support Hungarian institutions beyond the border. I would like to stress that, before anyone accuses me of being short or sorry for this money, it is obviously not that, but that these amounts should be planned. There's a budget, so put these amounts in it. The fact that Ferenc Rákóczi College of Beregszász needed a new building was known, let's say, last year. Let's just say you can argue about why it cost you exactly what it cost, but you could know it a year earlier, or it would be nice to renovate the dormitory in Cluj-Napoca. In particular, it is difficult to understand how to manage money in this way, and it is not difficult to understand, obviously it has campaign goals, but in light of the fact that you have introduced a system of institutions of national importance a few years ago as a relatively good initiative - badly carried out, but as a relatively good initiative. The main point of this is that the most important institutions that play the most important role in the life of foreign Hungarians should not be exposed to the need to build on different applications and wait for the amount of this, but should be decided at the beginning of the year and, if possible, at the end of the previous year, the amount of normative support they will receive in the following year. In this regard, there is also an extremely serious amount in the current budget, quite rightly. Another issue is that, in the spirit of national cooperation, you have carried out this with the usual violence and arrogance, without listening to anyone else and respecting anyone else's opinion, and have taken on board the institutions that are dear to you and which are politically close to you. There are, therefore, several items in the budget, and, of course, I should mention positives in this regard, to be fair, so there are some items where there is a serious increase. I would like to welcome this in any case, whether it concerns Hungaricums, or the activity related to Hungarian ecclesiastical persons abroad, or the income supplement for ecclesiastical persons serving abroad, to be precise. Here, there's a double of last year's amount. Very good and right, church and school, this is what is needed abroad, of course. On the other hand, if we are at the school, I will now raise the whip holder instead of my sausage holder: Congressman Hoppál, Minister of State, why hasn't the education allowance paid to Hungarian parents abroad for the fourth year now? Forint 4.8 billion is again included in the budget for education and education support. These are the amounts, those in principle 22, virtually only 17 thousand forints, which are now given to families who have their children written in Hungarian schools. This amount was introduced by you two governments two years ago, in 2002, and since then, a penny has not been raised. This system was so powerful, thank God, that even the Gyurcsánys couldn't erase it. However, you have not only increased this amount, but in recent years you have lost 5 thousand forints, we are talking about only 17 thousand forints. We talked about it several times in Parliament, we argued about it, they promised that the money would be returned, they didn't give it back. Now, in the budget for next year, it is clear and clear that you have no intention of paying this amount. Why not? I don't understand. I really don't understand. I'm confused about this. We have talked about this on several occasions in the Committee on National Inclusion. If anything has a national reserve outside the border, it is the Hungarian school. The Hungarian government must encourage the Hungarian government to send Hungarian children to school with all possible efforts. I know, of course, we have been going over this whole system, and I have been saying this here in Parliament for five years, at committee meetings, that the system is not good, the amount is not good, it is not filtered out that the right holders will receive it, or who will receive it, whether they really put the children in the Hungarian school, or whether they are even given to Hungarian children, and for example, not Serbian gypsies in Kosovo, who flood the schools in southern Hungary, and the rest, and the rest. In this regard, a number of times, a dialogue was promised to begin. No dialogue has begun, the system remains as bad as it was, but at least the money has been taken out of it. The other is the Unlimited!-program. This is a class trip across the border, and this is also an excellent initiative. He was in Jobbik's program in 2010, but I'm glad they did it. Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén has now been in a huge lie about this for the fifth year. When this program was launched, it was said that all Hungarian children will be able to take part in a cross-border class trip by 2014, i.e. by the end of the previous government cycle. Compared to last year's amount, less than 20,000 children were able to eat from last year's amount. There were so many, I'll say it again, very good of course, but you didn't promise me that, and that's not what we need. Not to mention that there are certain questions about the Unlimited! programme, especially in that restricted part of the programme, but we will discuss this at another time or at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, my time on this subject is over. I'd like to mention one more thing, this is the Rákóczi Alliance. Several civil society organisations are included in the budget, cultural, social, civil society organisations, associations and associations are placed on a support line, for example the Hungarian Writer's Association or the Scientific Society. These are, in fact, civil society organisations. The Rákóczi Association has also been a civil society organisation in recent years, although it has begun to become a little Fidesz event organizing office. Now, interestingly, a HUF 50 million grant was published in the budget, which we would basically not mind, because it is spent on very good and very good purposes, but unfortunately we feel some connection between the fact that the Rákóczi Association has now entered the budget with HUF 50 million, and that last week, former State Secretary Zsolt Németh was included in the presidency of the Rákóczi Association. I hope it is not that the former Secretary of State has bought himself into the Rákóczi Alliance with this HUF 50 million. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-28-156	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-05-28-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, the fact that you can't see me because you don't look in the room, doesn't make you right. You know, I'm in this room at 7:55 today. Now, that's the truth of that argument. [[Interviews from Fidesz: 7:55 p.m.?]] - Yeah, from 7:55 p.m. - That's the truth of what you said about my sentences, like you assumed that I wasn't there, and I just fell in. The other thought is that you just need to look a little bit at how the economy worked after the crisis, look at the last quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010 before the change of government, in which direction it pointed, decreased or increased, and then what happened in 2011. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Grown.]] Grown, yes, at the end of 2009 and in the spring of 10. There was a further decline after the change of government. This is the result of this governance, I mean what they are doing, where we have come from, and in terms of two simple sentences, in terms of employment, all I ask of you is that you do not cosmetics: create new tax-paying jobs! You know, they said a million new tax-paying jobs. Now they owe this country over 500 thousand. [[17.40]] In terms of wages, don't talk about gross, nobody cares. People look at wages that come into their hands, that they can buy, they go into the store and they buy the product. And you know, in terms of wages, yes, it can be done through inflation, you have to look at how much inflation has been in these five years, you have to look at what is net today, count down, and it turns out that unfortunately the minimum wage is worth less than in 2010. Well, that's what you've done, change that, for the good of the people, don't cripple them. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-05-28-158	I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-05-28-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the words of Congressman Bányai, because my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki is not in the room, but I would like to say a few thoughts on petrol fueling the police, if I may. I don't know where your friend is in the police department, but unfortunately, the Hungarian police cannot afford to refuel without a neck. There's a framework, you can call it a quota, a mileage, or a financial framework, but yes, it exists. At the eastern end, in Hajdú-Bihar County, I have also spoken to several policemen who, unfortunately, also have the same problem that my colleague Mirkóczki has already said, the budget runs out in the second half of the month and is forced to refuel his car with his own money. This problem must be solved, this problem exists, and no one tells us that it does not exist and is not real. From our own example, from our own experience, we say that it is an existing problem, and we hope that the government will also provide a solution to this problem in the future. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-160	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has applied for a statement. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In terms of employment, a number war is beginning to develop here. [[Dr. István Józsa: War of living!]] let me add some factual data. The government's primary objective is to increase employment and increase real income. Obviously, this is an objective that all governments across Europe and the world have set. The question is whether the government can achieve this goal. [[Dr. István Józsa: In what structure?]] My statement, Honourable Parliament, is that these goals have been achieved by the government over the last five years, by which I mean that, both on the basis of Hungarian statistics and on the basis of data from the European Union's statistical office, employment has also increased and real wages have also increased. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the data of the Hungarian Statistical Office were reviewed in advance by the Statistical Office of the European Union, with all the statistical methodology that KSH is working with. But if someone does not believe the data of the Hungarian Statistical Office, I would ask you to look at the data of the Statistical Office of the European Union. I must draw your attention to this, Congressman Gur [[Attila Mesterházy: He's up there!]] The attention of the notary is that these European Union statistics look at the number of part-time employees in all countries in the same way. Mr President, if you look at it after 2010, you will see that unemployment has increased in many countries in Europe, just because of the economic crisis, employment has fallen. Thank God, every year in Hungary employment grew. As far as real income is concerned, let me just mention one piece of data for the lowest earners. The minimum wage increased from 2014 to 2015 by HUF 3500. There is no inflation this year thanks to the cuts in overhead, a number of other measures and the favourable international environment, low oil prices. What does that mean? It means that the real income of everyone, even those with the lowest incomes, is substantially increasing. This process justifies the expansion of retail turnover, which supports the fact that wages could be increased, the expansion of the family discount system, by maintaining the stability of public finances, and I believe that this process can continue in 2016. Congressman! Dear Parliament, Next year's budget bill contains only wage and tax changes that, like this year, will increase real wages in all categories of payments next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-162	In two minutes' time, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai.
u2015-05-28-163	Thank you for the floor. I will be brief, but it is only a key price for the Member: I cannot give out the name, but I will show it to the gentleman in private. The police officer says there's no quota, they go as much as they want, they're not accounted for. That's true of Uncle Kiskun. If it doesn't work like that in Hajdú County, knock on the door of the Chief Constable there. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-164	Now we are going back to normal speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-05-28-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I speak on the social aspect of next year's budget, I need to say a few words about where we started, because the negative measures taken by previous governments have affected so far. In the first round, the Gyurcsány government assembled regular child protection support, family tax relief and family allowance into a single aid. Due to the measure, the family tax relief has practically ceased. The entitlement to the child has been abolished for those receiving regular social assistance. At the time of Gordon Bajnai, the family allowance was then frozen at the 2009 level, the duration of the child and the child were maximized for two years, as well as the insurance periods for the acquisition of the child and the child were increased from half a year to one year. In addition to the poor, austerity measures have mostly affected the less affluent middle class, namely pensioners and public sector workers. These measures forced people into foreign exchange loans. As a result of the systematic work started in 2010, the number of people at risk of poverty in Hungary decreased by a quarter of a million. While the proportion of people in the EU who have income below the poverty line is 16.7 percent, the situation in Hungary is better than that, 14.6 percent. Following the crisis, the government of Fidesz-KDNP stopped growing child poverty in Hungary. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Really?]] After the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, Tarki's analysis also showed that poverty rates, depth and income inequality have decreased in Hungary. At the time of measurement, 11 characteristics were tested according to the EU standard. Most importantly, a person or family below 60% of the average income is already poor, but unemployment is also seen as a risk of poverty. There have been significant improvements in all 11 indicators over the last two years. The greatest improvement in employment has been measured, and from 2010 to last year, the proportion of households from which no one works has decreased from 18 to 9 percent. The situation of households has also improved, fewer families are at risk of social exclusion and poverty. This tangible result is also due to the reduction in premiums and the help of foreign exchange lenders. But public work is also an important factor. Our poverty reduction programmes will continue in the future. The best chance of getting out of poverty and catching up is from childhood, which is why we have decided on compulsory kindergartening to ensure that children get into the socialisation environment as soon as possible, which can underpin their school success. For this reason, in the last five years, more than 6,000 cradle seats have been created out of some 28 billion forints, and almost 5,000 have been renewed. Kindergartening, as well as schooling, is the responsibility of the parent. It is therefore important that families have access to targeted social benefits for the care of children in compliance with this condition. One of the first measures taken by the government that entered office in 2010 was to link the family allowance to the school visit obligation, which was converted into school support. This seems to be effective, reducing the number of school failures from school year to school year. [[17.50]] One of our priorities is that every child in Hungary should have access to several healthy meals per day. Fidesz-KDNP voted yesterday to give more children free meals from 1 September 2015. In this way, children currently entitled to a 50 per cent allowance, children of families with three or more children, children with long-term illness and disabilities and their siblings can eat free of charge in the future, in addition to children with child protection benefits. In addition, children of parents with two or one child where the per capita income in the family does not exceed 130 per cent of the net minimum wage required, which is HUF 89 408 this year. Thus, the number of free meals in kindergartens and nurserys will increase three times from September onwards. It is very important for children not only to receive educational and pedagogical help in kindergartens, but also to ensure their meals, because if there is only one starving child in Hungary, it is already a lot. In 2010 it was 29 billion forints to feed children, and today it has doubled to 58 billion forints. For people aged 0-3 years, the "Secure start" children's homes help to eradicate child poverty and child hunger. Since 2009, more than 11,000 children and their parents have visited these institutions. In 2014, a budget of HUF 606 million was available for these institutions. In addition to 114, we will support the launch of 50 new houses in the next period. Families in need are no longer charged with the cost of the textbook package. We've introduced the free textbook system. In this academic year, 60 percent of children had access to textbooks free of charge. We have launched and continued the Erzsébet programme, which is not only about the recreation and camping of families, pensioners, people with disabilities or children in social need, but also about the presentation of the values, traditions, natural treasures and culture of the Hungarians. The amount of personal income tax will continue to decrease next year and the amount of family tax relief will increase. As a result, HUF 145 billion remains with Hungarian families. After all, families with two children with average incomes will have more incomes by HUF 116 thousand next year. From 2016 onwards, the benefit of parents who have two children will gradually increase from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000 in four years. It will continue next year, and more and more families will be affected by the promotion of marriage with a tax discount. It also continues with the ged extra, because it has been proven to encourage childbearing and the employment of mothers with small children. In 2016, families can use the new home creation program, the family home creation discount all year round. The employees will receive 63 000 salary supplements, to which 7.5 billion will be available in 2015 and 15 billion in 2016. Through the transformation of the aid system and related policy measures, Fidesz-KDNP has created conditions for people living in poverty to earn a living primarily through market employment, secondary to services and public works, while thirdly within the social assistance system. Overall, the planned support allocation of the Ministry of Human Resources for the social affairs and social inclusion sector in 2016 amounts to HUF 219 billion and HUF 316 million, which exceeds the initial support allocation of HUF 214 billion in 2015 by HUF 5.2 billion. More money is available, for example, to support non-public human services for social purposes. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Next year there will be 2 billion HUF 42 million more available for support services, community benefits, street social work, support for crisis centers, financing and development of children's homes. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few sentences about the catch-up programmes. The Roma are not scapegoats, but members of Hungarian society for whom we are jointly responsible, as is the joint responsibility to eradicate poverty. During the Hungarian EU Presidency, the European Roma framework strategy was adopted, which we can be proud of. Europe is now putting the number of Roma to 10-12 million, and in Hungary there are about 700-800 thousand of them. Their prosperity is also important for the Fidesz-KDNP government, and this is also reflected in next year's budget. For this reason, more money is available to the Türr István Training and Research Institute. This is the responsibility for coordinating public adult and territorial training, and its priority is to carry out tasks related to public employment. Its task is to develop complex and long-term social development, promote social inclusion and reduce the social impact of extreme poverty. The measures will help the employment, integration of Roma and the development of catch-up policy programmes. Operational programmes will be launched in the organisation and with the assistance of the Institute, the maintenance and development of which are also the tasks of the Institute, such as trust and work, Start Work Program, . I will learn again! , and,, Actively for the job! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Next year, there will be more funding for Roma scholarships, aimed at supporting the studies of disadvantaged students, especially Roma students, and supporting the continuation of the Tour-MACIKA scholarship programme. Disadvantaged programmes, which primarily promote the school success of Roma pupils, provide support from primary school to graduate school, and continue to accompany the student through his studies. It is also part of the "Travel to the profession" sub-programme. The Multifunctional Nationality - Roma Methodological, Educational and Cultural Centre is published in the budget as a new chapter for which the planned 2016 appropriation is HUF 79.2 million. These data also show that Fidesz-KDNP doesn't leave anyone on the side of the road. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the 2016 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-05-28-166	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-05-28-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, It is interesting to listen to the last eight years of the 2016 draft budget. One of the most shocking things to me was when Congressman Kovács said that the Bajnai government had frozen the family allowance. Mr President, you know very well how many times we have tabled our amendments to increase the family allowance, and you always vote against it in the Welfare Committee. So, it's a little shady that they're covering up what the Bajnai government did in 2009 while we were the last ones to raise this item in 2008. [[Sándor Font: It was still frozen by the Bajnai!]] The other thing I have to say is that you consider it so important how families will be affected by the 2016 budget that public media, which will be supported by 80 billion, will not mediate this budgetary debate. You should also consider how much you care about the Hungarian families. Then let's actually talk numbers. By comparison, more than 30 percent of GDP received welfare benefits in 2010, with less than 26 percent next year. In particular, social benefits, social security and welfare services accounted for more than 17 percent of GDP in 2010 and only 14 percent of GDP in 2016. But in education and health, there is also a decrease compared to the 2010 figures. It is also worth looking at how the overall picture has changed in other areas. While there was a decrease in the social field by 1.6 percentage points, the cost of the state's operation increased from 6 per cent to 8.4 per cent of GDP. If every year the state had spent only 6 percent on its own operating functions, the state would have spent HUF 2300 billion less on itself from 2010 to 2016 and spent more on Hungarian families. But we can see that there are so many Secretary of State and Deputy Secretary of State in this government that we have never seen so much. [[18.00]] It is interesting that, in terms of proportion, there was the highest rate of growth in sports and leisure activities and services, i.e. in 2008 only 0.07 percent of the total national product was spent on this, and they will not be surprised, and in 2016 it will be seven times more than 0.5 percent of GDP. And if we look at a few lines of the budget, we are not only building stadiums with a mass in this country, but there are lines like this: the establishment of an academic system for national sports associations. We're already setting up academies for 7 billion forints! [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: The academy is not a football field.]] Amazing! So it would be good for the government to be ready to start developing a long-term development strategy for what they're going to do with these stadiums in a few years. 'Cause I think it's a good idea to think about that, because in this country, we don't need so many stadiums, especially football support. It should be taken, let alone put more in the budget. [[Sándor Font's intervention.]] I would like to talk about a number of our amendments to the budget. You talk a lot about housing support, the CSOK program, and this year nearly HUF 25 billion more about housing support than next year's budget, while the government is on the road and on the road telling you how much they care about home-building benefits for families and how much they care about how much they can support their home creation. But it is also important to mention that this year's budget is almost 30 billion from the previous year, and that the current year will be drawn by HUF 25 billion next year. We have tabled an amendment to this that it would be good if funds were actually allocated to the home creation programme. Our next amendment is about the fact that Gábor Zombor, State Secretary, said on a radio programme in January that there is a very strong government will to increase the HUF 2 billion allocated to fertility treatments to the flask baby program to HUF 4 billion in this year's budget with a very strong government will. This very strong government will is now at the end of May, it seems to have slowed down quite a bit, because to date, we do not see the increase in this year's budget, nor in next year's. We are proposing an amendment to this in order to actually have this HUF 4 billion, because I always say that children born through fertility treatment are the result of the birth of the desired children. It is very important that this topic, the treatment of infertility, is also important for the government. Our next amendment: for several years, there has not been an increase in many family allowances such as family allowances, social benefits, or even a reduction of 20%, which is unacceptable to such a poor society. I have already said at least three times this week that Eurostat has another survey where the regions are being examined, from 273 European regions to the 20 poorest regions, four of the 7 regions in Hungary are included. We have submitted modifications to increase the family allowance, increase the maternity allowance, childcare allowance, child-rearing allowance, regular child protection, care fee and public health care, because these items have not increased or have been subject to a reduction for years. We also talked about the eradication of child hunger in Parliament this week, and we welcomed the introduction of free food in kindergarten and nursery as of September. It is true that the forecasted HUF 3 billion is planned for this year's budget for the period from September to December, and there is HUF 3 billion for the summer social meals, and next year's children's meals are planned for approximately HUF 10.7 billion, so that there is no longer HUF 3 billion for the summer social meals, and the annual free kindergarten and nursery meals are planned for HUF 10.7 billion. I assume that this will not be enough, because from September, in principle, if the law has not yet been amended, as it has been done for more than a year, healthy feeding will have to be introduced, which will again result in additional resource costs. Either the budget will allocate funds to it, but we don't see it in this year's budget, or next year's budget, or they're gonna make parents pay for it. We suspect that the latter will happen, that parents will pay the price for this measure. What you can agree with is that children should eat healthier, all you have to do is create the conditions. Our next amendment is on the social lines. We believe that the nearly 36 billion of the Olympic Centre may be able to compensate for the 110 million HUF decrease that is missing in the various social lines compared to this year. I will list some items where there will be a reduction in the 2016 budget. Don't reduce the support for homelessness-related tasks, don't get less sign language services and sight rehabilitation institutions, don't get less support for autistic homes, intellectually injured and multi-disabled housing homes, and don't get less for organisations with different disabilities, because while in the budget we have seen a large increase in support for all sports-related civil society organisations in the 2016 budget, there is a decrease in those NGOs that support disabled, injured people. I would also like to highlight the subject of domestic violence and violence against children. Here, too, we have tabled an amendment that the government should devote more resources to the development of the signalling system, and if this were to be achieved in the 2016 budget, perhaps the Istanbul Convention could be ratified by the government. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] What I would like to say is the increase in wages for workers in the social sector, which has been expected for several years. I was shocked to see that there was HUF 3.8 billion in budget support for faith teaching, HUF 400 million in small numbers of faith and ethics, HUF 3.1 billion in support of church religious education. That's 7.3 billion forints. [[Dr. András Aradski: Few.]] There is no way they can allocate this amount of resources to wage-setting workers in the social sector. So, you have to consider what's important. Mortuary education for teachers is basically happening for children. Consider, fellow Members, what is important is that this is organised in the social sector, or this amount of money is spent on teaching faith and ethics. I think that if we go through these lines, that 600 billion forints have been withdrawn from the social care system in recent years, and by reading through the current convergence programme, another 300 billion forints will be withdrawn, then think about whether we can talk about the extent to which Hungarian families are supported in Hungary. I think we need to finish this, keep lying. [[Happy Stephen: Then stop it!]] Within the walls of this house you can say that only the Hungarian families and only the welfare expenses and only them, and I think that you may believe it here, within the walls of this house, but if you go out on the street, people will tell you their opinion. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-28-168	Thank you very much. Welcome back, we'll continue our work. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I felt that, unfortunately, I must once again clarify what was said or complement it at some point in order for the Parliament to have accurate information in the debate on the bill. [[18.10]] The first small thing is that the amount of the public service media contribution is determined by a separate law, according to which the government has planned the relevant expenditure item in the budget next year, not HUF 80 billion, but less than HUF 70 billion. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, Secretary of State!]] which, I repeat, is defined by a separate law. The second thing that is more meaningful, important is whether the state spends more on itself or not. I think that this is the professional issue that can be discussed, and what I see is that the state, the state in the broad sense, has done a job arrangement in recent years. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Sure!]] a number of tasks from local authorities came to the government, to the central government, which was also needed to stabilise the municipal system and to produce these positive financial saldos. But if we look at what the state is spending, then let's talk about whether the National Assembly supports whether or not the public sector workers will receive a wage increase next year, whether or not it supports the disciplined management that has been achieved so far in the performance of so-called real expenditure, such as the purchase of cars or furniture, equipment, whether or not it should continue, because I see that in these so-called so-called itemary expenditures, [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] in those cases, Congresswoman, allow me to say this to you, because you raised it, so the state is very economical about these expenditures. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: In what? About what, Mr. Secretary?]] So let's talk about whether this task was good or not, or whether or not wage increases are due to public sector workers. As far as the welfare support system and the alleged withdrawal of funds are concerned, Congresswoman, I must say that thank you to God, the Hungarian economy is growing to an extent that, in proportion to GDP, the weight of some expenditure may indeed be reduced, I say: in proportion to GDP, not nominally. Let's look behind the numbers for this. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] We are talking about the fact that the growth of the Hungarian economy and the expansion of employment result in some social and unemployment-related expenditure being reduced. Indeed, Congresswoman, we can also see a reduction in expenditure here in the 2016 draft budget, and even in the so-called looking figures of 2017-18-19. But that does not mean that the state draws resources from certain areas, but that it means that, instead of being a god, some people can make a living from work. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, Secretary of State!]] As far as family allowances and family allowances are concerned, the congresswoman knows exactly how much the family allowance and other family allowances are, and when she looks at the state's resources for families [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I just told you!]] Please also take a look at the tax benefits on page 282 of the bill submitted, and add them to the family allowance. This table shows that next year the family tax allowance and the first married tax allowance leave some HUF 260 billion for families. I repeat: I would also ask that this be taken into account when we talk about a change in the amount of family allowances, and note that according to the legislative amendment that has been made many times, the amount of tax relief will increase substantially for more than 300 000 families who have raised two children next year. As far as housing subsidies are concerned, I am pleased that the Congresswoman has drawn attention to this point, because it must also be made clear here. Yes, in next year's budget bill, the amount of this appropriation will be reduced compared to this year. But let's see why. Because, Congresswoman, thanks to the gratitude of God, government policy and central bank policy, the basic interest rate is much lower, the interest rate is much lower, after which the state has to pay support. I report: this is a process for which all credible pleasures, all persons who have borrowed or borrowed housing support are pleased. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Very happy!]] Indeed, this is reflected in the fact that the housing market is booming, much cheaper to borrow, and, as appropriate, the related public interest subsidies are also falling. As regards another pillar of the reduction in appropriations as a whole, as regards the price barrier, Congresswoman, I would ask you to look at the justifications for the proposed bill. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] and you will see that the appropriations you mentioned included state support for the exchange rate barrier. But this year, thank God, the problem of foreign exchange credentialers is solved [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where, Minister of State?!]] Therefore, the system of the exchange rate barrier is no longer necessary. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, my God, Minister of State!]] This is factually stated, which is behind the decline in the figures, and I respectfully ask the Member to look at the justification for the proposal that has been tabled. And as for teaching faith and ethics, I usually stick to professional numbers, and let me quote the congresswoman, she said that we should stop lying. I believe that faith and ethics education in this context is, in fact, a positive and positive item of expenditure to be supported in the next year's bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. Zoltán Grimlock: You must enroll in there! You have to enroll in there. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: There is money for that! Zoltán Grimlock: No Crete, it's this way! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó Talks with Zoltán Gőgös and Péter Benő Banai.]]
u2015-05-28-170	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches of the speakers who have been announced, and we will now have Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I was the first to comment on the budget debate in 2012, when the debate on the 2013 budget took place in the House. I mentioned at the time that the budget for 2013 is a budget for stability from a tax point of view, because for the first time in many years, the most important things underlying the budget are related to tax revenues, the rates have not changed for 2013, i.e. 27 per cent VAT, 10 per cent corporate tax and 16 per cent personal income tax, health insurance and pension contributions have not changed. In fact, this could have been said in 14 and I am pleased to say that we cannot say this now for the budget year 16 because personal income tax is falling by 1 percent, which is a significant savings for families. But why is it important that the directions of a budget are stable and predictable through taxation in the long term, and why is it important that we have been pursuing this kind of fiscal policy for the fourth year I have to add? It is important because every time we think that it would be good to have Hungary's level of development similar to that of the Nordic states or the Luxembourg state community or other developed countries, we always forget to add what basic pillars this should be. Its pillars must be such that the budget deficit can be managed, i.e. below 3 per cent in line with EU expectations; there must be an economic growth that exceeds the annual budget deficit; unemployment should be reduced; public debt levels should be manageable and declining. Please respectfully, Hungary started this way after 2010 to say that, in the course of the budgetary debate today, these criteria, which are typical of the characteristics and fundamentals of a developing society capable of renewing itself, are a society that reflects economic growth and culture accordingly, a process that has started since 2010, and it can be said that, in the course of the budgetary debate, the work so far has not been wasted, because in relation to the 2016 budget, we are now talking about a budget that needs to have a budget for growth, and we have all the hope of doing so, because at this moment, there is 3.4 percent annual GDP growth in the first quarter, there is a budget deficit below 3 percent, unemployment shows a declining trend, unemployment is significantly decreasing; I have to add: which also involves an increase in the number of employees, in which we were very badly involved before 2010, and I also have to add that the government debt shows a recognised downward trend, which is also showing a recognised downward trend, which the Hungarian sovereign debt is due to the Hungarian sovereign debt. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] In order to quote today's or recent events with a great, truly unbiased news, the Hungarian yield has been brought to a depth. This, please respectfully, is a positive message despite all bad tastes and bad undertones, because it means that we can obtain foreign resources much cheaper, which significantly reduces the exposure of Hungarian public finances to the interest rate market and the bond market, and reduces the amount of funds allocated to this. [[18.20]] So all of this was part of a long process that was called mocking, in some cases, an unorthodox economic policy. Please, the unorthodox economic policy that I have just mentioned - keeping budget deficits below 3 percent, supporting growth, job creation, reducing unemployment, reducing public debt - is unorthodox policy. All other instruments can be used for this purpose, just as Cyprus has used the use of confiscating bank deposits, reducing pensions in Romania, reducing wages in the public sector. We did not do this, but based on economic growth and the start of favourable economic processes, on the need to reduce taxes on labour, the need to support the income received for work... - and today we are where we are at, that Hungary is one of the top riders of the European Union on the basis of growth considerations. All of this must be continued and the budget submitted for 2016 meets these objectives. The fiscal policy will continue this year, as I have said, from the point of view of a stable, predictable tax system with falling personal income tax, maintaining a very reduced low bureaucracy for small and medium-sized enterprises and tax systems that ensure predictable tax systems and taxation. The continuation of the OSH action plan continues to exist and is supported by us, and we welcome the fact that this will be extended to agriculture in 2016. I have to add or stress once again that the reduction of 15 per cent to personal income tax means an additional income of about HUF 116 thousand for families, and that the government also aims to increase living standards by reducing the amount of VAT on children, home-building support, and pig meat. But we can do this because we have something to spend on, we have economic potential now, we have an opportunity, economic growth is a well-founded growth with taxes and economic measures, which makes it possible to increase consumption in Hungary. It is an important element of the consumption growth targets and the fact that inflation is very low. We cannot go beyond the fact that the low level of inflation eliminates the biggest taxes on the poor, inflation, because it has always hit people with poorer fates, always people with poorer fates, who have not been able to avoid the effects of this inflation, one way or another, with such tricks, with such investments, and with such investments, such as money brought to the West in Simon Gábor. With low inflation, people plan more bravely, they will spend their income on durable consumer goods, and they will be able to use more bravely the state's means of home creation, the means supported by the state. Of course, this also means increasing retail turnover, increasing demand for products in the economy, which will increase the power of small and medium-sized enterprises on the one hand, and it can still be said that the small and medium-sized enterprises that, by the way, account for nearly 70 percent of the Hungarian workforce can employ these workers in the long term, which also points towards stability, growth and, I am afraid to say, future prosperity. That is why this budget is good, because these directions, these stability factors, including the principles of the state's economy and careful, careful spending with public money... - I think that it predestinates the Hungarian economy to be a budget for growth and success again in 2016, as I said at the beginning. Allow me to say a few words in my speech to the area that I should, by the way, be able to understand on my own initiative, or perhaps also understand, but I do not know this, namely: the evolution of budget lines relating to energy. There is no doubt that the budget must serve to ensure that our energy policy and energy strategy adopted in 2011 can be implemented and that the institutional system needed for this implementation can be operated effectively, forward-lookingly and up-to-dately. I consider it important to mention from these items that the central appropriation for the 2016 mine closure will increase by HUF 150 million during the draft budget for 2016 with a base-based HUF 1 billion additional resource, which, due to the stability and maintenance obligation, will amount to HUF 38,5 million in surplus, which can be expected for the persons responsible for the mine closure projects. I must continue to say that, in the social and political debates over the past years, the development of costs related to the peaceful use of nuclear power will always arise, and the question arises of what will happen if the Paks I nuclear power plant, nuclear power plant, blocks are to be dismantled, what will happen to them. They're always asking how the Central Nuclear Financial Fund's budget is going and whether there's any collateral for that. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the final disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuel, the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle, the decommissioning of nuclear installations and the nuclear law 10/A. Article 62 of the Nuclear Nuclear Financial Fund provides for the financing of the support of municipal associations for control and information purposes under Article 62 of the Nuclear Act. The Commission shall ensure that the aid is granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. From 1 January 2016, the operation of the KNPA will be provided with a total value of HUF 26,252 billion by the resources set out in the Nuclear Power Act. It is essential that MVM, Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. Its contribution to this fund will remain at the 2015 level in 2016, i.e. it will not impose any additional burden on the contributor to the initial training obligation, i.e. the nuclear power plant itself. As regards nuclear installations, the nuclear power plant's payment obligation is nearly HUF 21,2941 billion, which is complemented by payments from the central budget for the final or ad hoc disposal of radioactive waste made during the operation of the budget of the budgetary body founded by the Academy of Sciences and the nuclear installation operated by the higher education institution or another body financed from the central budget. This includes payments by nuclear-powered bodies not receiving budget support in relation to the disposal of radioactive waste. The payment of the listed bodies will contribute HUF 6.7 million to the operation of the Fund. In 2016, KNPA will finance from its revenues of more than HUF 26 billion of revenue the targets set by the nuclear law for a total of HUF 13 billion, i.e. the objectives of investment and development of low and medium-activity radioactive waste storage, research for the selection of high-activity radioactive waste storage sites and Boda, extension and renovation of the temporary storage of spent cartridges, support for control and informational municipal companies. [[18.30]] This shows in the budget that the siren sounds that cast doubt on the fate of the waste from the nuclear power plant and the financing of its management are not true but false. So we can look forward to the future, this kind of funding, which will increase KNPA's revenue and share of the spare basket at the same time, and, on the other hand, begin to carry out the necessary investments and carry out the process, which has not started today, will certainly result in a secure solution for the future, and the future will find adequate cover for these problems, these works. I should point out that, in the context of the Finance Act, the multiplier for the salary of government officials and government administrators employed in the nuclear monitoring body in relation to the maintenance of the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and, accordingly, the salary has also changed significantly. The central budget support for the Office for 2016 will increase from HUF 392.6 million in 2015 to HUF 1 billion for HUF 736 million. That is, I repeat, this support is increasing from HUF 392.6 million to HUF 1.736 billion. This will ensure that the Office, both in relation to the maintenance of Paks capacity and the effective performance of new official tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, in addition to the general economic approaches, from an energy point of view, the peaceful exploitation of nuclear energy can be seen as a debate on a sound, well-prepared and well-founded draft budget. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament, both on behalf of KDNP and as State Secretary, to support the proposed bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-172	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, has informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, in the time frame of the general debate on the bill, will today renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of Fidesz. I would ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Now we will continue our work with the speaker announced in advance. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-05-28-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to take a large part of the budget defence chapter in my speech, but before I get to that, allow me a short detour. It is a pleasure for us that Mr Sándor Kovács Fideszes spoke of Gypsy catching up, but it is incomprehensible why the representatives of the Fidesz faction did not speak about this. It might have been more credible from their mouths, and perhaps their constituents would have expected it. Among them, I can count on one hand how many times he has spoken in the last five years, by Flórian Farkas, former president of the ORE, who has not dazzled us in the last five years. It is also true that you may have other problems now, since there is an investigation into the ORE for unfaithful treatment. Our fellow Member Farkas may need once again a presidential pardon from the Republic, as has already been done in the '90s. But then I'd like to get to the defense chapter. The main expenditure amount of the defence chapter is approximately HUF 300 billion, which represents 0.85% of the planned GDP. Representatives of the government and the Minister often refer to the need to comply with international obligations, but NATO expects us to spend 2% of GDP on defence expenditure. That's not even close. This sum is 48 billion forints higher than this year's budget, but this was done by the government in a tricky way. In this year's budget, the cost of the military career model was not under the defence chapter, and now they're in here. Moreover, 20 billion of the action against ISIS is added to this, which is completely unnecessary and dangerous for Hungary, and not politics in our national interests. Our basic law states that the soldiers should be paid in proportion to their sacrifice. Despite the welcome wage increases, this has still not been achieved. In the future, we would like to see their salaries raised in proportion to the sacrifice of the soldiers. The number of staff is set at 25,533. This, as in this year, is more than 4,000 people short of the 29,700 people determined by a 2013 parliamentary resolution. In the number of soldiers that can be deployed, it can be said that there is a decrease. The biggest lack of the defence budget is the small number of developments and the small amount spent on development. The explanatory statement proudly states that the investment rate is set at 17 percent, but this includes the Gripen lease, which amounts to HUF 27.4 billion. If we take this off, there's about 7-8 percent of the defense budget for development. The ideal ratio would be 40 percent personal, 30 percent material and 30 percent development expenses, but this ratio is distorted, nearly 50 percent personal, 43 percent material, and, as I just mentioned, we only spend 7-8 percent development. It's impossible to build a powerful force. This road is headed for the demise of our army. It's interesting that next year's budget doesn't include the launch of a helicopter tender or the acquisition of a helicopter. The government's been hovering this for a long time. Our question is, when will this helicopter tender be issued, and where will it be paid if it is not included in next year's budget? It's probably not going to happen this year. What I have already mentioned, and what is very painful is the fight against Islam, we spend 20 billion forints a year on action against Islam, which is an unnecessary risk for our country beyond the fact that Hungarian soldiers are serving on foreign soil and may be in danger. This action was voted by Fidesz with the Democratic Coalition hand in hand. It should also be said that the amount allocated has already been increased this year, from 5.5 billion to 6.8 billion, the amount that we are spending this year on action against the Islamic State and military action. In the budget, these amounts, which we spend on actions against the Islamic State, are not in the same line, they are divided up, so it is quite difficult to submit an amendment to this. What I think is important to say about the defence budget is that we find the amount of more than HUF 38 billion for security protection to be a high amount. This is likely due to the fact that they have concluded non-benefitful contracts for object protection, and this would need to be reviewed. The amount of money that could be saved from this could be given to military national security services. In the known international situation, I am thinking here of the Russian-Ukrainian war and the risks of our action against the Islamic State already mentioned, especially the military national security services have an important role to play. And in order to be able to complete their highly valuable task and to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people is fully guaranteed, they would need additional costs. This will be presented by us, the representatives of Jobbik, in our amendments, and I ask the Government to support them. [[18.40]] What is still important and is also aimed at redeployment within the chapter is the victims of the Honvéd Health Fund. As we know, their money invested in the Honvéd Health Bank is being held back safely by the Honvéds, because the Buda-Cash gambler has robbed the bank group where they kept their savings. This is about nearly 28,000 people and their families who lost a total of 1.8 billion forints. We would also like to compensate for this in the next year's budget and take these funds away from the actions against the Islamic State already mentioned. What I think is important, and this is no longer part of the defence chapter, but of my narrower Patria, the county of Hajdú-Bihar, which I have mentioned many times in the walls of the House, the measures relating to the refugee camp in Debrecen. Viktor Orbán's words served campaign purposes when he was in Debrecen, which was already discussed here in the House, and we exchanged ideas with State Secretary Károly Kontra, because in a few days the news came that not only their refugee camp in Debrecen, but also their refugee camp in Customs Free, will be expanded and more immigrants will be placed in these refugee camps. What is a very important and cardinal issue in this - and I have asked it several times here in Parliament - is when we will finally get to the point where the government intends to make these refugee camps shut down, shut down the refugee camp in Debrecen, the refugee camp in Customs Free, and the people staying there should not have free access. If I may ask Mr Secretary of State to reply specifically, since he has always avoided answering this question. In addition, I would also like to give some thought to my proposal for an amendment to the local situation in Hajdú-Bihar. We also consider it very important to restart the sugar factory in Kaba after the future abolition of the sugar quota. On the one hand, this would create hundreds of jobs in a backward area such as the Bihar region, Kaba and its surroundings, and we could also boost agricultural production. In addition, we would like to propose additional amounts for the development of the Hajdú-Bihar road network. The further construction of the two motorways, the M4 and the M35 motorways to the border is also very important for the local people, and there are many lower roads in a state that is unsustainable in Hajdú-Bihar county. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-174	On behalf of the government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am very pleased that the Jobbik faction also welcomed the salary increase in the 2016 budget in the defence chapter. As we often say, this budget provides an opportunity for all of us to move a little further forward, this year's budget gives every soldier the opportunity to move a little further forward, as it was the last salary increase at the Hungarian Defence Office during the first Orbán government. Indeed, this year's 30 percent salary increase is followed by a further 5-5 percent salary increase, between 2016 and 2019 the soldiers can also move forward on 1 January each year, and the defence budget is also a small step forward. Just as the entire budget takes a step forward and the expenditure is rising and it reaches almost HUF 300 billion. The development will continue and indeed the Gripen lease will be a major part of the amount that can be spent on development next year. It also shows that development in the military industry is not cheap; we are taking a step forward in this too. The budget for 25 553 people's salaries and salaries this year will provide an opportunity to increase the number of people, especially for contract soldiers. So we can take a step forward here. I trust that it was a Member's slip-up in the language of the fight against Islam, because the fight against Islamic religion is neither in the budget nor in the parliamentary decision, which Parliament voted for by more than two thirds; it is an action against the barbaric terrorist organisation against the Islamic State. I think that we can agree, at least the people here, the majority of the Hungarian Parliament and the majority of the Hungarian people, that against this organization, which we read in everyday news about their barbaric, inhumane actions, we need a great effort to stop them even where we can stop them in the bud. Hungary has also joined this action, the coalition of 60 countries. The percentage of the budget adjusted to GDP is also increasing, and we can move a little further here: 0.85% of GDP will be the total expenditure on next year's budget. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned the 2 percent required or expected by NATO, which is equivalent to two countries outside the United States at the moment, so the 2 percent can be achieved by very few countries. But that's a step forward. In 2010, the second Orbán government took over governance in a close-up situation, and this was the best we could do in these four years. We will certainly be able to take a step forward next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-176	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has applied, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Kulcsár called on me in his earlier statement, which I would like to reply to. Here, too, I confirm that I have always given concrete answers to questions addressed to me, and I still do not deviate from this good practice. I would like to remind Mr President that the issue of immigration, the issue of illegal migration and subsistence immigration, is being consulted at national level. I'm asking you to take part and answer these questions. After assessing these issues, we will be in a position to submit the necessary legislative proposals to this House. I trust that this national consultation will be supported which meets the interests of Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people, and that we can present these proposals to this House, and I trust that we can then give a clear and clear answer to this question. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-28-178	Thank you, too. Now it's a two-minute lap. Mr Gergely Tapolczai, representative of Fidesz, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-179	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I waited a bit, unfortunately Ildikó Bangóné Borbély did not come back, and at least I would like to say the following for the record. During today, it has been said several times that the government and Parliament have not been able to save HUF 7.5 billion for those working in the social sphere since 2015. In this connection, I would like to reassure my fellow Members that the Government's decision has already been made, Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of State Károly Czibere, said that HUF 7.5 billion will be set aside, separately, and another HUF 15 billion next year. [[18.50]] In addition, just like last year, this year and next year, 12 billion HUF will be earmarked for the additional wage. So in a total of three years, we spend approximately HUF 60 billion on raising wages for social workers. That doesn't mean we're stopping here. As I said earlier, I am very confident that we will develop and launch a social career model in this area by 2016. However, we agree with my fellow Member that support for organisations and support for autistic homes will be reduced. I have also mentioned in my speech that I have tabled an amendment to this in order to maintain the 2015 aid level in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-05-28-180	Congressman Nándor Gúr is the next two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry that Secretary of State Banai left because I didn't want to react like that, he was still here when I pushed. But I am obliged to tell you, because for the record, if for no other reason, it must be noted that there is no dispute that more people from the benefit group will be given employment opportunities. It is already the case if they are given employment opportunities which, by the way, undermine previous positions. I don't have to tell you public service again. People can work for less money. It is also the case that nearly 70 percent of people in Hungary earn under the average wage, and the government does not intend and does not act in the direction of trying to lend a helping hand to people at low income levels. And it also means that more than 2.2 million people make money under the minimum living. So, these are unacceptable proportions, unacceptable proportions. You have or would be convinced that you have something to do in this regard. My second point is that, in his absence, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary, not once to refer to five-year series, the data of one year and the intermediate years in the other sentence, but to do so in a consistent manner, so that the story can be followed and matched. And by the way, my two final thoughts are just that, once again with great respect, I ask my fellow Members on the government side to pursue what was promised five years ago: a million new taxpayers' jobs - once again to be clean: one million new taxpayers' jobs - and, in terms of wages, they should not be wages with decreasing purchasing power but with increasing purchasing power, no matter what, minimum wage or anything else. Last sentence: OKAY met with it today [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that eleven questions about nine sexes, one maybe, one not current, that was the answer to the 2016 budget. Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. President.
u2015-05-28-182	Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State Kontra, Indeed, he answered in a good way, avoiding the specific answer. My specific question was whether the government wants to close the refugee camp in Debrecen or not, whether the government has such a purpose or not beyond the national consultation. The other thing Jobbik has long demanded is that these refugee camps be relocated outside inhabited areas. On illegal immigration, the other important issue, which has already been mentioned by my fellow Member Mirkóczki, is the creation of an independent border guard, which is very much needed by our country. Our southern borders are swarming with illegal immigrants. This could be a bigger problem, but as I mentioned earlier, my fellow Member Mirkóczki has already explained this. One more thought in the last minute, and this is about the quota system to be introduced. We are also curious about the government's position here. In Jobbik's opinion, this must be rejected, because this quota system can open up a door that smaller states like Hungary can drink, because they can change these quotas later, drastically raise them, and the refugee flow to Hungarian people, our country, could pour out even more than today. I would like to ask your specific answer to these questions, highlighting whether the refugee camp in Debrecen is to be closed or not, whether such an open camp will remain. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-28-184	On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has applied. Here.
u2015-05-28-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to go back and answer your questions to me. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made the Hungarian position clear on the quota system. Allow me to refer to this. I believe that this does not need to be commented or confirmed, so this is a clear position. As far as border guards are concerned, I have repeatedly said to Adam Mirkóczki's fellow Member and several Members that from 1 January 2008, when the border guard was integrated into the police, a new situation arose. We've lost our own border guard. However, while the number of border guards before was around 11,000, in the new situation, the police as a whole can perform this task, so not only the units performing the role of border police, but all police officers can take part in this important task, using the possibilities given by deep control. So, basically, we've had around 11,000 border guards in the past, and now we've got the entire police force's personnel and professional personnel. So it can also be considered, honourable Member, that this is an opportunity that will increase efficiency even more. As far as integration is concerned, allow me to say that, in my view, the government at that time made the mistake when it released a significant part of the border guard's personnel from the system, so it could not give a new task, it could not keep within the system these well-trained, highly trained professionals, border guards, and this was indeed a loss in respect of the new organization's personnel. But this exercise was terminated on 1 January 2012. As regards the closure of the refugee camp in Debrecen and the future of the refugee camp in Debrecen, the Prime Minister's visit to Debrecen made the government's position clear, and you know it. And what it means is that we are closed, I believe that by addressing the legislative ideas to be developed following the evaluation of the national consultation, I have clearly said that I have confirmed that we are going to ask people, in the opinion of the people, we are going to make these proposals. Patience, please. We are confident that by the end of the summer we will be able to make these proposals, and then I can give you an answer to your question that will satisfy your curiosity. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-05-28-186	Dear Parliament, Work will continue with the speakers announced in advance. István Happy is the next speaker, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-187	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, When I was preparing for today's meeting, my son asked, "Dad, will you be home long?" I'm telling you, it's a long time, because we're discussing the budget. What's a budget? I'm telling you, it's like when the family sits down at home and we talk about what we're spending this year, whether we're gonna have a game, whether we're gonna go hiking or not. He says, "Yeah, okay, Dad, but why are you there so long? I'm telling you, because it's a little bigger, it's like we're discussing the budget of all the families in the whole country, and even the big budget, the country's budget, it's like negotiating the national budget. But, I'm telling you, there's a big difference. He says what. It is, my son, that when we sit at home and start talking about the budget, then we agree at the end, and everyone knows that he is responsible for the amount of income we have, we have to pay, because if that's not the case, then we have to take out a loan, and that's not so good. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is the irresponsibleness of the government side!]] While the debate in Parliament lasts long because only the government and the governing parties are responsible here for keeping the budget, the others can make the promises and demands they want, because they are not responsible for it, so that it is respected. Come on. That's what this parliamentary debate is like, I think. My little boy understood. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Poor kid!]] I trust that the people who watch this debate will understand. You can see that I've been sitting on the sixth budget for the fifth year now, and I'm sure I'll be able to see it, too, by television viewers or by those who follow it... [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP, among them: They are not!]] There are those who can see it, be calm, because there is a television that broadcasts it, which is televised by Parliament. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Few!]] [[19.00]] So you can see that we are responsible for preparing a budget every year, and when we negotiate this budget, the opposition is attacking it. He always makes bigger and bigger promises, the socialists get enlightened, and they list everything that should be done in the budget, which, by the way, was either taken away or terminated, or they didn't even think about it at all. [[Zoltán Pride: Only what you promised in our time!]] That's why we always have to warn him where we started. Yesterday, an opposition speaker said that you should always look at the base. Yes, the base is obviously always 2010 because of what the government inherited in 2010, even though it has been five years, but the basis is that we started there. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's it, it's been five years!]] We started out with unemployment above 13 percent. We started with a government debt above 83 percent, GDP was down, and please, they could never keep the deficit below 3 percent, there was an excessive deficit procedure against the country. Technically, we can safely say that we were mentioned together with Greece. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's the problem, that's what you're talking about!]] Let's see where Greece is today and where Hungary is! [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] I am pleased that my fellow socialist Members are shouting at me. In case you haven't noticed, I'm sitting here at eight o'clock in the morning and letting you talk, and I expect that respect from you. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We've been here since 8:00 in the morning!]] The point is, we started at this level that you left us, a country close to bankruptcy. And what happened, please, in five years? What we've just come to is that the government has shown us a way [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He tried to protect this path, and not only did he try to protect it, he managed to protect it against the EU Commissioners many times, often against opposition attacks, often against multinational companies and banks. And the Hungarian people carried this country there in five years, with persistent work, that we can now say that next year, all people can move a little further, if only a little further, thanks to the fall in taxes next year. And how much do they decrease? If you take personal income tax, it's going from 16 to 15 percent. Yesterday, the head speaker of the MSZP said that it was nothing, please, this is only a thousand forints for a 100 thousand HUF salary. Yeah, you know, when someone's salary is hundreds of thousands of forints, he's got nothing, but he who pays 100 thousand forints means a thousand forints. [[What about the pensioner?]] I think, and there are a lot of people living in this country who are good for them, and they're happy to have their income up by a thousand forints. [[Zoltán Haughty: For you! There's gonna be a toy for the kid.]] This is the road that shows that every year Hungarians may be able to live a little better, because they have worked hard for it, they have done a lot for it over the last five years, and they continue to work on this path. Otherwise, of course, opposition representatives come with their needs. Well, who is it when he makes his family budget at home, who doesn't say that, of course, if my son wants 5 thousand forints more for his allowance, then let's give him 5 thousand forints more? It's just that he's always bumping into the wall, so maybe he doesn't have that kind of income. Here in the pocket money, opposition representatives say how much allowance we need, we need it, we need it, we should agree with it, because who else wouldn't want, let's say, the minimum wage would be 200,000 forints. I'd like that, too. Who doesn't want a salary, a Hungarian average salary, to be hundreds of thousands of forints? Or who does not want municipalities, even small ones, to spend tens, hundreds of millions of forints a year on development? I think if I ask you this, everyone agrees. But these fantasies are beautiful, but we still have to keep the frameworks from which a budget is managed, and in the management of a budget, it cannot be built on what the socialists have built, that they have taken loans in order to take welfare measures, and then even the 13th month salary has been taken away. Yeah, we have the two percent deficit we're planning next year, and we have to keep it, because it's very important that we keep it. [[Dr. István Józsa: Give it up! Zoltán Grimlock: Yes, it must be published after all this time!]] And what happened in the last few years? In recent years, we have taken the debts of the municipalities and taken over by the government. More than two thousand municipalities assumed over HUF 1300 billion in debt overall [[Zoltán Grimlock: The fortune is gone with him!]] And there were 1176 municipalities that didn't have any debts. It's obvious that we have to help them, for example, in my district, the city of Martfű. I am very pleased that in 2015 we spent HUF 6 billion on this, and in 2016 we can apply for HUF 12.5 billion for settlements larger than two thousand people, and I hope that Martfű's city will also receive HUF 180 million for its development. What can these settlements develop? They can build inland roads, sidewalks, renovate municipal properties, repair precipitation systems. I think these are all very, very important investments. And here we can also say that in these municipalities are also the investments that the socialists are attacking: such are the academys, such are the schools, such as those which are built on Törökszentmiklós - a beautiful school for more than 300 million forints - which is very needed, everyone says, regardless of party standing, and, of course, such are the gyms, which are also very much built in the country. The HUF 5.4 billion that is available for small and small investments will also be published in the municipalities next year, and there are, indeed, small municipalities that can only start on this tender and apply here. Employment is very important in the municipalities, there are public workers in many settlements instead of working with the help of the community. And while my fellow Member Gúr does not like this community service programme very much, I see that he does not deserve these people to do these work, we have to add that 224 thousand people will work in public work next year and that HUF 340 billion is available for this. And what do these people do? 'Cause you guys are always short on their jobs. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Your salary!]] Please, gardens are maintained, for example, in two ponies, gardening is maintained, for example, in Kengyen, a cheese factory in Tiszatenyő, and I could tell you more, and there is one where they beat the trough themselves and build social housing for young people. I think their work deserves respect, not what you're giving them here in Parliament, and you're constantly criticizing Start work. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You give me the ridiculous wages!]] Start work and community service are very important to the country, and the community work in which only parks are cleaned. As far as my district is concerned, I am pleased that part of the cost of construction of the M44 motorway is already reflected in the 2016 budget. [[Zoltán Pride: Finally something!]] This highway is very important for the Tiszazug area. This is the road connecting Kecskemét-Békéscsaba, which will cost HUF 243 billion in total. I think the people in the Tiszazug area will be very happy when the road is completed. I trust you'll begin your work this year. The other very important road investment in my district is the M4 motorway, which has now been stopped because of the Union, but the NFM is already working on a new concept. This road, please, must reach from Budapest to the border, so my fellow Member Bangóné will also benefit, because this road will also go to her district, fortunately. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Aha! I read yesterday's news.]] I hope that we will begin to continue the phase that has now been stopped as soon as possible; I am also sure that the section between Budapest and Szolnok will also start. It is also very important that next year's budget ensures that the renovation of the lower roads that we started two years ago is continued, since it is important that the motorways can be approached from small settlements, whether the inhabitants of small settlements can travel or not. I think this budget is about such important things, about things that are very important to people. This budget - just like the previous five, which I participated in in the debate - has exactly the same task: the stable operation of the country, which the opposition is obviously trying to attack with all sorts of proposals and put into it things that upset it. And we know with responsibility that the budget that the government has put together will ensure the stable functioning of the country and ensure that all Hungarians can move a little further forward next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-188	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here. [[19.10]]
u2015-05-28-189	Thank you very much for the floor. It is good to sit here since 8:00 a.m. and listen to the budget debate because it is good to listen to the Fidesz-KDNP Members try to defend the defenceable budget with their sentences. They're telling you family examples and stories that you're really starting to fill out your paperwork, how you're gonna try to convince you that people don't believe what you're telling us anymore. It's a good thing the M1 isn't going to broadcast it anyway, because no one would watch it, because the average man in the country is listening to your sentences today, he's going to slap one down, and he says, "Well, they're talking nonsense again." We've really felt this since 8:00 in the morning that you've been so far from reality that it's incredible! In the last few days, each of you has been well described on your paper that it should be said that we are seeing fewer tax budgets for more jobs. For some time now, we have had the feeling that we have seen the budgets of more public workers and less taxes for friends, wealthy friends, and that we are not reducing the work of public workers, but reducing their salaries. Our problem, you know, is that we can talk about gardening, as Congressman István Happy said, is that they work in your gardens and do creative work, the only problem is that you work public workers in your own melon land. That's how much you appreciate these people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Simonka case!]] We appreciate it, we want to give them much more work, we want to give them value - building work, and work that can be done today. 'Cause, you know, the problem I usually tell your age is that when they ask me what I think about what's going on here in this country, that while your age, most of your age, had the possibility that when you were young, you knew you'd have a job, you'd have a salary, you'd have an apartment, and you'll have a car, and you'll have a car; my age doesn't have these options today. My age needs to grow up in a world where he sees that his job may not be, or tomorrow he won't be, or he may have to make a living from community service. You can't have kids on community service. Then you can talk about tax credits that support children, but they don't tell them anything, they don't dare take that step. They do not dare to take this step because today they do not know what they will support themselves from, or how they will be able to fly out of the family's nest at all, because today's 30s must live at home with their parents, which is a very good thing, not that, but they do not have the opportunity to move on and to start a normal family. This is your responsibility for the last six years. They've made a lot worse than the future of this age group because it's the age group that's growing up now, and if you can, that's why you're leaving, because you can't see your future, you can't see that in this country, you're going to have any talent and opportunity that's slowly outside of community service, because you haven't really created any other jobs in the past. And then let's see what we've been getting from you over the past few years, since 2010, because of your economic policy. We've missed the countries in the region, and the numbers prove it, and you can't deny it. The general government balance is only apparent, and the deficit is only below 3% of GDP due to the nationalisation of private pension funds. Keeping the deficit level was only due to this. You have applauded this 3000 billion forints, and it is this young generation who doesn't know what he's going to get his pension from, even though he's been saving his money there. I hope there were a lot of young people who decided to keep their private pension fund today and not give it to you. Poverty has only increased, and you can't deny that, because workers' poverty is now a fundamental concept. It's a basic concept that everyone in the country understands, that what you work for, you can't make a living. Not only can't make a living until the end of the month, after two weeks, he doesn't know how to buy food. Checks are collected there, gentlemen, in their drawers people, and they look at what a deadline is, in their calendars, when they cut off the light or gas and pay for what is just ahead of slaughter. I can't believe you guys can't hear this. I can't believe you won't be confronted in the market when you go home, because it would be shocking if you didn't meet this, because then you really live in a cage, in a glass cage, from which you look out the reality, today's Hungarian reality. The fact that you are now reducing personal income tax from 16 percent to 15 percent is not going to really affect the layer that needs this right now. You know, gentlemen, the biggest problem is that it will mean such a thousand forints to the people who live in the minimum living area, up to HUF 1000-1500. For you, ministers and secretary of state, yes, this will mean a greater amount of money, you will notice, but these people will not notice. This is shocking - don't you understand that these personal income taxes don't have to be reduced, because it takes a more serious salary to feel them? But must we take steps not to have such a thing on the minimum wage, for example? Because it would be the only solution, but you don't understand it, or you don't meet a man who's faced with it. As we have seen, you do not want to solve the problem of foreign exchange lenders, and this seems to be quite serious in the current budget. After all, the budget continues to stay away from solving the problems of foreign exchange credentials, despite the fact that your economic policy is the one for a large part of the decline in exchange rates. Not only does the State not participate in the burden, but it profites specifically from the weakened forint and wants to use it for other purposes. According to the MNB's balance sheet for the first half of 2014, it showed HUF 422 billion in exchange rate gains. In addition to the 2016 budget, but also in the 2015 budget, a significant amount of dividend payments by the MNB could be used to help foreign exchange lenders. Because the state is the only one who hasn't taken responsibility for this yet. It's you, your government, who didn't take responsibility for foreign exchange credentials. You said that the repayments would be reduced by 30 percent. That's what you're telling me. Now a number of their representatives have said that the family budget is designed so that you know how much comes in. In December, people were counting on you to save the foreign exchange credentials. They expected that they would lose around 25-30 percent of their payments, and they expected that their lives would be a little easier from May to June. You cheated them, too, because, in any case, 22 percent of foreign exchange credentials didn't just drop, they increased their repayments. So what he was counting on, how much he'd have in his pockets or how much he'd be able to spend on anything else, he'd have to face the fact that it's as far away from reality as, as they say to us, Mako is from Jerusalem. But we're not even surprised anymore, and people are really gonna say, "What you're saying, you're not supposed to believe." You better turn it off, 'cause at least it doesn't piss you off. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] You can yell, Mr Happy Member, but this is the reality of today's Hungarian, if you're on the street, you'll meet him. We also heard on the first day that we could meet with the budget of Christian thinking. Well, then, families should be helped, and small earners, and poorer people, and those who can barely make a living in the country, because that's what Christian thinking would be. Even Pope Francis said in his last speech that we must protect the poor and not defend ourselves from them, protect the weak and not exploit them. As a Swedish Catholic girl, I think I can afford to quote Pope Francis, because I believe in what he says. What I can tell you about you, here, is very little that you believe in him from the heart. And then let's get down to environmental issues. For example, for the environmental remediation programme, the government does not recommend a penny, while we are now facing problems such as Scenty Road and the Cséry site. I understand the government's thinking that the polluter will pay, but at this moment this polluter will not pay, no matter how many times we call him, every time we tell him that we will impose penalties on him otherwise, this pollutant will still be there. I think it's the state's job to solve this and then collect the money on them. It's your only option, and that's why we should find money on this line anyway, because it's just gonna work. Organisations performing waste management tasks are in a fundamentally catastrophic situation. The way we've said it a couple of times, the way you guys smashed up the waste management system, it's really unbelievable. It was a well-functioning system on which we managed to levy 6-7 taxes and other taxes, plus amounts to be paid, telephone tax, deposit charges, and then we look at the budget to see that less of the deposit fee is now expected, and now only 8 billion, because they are obviously faced with the fact that the waste companies can no longer pay, so they will not expect this amount to be paid. [[19.20]] And yes, this should be paid according to the amount of waste that comes together, but you have set up a system and put on them so much tax that you can't pay it, so you can't count on it in the budget. We have therefore also tabled an amendment to show that waste management companies need to be helped, and your mayors are likely to write this to you every week, because they tell us that this system is already unsustainable for them. Nearly 20 percent further reduce the support for nature conservation applications, and 350 million HUF less will be added to the conservation compensation. Building energy and energy efficiency targets disappear and the government spends less on coordinating public transport. Then let's look at the problem of tolls. My proposal for a decision, which I submitted a month and a half ago, was negotiated on the last day of the 30-day deadline in the Economic Committee, which, of course, was rejected, with the justification that you know this problem, but it will be solved in the big package, because you know that there are a lot of problems with the toll, and the government will solve it in a package. I've drawn your attention to the fact that between the categories D1 and D2, they made a serious difference, double what people have to pay. Anyone who didn't notice the change bought the wrong sticker and used it on the highway every day for 30 days, collected 450,000 forints in a month. After 60 days it will be mailed, according to the rules, after 60 days all penalties will arrive, which could be up to 900 thousand forints, if a motorist managed to miss this mistake for two months. Most motorists' cars aren't worth as much as they're supposed to pay in detention right now. From the salary a regular person today lives on, 900,000 forints is so far away that he wouldn't even get enough credit to pay for it. But you swept him down and said you'd figure it out. In my first emotion, I said that I wish to all Members who have swept this resolution proposal off the table, that anyone who is now being punished as such, until this problem is resolved by you, to those Members who receive it, because it is really only party loyalty that is important to you, and if an opposition Member presents a proposal that represents the interests of the people, it will also be swept off the table, just so that, in months' time, once they have time, they will resolve it. But you're not here to serve your friends, and when you have time, you're here to solve your little people's problems, and you're here to solve problems in packages that you've brought us with bad laws and bad rules and voted for with a two-thirds majority of them, but you're here to solve your little people's problems right away because there's nothing more important. Nothing could be more important to you than that. But I'm really not surprised that they won't let go of anything that would help people. I'd like to tell you two things quickly. The Secretary of State, András Aradszki, spoke with an accidental comment on job-producing taxes in Freud. We also hope that there are jobs-producing taxes, the smaller the number of jobs that are created. We are in favour of this, and we want as little taxes as possible, and then jobs might be created. We will be submitting a lot of amendments to this, but we need to reduce taxes that people can sense, such as reducing service VAT for utility companies. But they won't hear it, it doesn't matter. Finally, the last thing I have is the peaceful use of the nuclear power plant, as Secretary of State Aradski said. I very much hope that the nuclear power plant will always be used for peaceful purposes. We would be truly peaceful if this thing were professional, professionals could decide about it, and this investment would be transparent for us Hungarians and not for foreign managers. Thank you very much.
u2015-05-28-190	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Sándor Czomba applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot about employment here. Allow me to enrich today's debate with some figures. I will give you February-April 2010 and February-April 2015 data, as KSH has just released its latest data today. In 2010, 6 million 393 thousand people were employed, 4 million 141 thousand in 2015. The difference is 447 thousand. Of this, 60 thousand were employed in 2010 and 186 thousand in 2015 and the difference is 126 thousand. He worked abroad, what KSH sees: in 2010 46 thousand, in 2015 108 thousand, and in 2015 62 thousand. Thus the number of employees increased by 447 thousand, of which 126 thousand are explained by public works, 62 thousand are explained by the number of people working abroad, and 260 thousand have found their jobs in the competitive sphere over the past five years. The other, if you do not like this series, 2010 is a whole year and I would like to say 2014 year-round data to be professional. 2010 is a whole-year figure, with an employment figure of 3 million 730,000, 4 million 100 thousand in 2014, and the difference between the two is 370 thousand. Of which the public employed in 2010 is 75 thousand on average and 175 thousand in 2014 on average, so the difference is 100 thousand. In 2010 in migration 50 thousand, in 2014 100 thousand, the difference is 50 thousand. So the number of people employed increased by 370 thousand - I say in such a hurry that it will be possible to recall the data series of the HCSO, my fellow Members - of which 100 thousand are public, 50 thousand are migration, let us subtract the two: 220,000 people have found their jobs in the competitive sphere over the past four years. And I would like to say one more thing: Congresswoman Anita Heringes said that in public work you cannot have children. I would like to point out that by extending the use of the family tax allowance for three children in public employment, the fact is that the three-children get what they can receive in gross wages, i.e. more than 73 thousand forints. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-05-28-192	We will return to the contributions of the speakers who have been announced. Congresswoman Agnes Molnár is next, Fidesz. Here you go. I would like to ask the honourable Members and Members to listen to Ms Ágnes Molnár on matters as important as what has just been said. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-05-28-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Healthcare is one of the largest supply systems in the world, and Hungary is no exception, so it is a system whose change and development can only take decades or even decades in many areas. I think we can all be aware of that. Nevertheless, it doesn't matter how we begin to transform a system, how we strive to improve it. Unfortunately, our health system inherited five years ago was in a triple crisis, characterised by a public health crisis, a crisis in the care system and a crisis in human resources. We had to leave here. We knew very well that this trip was a very long one, but from 2010, along a consciously defined line, along the lines of the Semmelweis Plan and the sectoral legislation that we have created, we have progressed step by step and we have established the foundations of a new supply system. Firstly, in the area of public health, we have taken measures to lay the funds. We have taken systemic measures that you have not taken: to protect non-smokers, to reduce health-damaging foods, or in terms of our public health product tax, our transfat regulation and our new feed legislation. At the level of wage increases, we managed to raise the salaries of 95 thousand health workers in two steps, 2012 and 13, and we launched scholarships for our residents, which were so successful that 2500 young doctors participated in this residency program. In part, these measures have also led to the halting of the migration of young doctors since 2012. At the core supply level, we have set the main objective of building a strong basic supply system. We have initiated the launch of proposals to fill empty practices with support, encouraging doctors to open applications for empty practices. [[19.30]] Their funding has increased in several stages. Significant improvements have also been made in the sector, hospitals, clinics, emergency care, worth HUF 500 billion. The line could continue for a long time until the last amendment of the legislation, which was published in the last few days, allowing patients suspected of cancer to have an appointment for diagnostic tests within 14 days. We'll provide the resources for these. The Semmelweis plan was also joined in 2015 by a Sectoral Strategy for Healthy Hungary 2014-2020, which sets out a framework for health care based on public health, based on development, in order to strengthen the care system and increase the number of years of life in health. This approach must also be reflected in the country's budget. Today, we can say that we have a balanced health budget, where expenditure is the same as income, a budget with wage increases not built on loans, but on real resources. We have a budget where additional resources could be allocated to the most important objectives. Between 2002 and 2010, the health care system, the health register, was operated with a total deficit of 2000 billion, corresponding to the health budget for 2016. Of course, if we look at this year's 2015 budget, we can see that waiting list reduction programmes have been launched, with a surplus of HUF 6 billion being provided, which allowed the situation of 18 to 20 thousand patients to be resolved. Also this year, GPs receive HUF 10 billion in additional support to reduce their overhead costs. This represents a surplus of 130 thousand forints per month per practice. It is extremely important that the situation in hospitals is also improved in this year's budget. The government allocated HUF 60 billion of extra resources outside the real health budget to the sector in 2015 for the consolidation of debt. Just today, hospitals, hundreds of hospitals, received 60 billion dollars of the money needed to settle the debt. Among the priorities of the already mentioned Healthy Hungary 2014-2020 sectoral strategy are the strengthening of sectoral management, the strengthening of basic health care services, the renewal of public health services, the transformation of the system of specialist training, the maintenance of sectoral wage development, wage planning and the maintenance and extension of the residency support programme. Ladies and gentlemen, This approach is reflected in the 2016 budget bill and corresponding subsidies can be found. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by more than HUF 50 billion compared to 2015 and will not be withdrawn, and will increase by 50 billion. What is at least as important is that there will be nearly HUF 34 billion more money for curative-preventive benefits, i.e. for patient care directly next year compared to this year. This is a very important data, as it includes medical-preventive benefits, which include the support of GPs, nurses, pediatricians, rescues, clinics and hospitals. Compared to the health budget planned by the Socialist Government in 2010, healing-preventive benefits will receive 30 percent more money in 2016. As a reminder, in 2010 the socialists planned to operate the healing-preventive care in Hungary by 757 billion. At present, this healing-preventive supply source operates with HUF 982 billion in 2016. It must form and report a solid base of our basic supply system. Most doctor-patient meetings take place here, and the level of prevention and early detection of diseases is of paramount importance from a public health point of view. The numbers are not lying, so it is important to know where we stand after multiple increases in funding and resources specifically earmarked for the renewal of the system. In 2010, the Socialist Government planned a budget of 77.9 billion for general medical and general medical on-call care. Next year, this amount will continue to increase by 10 billion, and we will run the general medical system by HUF 117 billion in 2016. That's more than 50 percent increase. The amount allocated to the protection services has increased from 17.9 billion to 22.4 billion since 2010. That's a 25 percent increase. All in all, the government spends 40% more money on basic care compared to 2010. During all this time, during their eight-year government, the socialists spent a total increase of 24 per cent on basic care. Eight years! Moreover, in addition to budget surpluses, a separate bill has just been presented to Parliament on the development of basic supply. This continues and continues to confirm our conviction that the transformation of the health care system should start by strengthening basic care. That is why we consider it necessary to regulate the operating conditions of the system in the Basic Supply Act. Emergency care: there are also serious results in the area of emergency care. Compared to this year, 2.5 billion more money will be saved next year, of which about a hundred new ambulances will be able to be put into service compared to the 300 ambulances planned so far. There will also be a source of the new rescue management system. Compared to 2010, 31 percent more money will be saved next year, nearly HUF 30 billion more will be saved, and an additional HUF 11 million will be spent from EU funds to strengthen the operation. The development of machinery parks is also taking place in line with international trends, and we are all trying to improve the 15-minute landing rate agreed across Europe. We are all aware that the most important pillar of our health system may be doctors and nurses who are doing their best work in clinics and hospitals every day in order to heal. It's a government's job to acknowledge this work. Wage increases in recent years are also part of next year's budget. In 2016 HUF 53.5 billion is available to cover the wage development of nearly 100,000 healthcare workers. The HUF 15.3 billion, which serves a double purpose, contributes to this. On the one hand, it will be ensured that earlier wage increases can also form the basis for so-called mobile wage, which was an old request for workers in the sector. On the other hand, there is an additional HUF 2.5 billion to support our young specialists in order to receive the same support after obtaining their exams as in their residency years with the scholarship. [[19.40]] If we add that the budget includes an additional HUF 3 billion surplus for the operation of the residency system, and additional HUF 3.7 billion for the extension of scholarships and other support related to vocational training, we can say that we have also managed to move forward in order to improve the financial situation of health care workers. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, in the case of wages and an overview of the overall budget, the question arises whether this is enough. I thought it was important for us to be clear, so I told you how progress has been shown in a number of key areas step by step. Of course, we are not yet at the end of the trip, I am aware of that, we will need more, but we can be confident that the direction is right, the trend is positive, and accordingly I think that important steps in conscious, future-oriented construction will also be shown in the 2016 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-194	Thank you very much. We will continue with the contributions of the speakers announced in advance. Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik, next. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, I would briefly respond to what Congressman István Happy said, which, if I was paying close attention, he thought and meant that, given that they are the majority, and they are the responsible majority, as he said, they are right, and he thought that all the fiscal amendments that were coming in from the opposition were irresponsible promises. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are going to draw a false conclusion from false premises, since - do not be mistaken in this position. - he told his family what his child was saying and what they were talking about. If the majority, the boy child, and the father want to play football, it does not mean that their wife is wrong about wanting to go on a trip, and the trip is also a useful time. We must not think in a simplistic way, there are indeed - and my contribution will prove this - responsible budgetary amendments from the opposition, and in this context we must be inclusive. I started last year's debate on last year's budget and last year's budget by describing the space that lies between us, whether between the opposition or the pro-government, as a magical river, on one side of which everything is wonderful and everything is fine, and on the other side everything appears only in negative colour. It seems that this river has not changed much, but the mood has changed a little on your side, because not only are they on the other side of such a river, but you share a landscape of fairies, visions and false images, which, I believe, are a little out of touch with reality. Your illusions prevent you from realizing that the nurse's spring is in health care, preventing you from realizing that the exodus is taking place, and beyond that, most of the patients are slowly unaccounted for, I will give you a very simple, meaningful example: we are not sewing the button to the coat, but the patients' stomach is used to sewing the button, waiting lists, but we can also clearly say that hospital debt is becoming unmanageable, even if Congressman Ágnes Molnár has just announced that these debts will be paid today. By the way, Secretary of State Gábor Zombor has announced this four times so far, when this is going to happen, I look forward to seeing if this has actually happened. [[Dr. Ágnes Molnár: Yes, he has already appeared.]] We'll be watching the media and watching the news on this. What is primary and important, and I regret that the only Secretary of State from the Ministry of National Economy may be Czomba, but it is very important, and you must hear this message that good day, Ministry of National Economy, good morning, Ministry of National Economy, good morning, Secretary of State, we have a very big problem, it is time to wake up from illusions. We have to start with a conceptual problem with the draft budget for next year, which is that we still do not know the implementation of the 2015 budget for health, and we still do not know whether the debt settlement is actually going to happen, and how much it will be, and how much it will be enough when, according to the data of the Hungarian Treasury, health institutions now have a debt of 85 billion and the government wants to pay 60 billion - I still say that they want to pay because feedback and confirmations are required. But there's a problem, and it's obvious that we don't know if the waiting list has dropped or how much the waiting list has fallen. There is already data on it, but that is why we need to move forward in the 2015 budget, see the number of corners of its implementation, and then we can talk crediblely and calmly about the 2016 budget. But we can say the same for the first-stage development of basic care. It is also a very big problem, as you have said, that stability has made this situation possible. I believe that this stability in the health sector is nothing more than a stable bed of health. It just doesn't go away, it's just that he's still on his feet, and that's why you're not responsible for the fact that he's on his feet, but the people who work in it. But we could also say in style that they said that everyone can move one step further, that health care is taking a step towards the gap, if we do not take the lines, on the roads that Jobbik and the workers themselves have outlined. We can also say that and look at the budget with a health perspective, set up a diagnosis, see what kind of children's diseases are, what kind of diagnosis, what challenges we have, and see what answers we can give to this vision later. Basically, the budgetary conceptual error is seen by the fact that there is still insufficient, insufficient resources in the budget that we are spending on health, although the fact that there is still 2.6 percent more money on the E Fund or the E Fund than before should be taken into account, so there is indeed a trend of which more can be managed. But by the time this 2.6 percent is enough, it shows that in a year or nearly a year, the population of hospital debts has increased by 50 percent, and the delays that health care is struggling with are increasing. I mentioned that we are talking about 85.5 billion in hospital debt, in which we now intend to add 60 billion, but these are being regenerated, and unfortunately, the former are being regenerated more rapidly than in previous years. It is very difficult to decipher in the budget - and this is also a conceptual error - the amounts allocated to wage development. Here it was said that the E Fund had a target of 16 billion, followed by 15 billion, and now it turns out that it is 15.1 billion, and it also turns out that this will not affect all employees, for example, but will be nearly HUF 9900 gross help for nearly 45,000 employees, which will not be included in the basic wage. So it is safe to say in the sights that there are a lot of serious challenges, there are a lot of serious problems, for example, I could spend a little more on health workers immediately, and no, say, on EMMI, the Ministry itself, with a HUF 3.2 billion increase in personnel expenditure, we spend so much more on the state apparatus in this respect. But they said that the background institutions are also needed in the change of structure to manage a little more economically, compared to this, your GYEMSZI-jurist ÁEK, in addition to remaining in addition to the State Health Care Center, other bodies, will still receive HUF 1.3 billion more to carry out their tasks. I believe that this is also an issue where it would be worth considering, for example, what is involved in structural change in the background institutions. Or here is the big mystery question: we have set aside HUF 1 billion for the design of the large hospital in Budapest, if such a large hospital in Budapest is needed, and it would not be necessary for Budapest to provide a much more distributed supply of a large hospital with three or four pillars. But I do not dispute those in which the government wanted to help: 800 million can also be very useful; in the field of medical aid, the 3.1 billion HUF supplement, which has been called for for for a very long time, can be useful, provided that if we can finally modify it so that the tools that people really need are included in it earlier. It is a pity that Péter Benő Banai has left, because he could have been asked questions that I wrote to myself everywhere: where is the money, where is the money? Also the $60 billion reduction in hospital debt, if we want to continue next year, where is the money for this? Where is the $75 billion surplus of structural change for OEP, which has been marked? The total increase of HUF 3.4 billion in combined specialised care is only 0.5 percent, so we can also say that the resources they provide are not sufficient in summing up, and we can see in sight that the coverage that health needs is not enough. Of course, there are small, subtle adjustments that point in the right direction, but there is still a need not only to improve basic care but also to improve all specialised services. [[19.50]] In the proposed therapy, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary submitted and has now submitted proposals for amendments to make large or small adjustments. A greater adjustment would be to raise the supply amounts already expected for a very, very long time from basically 145-150 thousand forints to 180 thousand forints. It'll also contain this. The first step to launch the health career model will also be included in our amendment. There will also be a special motion to prevent hospital debt, in which it can be spent by HUF 30 billion even above them. But Jobbik also listens to civil society organisations that complement the state's activities, such as the Hungarian Anti-Crab League, such as the Mályvavirág Foundation's fight against cervical cancer, civil society organisations whose support has been forgotten by the government for years or some minimal support will also be increased. Jobbik, by the way, considers health care to be particularly important, which is why beyond what the Action Alliance has asked for, and otherwise we believe that it can be achieved elsewhere, 120 billion forints must go to immediate wage development. From now on Jobbik has found budgetary resources, you can safely say, the nearly HUF 450 billion that can be transferred calmly by keeping the tax reduction. But this HUF 450 billion will be available for the health improvements that we have planned, because after the twenty-fourth hour, health care is due, and believe what you said, that if you take one step forward and one more step forward, you will fall into the ravine. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-196	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. Congressman Dániel Z. Karpat is the first, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-197	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member Gergely Kulcsár pointed out very well that Hungarians are in the midst of three huge problems at the moment. The so-called immigration, the refugee issue, is just one of them. But while the Viktors Orbáns point to Brussels, they do not do what they can do under their own authority. The restoration of the independent border guard is such a category, since Brussels should not be allowed to interfere with this, it would be your duty. We are the only country with a Schengen border that has no independent border guards in this community. We also need to say that it is their legal duty to protect the Hungarian border, where those who come from real persecution and who have a dog duty to help, but also those who are the vast majority of economic immigrants who come here in order to connect to the social system, who, in our view, we do not have a duty to help and do not have to do anything. However, it can be said that the issue of immigration, the refugee issue, which is the case in two separate categories, is mismanaged by the government, pointing outwards, fails to act. We have to declare the Debrecen refugee shelter closed, but they don't say anything specific about it, they just promise. On the other hand, according to the papers, the institution that Viktor Orbán promised to close will be extended by 140 million HUF. Why don't you guys explain to me how it's done? So once again, the treatment of immigration, refugee issues, you have completely screwed up. It's one of the three presses. The second is emigration, which, at the moment, weighs on Hungarians much more than the issue of immigration. Here they try to clown for 50-60 Hungarian young people from 100 million forints, instead of starting a home creation program from much more than that. The most serious problem, however, is that they do not recognize the third press, and this is the amazing untenable situation of the Hungarian population loss, where they could only achieve a shift within the statistical margin of error, which should be the subject of all their budgetary decisions. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-198	Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2015-05-28-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to a happy fellow Member, István, in connection with the M4. Mr President, the Commission has raised serious technical objections to the preparation of the construction. You now know this, and there is no cartel suspicion in the Commission's report. This is not in the Commission's file, and in spring 2014 the EU requested an amendment from the Government, which led to the withdrawal of the aid application for Section M4 in autumn 2014 and to the conclusion of the 110 billion budget for 160 billion in December 2014. They were gonna steal this 50 billion forints, you know? ! And they kept lying to the Hungarian people and cheating the people of East Hungary. Besides, János Lázár announced that they wanted to recover 20 billion forints from the 40 billion spent, so out of the 60 billion, you can say that 20 more have been stolen. John Lazarus already knows that. [[Sándor Font: You'll have to prove that.]] And do you know, on the other hand, how much do you spend on children's meals, social meals? 3 billion forints. They were gonna whine about 20 years of baby food money. And you're gonna come up with something with reduced technical content? Well, there's a 60-billion-dollar torso, and they're gonna tell people in East Hungary that they're gonna figure this out. You shouldn't have lied for two years, you know? ! And constantly deceiving the people of East Hungary! And now he's coming for me to calm down? I think you guys should try to relax, because sooner or later, this is gonna have very serious consequences. It is a very serious consequence that this country will finally get to hold you accountable.
u2015-05-28-200	We will return to the list of speakers that have been announced. Congressman Sándor Hadházy is next, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Politics requires a climate of confidence, and I think that it is important for all politicians to appear reliable and predictable. During the last period, say between 2002 and 2010, during the budget debate, the current finance minister has always said what budget deficits he is expecting and what macroeconomic indicators should be taken into account. It wasn't really that exciting until 2004 when we became a member of the Union, and it started to work out so nicely that at first the European Union warned the country to comply with EU standards and to keep the deficit below 3 percent. This was promised every year, but it has not been observed in a single year. This could be mentioned in itself as such a small circumstance, but the fact is that this has resulted in a steady decline in the confidence of financial institutions financing the country, and this loss of confidence has been reflected in the rise in interest rates and the increase in loans. After that, the country was able to finance its operation only through more expensive and expensive loans. After 2010, the same political community, particularly the socialists, came forward during the budgetary debate that the deficit of the budget submitted by the Fidesz government could not be maintained. Among other things, the number of deficits, but there was communication at all about the fact that the whole budget was wrong. But the last five years have proved that we managed to keep the deficit below 3 percent for five years. This is extremely important for us, because we can say with conviction that the budget is planned at an appropriate level of professionalism, and I believe that is the case now. It was therefore a little strange that I met these views on the socialist side today, claiming that the planned budget deficit would not stop and that it would be more than 3 percent at the end of the year. I would like us to continue this debate in the future with the same uppercut in the future. Dear Parliament, After 11 April 2010, on several occasions at the Group meetings, we had very serious debates on how to lead the country out of this very deep crisis. We've got systems one in order. We have looked at the state of the administration and found that it works with very poor efficiency and is very expensive, and it also makes the lives of entrepreneurs and citizens miserable. [[20.00]] We went to public school. We also found that it works with poor efficiency and very expensive. In addition, public education was handed over to municipalities, and the municipalities have accumulated debts over the last 20 years, because this lack of public education, which the state produced and passed on to municipalities, had to be financed. We have encountered the same problems in the field of health and in other areas of society. One thought started, and we saw a complete transformation of the municipal system as a means of achieving it. This includes, of course, the need to fundamentally rethink tasks and competences and to significantly reduce tasks. As a result, the tasks of the municipalities and, as appropriate, the burden of the municipalities have also been significantly reduced. We have come to the point that in 2013 we were able to talk about the need to get clean cards and create a new budgetary situation for municipalities. The process of debt consolidation is underway. As a result, the debt accumulated by the municipalities for 20 years was taken over by the State. We have now, in effect, come to the point where the municipalities can start thinking again, and, of course, they also need to take into account the resources they can use to achieve the goals and tasks. Well, in 2016, the management of municipalities will be about HUF 2500 billion, of which the state budget will be expected to contribute HUF 661 billion, while the rest will have to be produced locally from the operating incomes of the institutions and from local taxes, of course. This is an extremely important issue here, because it is related to the government's other intentions, namely the government's determined intention to strengthen Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, to stabilise their position in order to contribute more to the state budget on the one hand, and to carry out and distribute tax, so that the tax liability per enterprise or per capita can be set at a lower rate. However, in order for this process to start, it is not only the State that has to participate in this process, it is not only the State that can expect it to propose tax reductions to Parliament or to support the start-up or operation of certain businesses with the budget, but also a good cooperation between the entrepreneurial layer and the municipal authorities. 'Cause the thing is, there are a lot of settlements where this relationship has gone bad. Some municipalities believe that it is the business's job to pay the tax, and the entrepreneur's view is that the municipality spends this tax for purposes that do not help its activities. On the one hand, this cooperation is intended for the EU support system and I am pleased that, in the next seven years' budget cycle, small and medium-sized enterprises will benefit from more than 50% of this support, but it is extremely important that this resource finds the entrepreneur in an environment where he can expand his activities. It is therefore extremely important that municipalities draw up and implement municipal development programmes that can be integrated into this process. I believe that the government will support this process by, on the one hand, giving local authorities self-strengthening in the use of EU proposals, eating it earlier, doing so in the future, and, on the other hand, where EU funds cannot be used, for example, unfortunately, the central region, where we hope to finance the tasks that are absolutely necessary and urgent. Dear Parliament, The budget presented points in this direction, which is why I welcome this process, and I would like to ask you with respect to support the budget submitted. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-202	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have already made numerous mistakes and criticisms about next year's budget, but we cannot go without saying that the early forced adoption of the 2016 budget causes many problems, while it does not bring any tangible benefits to the country or to the Hungarian population. Even though the Prime Minister says it's going to make us more competitive, he's obviously referring to predictability. We also remember that at the 2012 budget hearing, the budget was adopted early, the law had to be amended seven more times, but the budget budget that followed had to be amended several times. That's all, but not predictability. However, they also did not think that their sudden idea would lead to an inability situation in many sectors. For example, in sport that is so supported by the government, sports associations are forced to break the law. The Sport Act provides that each association must prepare its financing plan for next year by 15 June, which will then be sent to the Hungarian Olympic Committee, and the Committee will forward the single plan to the Minister of National Economy by the end of June. The law is strict because there can be no state aid for an association which does not fulfil its obligation by deadline. But how can you do that when the country has a long-established budget when the deadline has not yet expired. This means that the budget is now being prepared without the associations or the Hungarian Olympic Committee being able to deliver an opinion on the budget. And when it comes to payback, you're gonna have to step on the sports bill. As explained above, no sports association could receive State aid. By the way, according to press reports, at least half of the sports associations have not fulfilled this obligation in the last three years, but they have nevertheless received state aid because neither the committee nor the Ministry has dealt with this matter. In addition, it can be said that the Hungarian Football Association did not submit professional plans at all every year until 15 June, yet it received high-profile state aid, mainly large amounts of re-supply, which will remain next year. There is no cooperation between the Olympic Committee and the Football Federation in this area. Dear Parliament, There's a rush in the government. You're crossing your own rules. In areas that are kind to him, he tolerates and even supports violations beyond a hundred billion, while elsewhere he does not tolerate the slightest violation. [[20.10]] I would like to ask the representatives of the government: how is that possible? Who's responsible for this? Will order be restored, or will we give you more billions of dollars next year? Neither do I, but the Hungarian Socialist Party is not against sport, we ask that these rates be respected in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-05-28-204	Thank you very much. Mr László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, is next. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-205	Mr President, Dear House, As a member of the Legislative Committee, as a lawyer, I would like to talk primarily about the government's judicial policy in the context of the draft budget for 2016. Regulation (EC) No 1710/2014 on judicial policy By adopting a government decision, the Government has defined the main principles which are also set out in the objectives of the judicial portfolio. The proposal for a decision declares that, in the field of enforcing fundamental rights, it is necessary to take into account that individual and Community interests are in line, that the principle of constitutionality should prevail in the preparation of the legislation, that public confidence in the wider justice system should be strengthened, that the requirement for a fair procedure laid down in the Fundamental Law should not only apply to the fairness, publicity and reasonable time limits of the procedure, but that the requirement for the fairness of the decision should be unquestioned. It is necessary to increase the level of legal training, to protect the legal profession and to increase the legal identity. Effective representation of national interests should be strengthened within the framework of European cooperation. It is necessary to facilitate effective cooperation and continued contacts with the judicial system. I am pleased to see that Chapter X of the budget submitted is fully in line with the objectives adopted and ensures a proper financial background in order to give effect to them. I would particularly like to highlight the budget allocation for the functioning of the Justice Office. The central budget supports the organisation from the Administrative and Judicial Office with more than one billion HUF, and also accounts for nearly 600 million in revenue as expenditure cover. From the budget of nearly 1.7 billion people, you need to carry out your task of victim support and patronage and provide legal assistance. In addition, the Office has compensation tasks. He manages tasks related to independent judicial executives and carries out work on the Law Academy of the Judicial Services. I consider it particularly important to have a new task for independent judicial executives. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: In accordance with the Government Decree, the Office shall carry out investigations to verify the administration, the functioning and the conduct of independent judicial executives and the conduct of such investigations, and in accordance with Article 3/2015. Monitoring of complaints and recording of disciplinary proceedings against an independent judicial enforcement measure under the IM Regulation. I trust that these provisions will contribute to the restoration of public confidence and the conduct of fair enforcement procedures, which is in the interest of both the debtor and the creditor. The Legal academy of those Judicial Services shall, in the interests of effective justice, facilitate the uniform application of the law of territorial judicial service providers and other legal services directly linked to the judiciary, such as executives, judicial experts, mediators, liquidators, family bankrupts. An adequate scientific background is essential for achieving judicial policy objectives, including increasing public confidence in justice. That is why I consider it important to finance the Institutes of Judicial Experts and Research, which, although slightly above support in 2015. Finally, let me highlight the support for programmes aimed at improving the quality of legal training, which is very close to my heart. The programme could be the beginning of a reform that has been postponed for a long time. The functioning of the state, the reliability of justice, will be greatly shaped by future lawyers. The Government's decision is therefore particularly justified, on the basis of which the rules on the use of aid to facilitate the development of the content of legal training should be drawn up, and the preparation of the implementation of other proposals in the analytical part of the proposal should also be started, so that a proposal for the specialisation of legal universities should be drawn up. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. It also provides cover for expenditure on scholarships awarded to students in rural law. I believe that the 2016 budget will not only ensure the functioning of the various segments of justice in Hungary, but also increase its quality by reaching higher targets not only in the short but also in the long term. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-206	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The next minute is the 19th. I would like to present the position of the Jobbik Group in connection with the development of the EU and the use of EU funds, but before I do so, I would like to clarify some of the groundwork on our relationship with the European Union. What Jobbik would consider most important is the amendment of our Accession Treaty to certain points, in particular as regards the provision of our food self-determination, the protection of our agricultural land, which has always been highlighted in our programme and in our parliamentary speeches. But we also consider it essential that, if there has been a very serious debate on this matter in Britain now, we should also raise the issue of the introduction of the red-sheet procedure, as I would like to remind the Parliament that, when, for example, the Hungarian Parliament, for example, the Committee on European Affairs has been using a yellow-sheet procedure on the matter of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and a number of other Member States have also done so, there has not been any substantive consequences, and then there has been a long lobbying activity to make at least some movement on this issue, although I would add that Jobbik is still strongly rejecting the concept itself. But if I have already brought up the example raised by the British, I would also like to mention that we would have proposals at the expense of the British, as we believe that it is completely unacceptable for our national self-determination that, for many decades, the British correction has been pressing its stamp on the Hungarian budget and greatly restricting our room for manoeuvre. So we also consider it necessary to bring up this renegotiation in the relevant international fora, in the European Parliament and in every place where we can do this with our own instruments, and to urge the government to take real action in this respect. In particular, the 19th edition. In the context of the chapter, where EU developments are included, it is important to see that only the programmes for the period 2014-2020 can be seen here, since the deadline for payment is 31 December 2015 in accordance with the n+2 rule, while the revenue allocation for this year was HUF 1725 billion, until next year, 2016, only HUF 862 billion will be here. I have also said in my speeches over the last few years that, when this issue was on the table, we felt that the amounts that appeared here were too ambitious, and unfortunately, in every case it was proved that we were right, because every year there were serious differences between the appropriations and the performance. [[20.20]] Thus, in terms of both this year and next year, we can see that we can only use a significant part of the available funds at a tight pace, and it is certain that the government's commitment to do so will not be fulfilled, as regards the fact that no money will be stuck in the previous 2007-2013 cycle. Last year I went through the operational programmes in particular from an approach to how we are in terms of payments, and indeed we found some of the largest operational programmes where there were very serious delays. More importantly, over the past years, we have seen that we have so often spent resources on unnecessary investments, there has been a haste in this area, and if we look back on the decade that has passed since our accession to the European Union, we can see that we have spent a significant amount of resources on programmes with poor efficiency and low results in the long term. These funds were not spent on economic recovery or job creation, but on prestige investments. Now we can hear the magic 60% from the government side on a number of occasions for the 2014-2020 cycle, which means that we want to spend so much of the available money on economic development. For our part, we can promise that we will follow this process, because economic recovery would mean spending these money on long-term investments with a lasting impact, and much more efficiently and targeted than it was in the decade behind us. The focus should therefore be on job-creating, employment-enhancing investments, and it would be of particular importance for small and medium-sized enterprises, the SME sector, to be able to benefit from the aid in an appropriate way. Dear Parliament, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that from the government side we have also heard a success propaganda about Hungary's achievements in the area of cohesion resources. Unfortunately, the situation is far less positive because the money we have has decreased by 20 percent, and EUR 20.6 billion instead of EUR 25.7 billion is available in this way between 2014 and 20, which, of course, must be added in the spirit of fairness. [[Dr. István Józsa: In Forint!]] that we can meet a higher amount than the previous figures. However, it was a lower amount in advance for the negotiations, but yes, indeed, here with HUF and with this the government was trying to trick how the conversion would happen. So this success propaganda is completely bogus from the government side. It would be of particular importance that the areas of innovation and R &amp; D should be adequately reflected in the various programmes, since we are very much below the EU average, and this is particularly true for small and medium-sized enterprises. By 2020, in the context of the Europe 2020 strategy, we have set ourselves a target of 1.8 per cent, with a target of 3 per cent at EU level. Of course, it should be said that a significant proportion of the EU Member States are still far behind, but if we look at how far we are below the EU average of 30% in the SME sector, which concerns the extent to which small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses are engaged in their own innovation activities, then we must say that we still have plenty of work to do in this area. Progress has been made over the past years, but we cannot yet talk about a breakthrough that we have also heard here at the success propaganda level from Fidesz-KDNP. With regard to innovative companies, it is important to say that they are able to increase their number of employees on the basis of research, which is particularly true for the SME sector, so that value-creating jobs could be created if a significant proportion of the resources were grouped here. There is also a great possibility that the amount available for R &amp; D and innovation will be HUF 700 billion in these seven years, which is approximately two and a half times higher than that of the 2007-2013 cycle. So it would be extremely important for us to be able to use this opportunity to promote our competitiveness. And I can trust myself that, instead of the economic operational programme, the name of the operational programme for economic development and innovation will appear not only in its name, but also in its content, we will see that we can really move in this direction and that this area will be given sufficient emphasis over the coming years. I would like to draw attention to an important problem here, in our county, Vas county, it also affects a lot of settlements, small settlements, settlements under 2 thousand people, and this is a question of sewage disposal. In the past, the Committee on European Affairs discussed how this could be ensured, but the State Secretary responsible did not give an overly positive answer to this question. He said that if they did, they would try to pay attention to it. I would ask the government to really take this into account, because this is a problem in many places, not only in my county, but in countless parts of the country. We have already heard a speech in this regard today. Returning to businesses, what is particularly important for them, is to ensure a reliable and stable environment, as opposed to what we have seen during the Fidesz administration, that in many cases Hungarian companies have had to face sudden decision-driven measures. We need predictability and planning in this area. In the context of the proposals, which we will pay particular attention to, it is that corruption-suspected applications should not appear to such a significant extent, because unfortunately, it must be said that not only during the time of the socialists' governance, but also during the years left behind, they have been put at the heart of the interest of the media, since only a very small circle of funds could be obtained. The new public procurement law is now in front of Parliament, to which Jobbik will put its relevant professional proposals on the table, and we will ask the politicians of Fidesz-KDNP to take account of the promises made in the context of the promotion of transparency and in this context. What I would like to say at the end of my speech is that, in recent times, it has been mentioned very often that their hands have been tied, and their room for manoeuvre has been limited, since the foundations of the 2007-13 period have been laid by the previous socialist-free democrat governments, and in this way it has not been possible to change points in substance. On the other hand, a cycle has now started for the seven-year cycle 2014-2020, which will be established by Fidesz, and it does not matter at all how, if a new government arrives and the Jobbik government will have to move within a given framework, or from the perspective of the country, which I consider even more important, how this period begins, how the proposals will be issued and how the funds will be allocated. I therefore ask that we be kept informed, both in the Committee on European Affairs and, where appropriate, in plenary, of each operational programme. I would like to add that we can talk about a certain positive shift compared to the previous four years in such a way that the information is made more regularly at Commission level, although this is only after I suggested at the beginning of the cycle that, if we are talking about the Committee on European Affairs, it would be good to have a good view of this, and fortunately, at least in this direction. What I would like to point out, however, is that if we look back at this for more than ten years now, we can see that the overall picture is not as positive as we can hear in many cases, because if we put the indirect effects on the balance, then we have not come out of this process positively. That is why we would consider it essential to initiate, in substance, not only at the level of words, and not only on certain issues that are important to Fidesz from an actual political point of view, but also on matters that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, a substantive amendment of the Accession Treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-05-28-208	Thank you, too. It's a two-minute lap. First of all, Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-05-28-209	Mr President, Dear House, When I asked for the possibility of a two-minute response, the budget for the tax reduction has been given for many times today, on which we have to note that one third of next year's central budget revenue comes from VAT payments, here we are thinking of 27 percent VAT on the EU record, and together with the other taxes linked to consumption, HUF 4612 billion is the sum of consumption-type taxes, which ensures 45 percent of the income expectations of the central budget. If we add everything up, it turns out that according to the bill, not according to my opinion, but according to your paper package, the financial resources from here will increase by HUF 215 billion in total next year. [[20.30]] Thus, the government has so much more expectation of these types of taxes at revenue level. After that, the budget for tax reductions, which is worth hundreds of billions of dollars in the order of the previous year's income expectations, even in spite of the alleged facilitations and concessions, is quite amazing. But to give you a more specific example. I am very much in favour of a 1% reduction in personal income tax, I am not a back-up fan, I think it is an important step, and I even say that social groups in difficulty should be given much greater concessions. But how is it that, while you are campaigning for a 1% cut, according to this budget, all revenue from personal income tax is still increasing, from 1640 billion to 1658 billion? I understand that there are spill-over effects, there are effects on different tax bases, you may expect that the 50 to 100 thousand competitive jobs created over five years will still be hit by a few more people, perhaps paying taxes, but how is it that, despite your apparent concession, they are expected to increase their income expectations for almost all types of taxes, so that Hungarian people are more burdened than before? This calls for an answer. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-210	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, in two minutes.
u2015-05-28-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would respond to the increase in wages in the social sector, since it was the last wage increase in the social sector in 2008 and, in essence, the introduction of a replacement wage was due to the fact that the minimum wage for workers in this sector was not reached. But one thing must be clarified: the wage substitute does not belong to the basic payment, and the government should finally get to the point where people are incorporating this wage supplement into their basic payment, because that would be the most important. 'Cause if there's a proper wage increase in the social sector at some point, the extra wage will not count against the wage increase in the basic salary. These people will be double-crossed. And I understand that 7.5 billion forints will now be planned compared to 15, although it was announced again yesterday, they promised to have the 15 billion forints next year, only to understand, in this sector the average salary will be 71 thousand forints net, while in others 155 thousand forints. That's not much of an average salary either, but let's see, it's not even half that. So you can point it back here for the last eight years, but Mihály Varga himself said, and we've heard several times in the budget debate that the economy is perfectly fine, here everything is fine, the Secretary of State for Development said that first we should put something on the table, make suggestions. So we propose: give a salary increase in this sector so that it is not a wage substitute, but a normal wage development for the sector. That's all I'm asking, Mr. Secretary of State, to beat this through the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-05-28-212	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Preliminary speakers will follow. Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to say a few words about the budget for the field of higher education and science. As a whole, if we look at the figures, we see an increase of some 3.4 percent. In summary, this is a surplus of 6.5 billion, rounded up. Of course, these areas do not benefit from the same proportion. If we look at the percentage increases, then we see what Mr Szávay noted in a much earlier speech that he does not see very much cross-border amounts, well, in the most part, the support of higher education tasks across borders and the support of Hungarian higher education institutions across borders is increasing, in the first case it is 14.2 and in the other case it is a 20 percent increase. In the framework of state higher education, which can be detected compared to this year's framework, it is about HUF 789.1 million. This obviously does not seem to be too big overall; this amount, moreover, applies in particular to the financing of public education tasks in public education institutions maintained by higher education institutions, obviously linked to the costs of introducing a pedagogical career, the resource requirements for teacher ratings and the surplus for child feeding, as many higher education institutions maintain schools and the budget of these schools should be planned within the budget of higher education. Non-state higher education institutions also have an increase resulting from the same logic. These have, of course, been established in the spirit of the Vatican Agreement and on the basis of its legal requirements. However, excellence grants show a welcome increase: in 2015, this year it is HUF 9850 million and in 2016 it is HUF 12 044 million. This means that the rate of excellence grants to higher education institutions will increase by more than HUF 2 billion. There is also a significant increase in the framework for the management of higher education assets. That's over 5 billion forints. Even before we are very happy about how good this is, it is good to see that it is again linked to the eradication of a very serious and bitter heritage: the higher education sector is being used to replace a PPP scheme that is not or is only partly used for higher education purposes. These inheritances were left to us by the governments before 2010. Support for international bilateral relations and training programmes will continue, and there is also a 3.2 percent increase, which I believe is fortunate and pleasant. If we look at the budget of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, we see that we are essentially meeting the figures of this year, and there is a lot that appears as a serious deficit at first glance: minus HUF 2.4 billion. Even before anyone thinks that the complete dismantling of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences would take place, it is good to know that it is simply about the completion of the construction of the new Research Centre for Humanities, and this item was previously designed for this, as it is completed, and is not included in the additional budget. R &amp; D, a framework for scientific research and development, which is designed for the National Innovation Office, seems quite impressive at first, but it is difficult to say the specific proportions here, since this includes foreign sources, which are also available for EU funding. If we try to sum them up, we see the following: the budget of the National Research and Development Fund for 2016 could be nearly HUF 80 billion from domestic sources, with a budget of HUF 78.9 billion. GINOP and VEKOP, which is also included as a source, are the EU's resources, with an annual average of 105 billion per year for GINOP and an annual average of 7 billion per year for VEKOP. Obviously, the distribution of these will never be so proportionate, since the characteristics and characteristics of applications are always that they are so clearly difficult to shoot in this regard. Nevertheless, they seem encouraging, and I wish all the applicants who are pushing for these funds good luck. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-214	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! They can draw numbers from year to year here in the budget that are forward-looking and positive - that's what the government is supposed to do - and I'm sure they do. It would be weird if, after previous socialist governance and after a global economic crisis, they couldn't draw figures that would be forward-looking. At the same time, where the situation has certainly not changed substantially, the fate of the countryside and its ability to preserve the countryside, I would like to share some of these thoughts with you. I am in the fifth budget debate, if I count correctly, and in each of these budget debates you will tell me that the next year will now be a year of kick-off, development and huge progress. Unfortunately, they can repeat this every year, because in reality they do not happen, at least in a very moderate way. And as I mentioned, this is particularly exponentially true of the situation in the countryside. [[20.40]] Now I deliberately mention not only agriculture or agriculture, because here there is a fundamental difference between your perception and our understanding. For example, when we discussed in the Committee on Agriculture over the last few months that they would be kind enough to have their own strategy, their own strategy, which had previously been adopted and intended to be implemented at the government meeting, the national rural strategy before the House, you argued that it was not necessary to bring this to the House in part because everything is taking place at the right pace, and that by 2020 - as this strategy has already been undertaken - those improvements and progress will indeed take place. However, we are in a very different position, and at a number of points we have been able to demonstrate why they are wrong and why the national rural strategy needs to be brought forward and brought here again. I am only saying this in the debate on the budget because we tabled and tabled a series of amendments that serve precisely to keep your promises before 2010. In this way, I think that they should be particularly positive about these amendments, because in many cases I have done nothing but try to implement the fundamentals set out in the Constitution of the countryside with these amendments. When I said that there is a conceptual difference between the two of us in this area, I thought that agriculture means the 15-20 thousand farmers or kft., who are doing quite well in Hungary today, and I am glad that it is going well, continue to work for the country and its workers, so continue to do so. My problem is that this has little impact on the more than 7 million people who live, let's say, in a close sense, in the Hungarian countryside, and their lives are not affected by this 15-20 thousand well-run farmers at all, at least minimally. I am thinking that Hungarian agriculture has been reduced to a state where we are talking about basically production of industrial raw materials, and for those who now have these well-equipped economies, with an adequate size of land, proper mechanization, they cannot - they do not want, they are not willing - create jobs in sufficient quantities in the countryside. And I do not mean, of course, the basic activity, because the possibilities are limited, but the manufacturing industry and all the rural jobs based on it are very, very lacking. As I said, I also tabled amendments to these amendments. I also wanted to provide the Agricultural Research Institute and the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre with a little budget expansion, a little extra opportunity, I think that both institutions are doing a very good job, and such an agricultural centre... - or at least we hope that the country will start in that direction, but in a country with such gifts, both institutions would definitely need a greater degree of budget support. The materials that they have developed and made available to the Committee on Agriculture or otherwise have proved to be of sufficient quality work in these institutions. It would be nice if the government took them more seriously. I know that this is obviously a budgetary issue, how much they can devote to this, but I definitely think it is worth paying more attention to this. The genetic conservation facilities are also mentioned here every year, within the walls of the House. Hungarian animal and plant breeding has such values... - it also had in the past, but unfortunately, many of them are already dying out, and without state aid, they simply cannot be maintained, because in these economic circumstances we have not yet found a way to maintain them on a purely market basis. There are complaints from such genetic preservation institutions and individuals that, indeed, public engagement would be more necessary, otherwise a number of types could be put at risk. We also think about Hungaricums in the same way. We were very pleased to have the Hungaricum Committee and the entire institutional system in place, which makes this possible. At the same time, we would like to ensure that this work with more serious resources accelerates, becomes more professional, and who can extend its powers to areas that are not yet possible. I have also proposed a small transfer in the agricultural secondary institutions, as many complain that there are not all the material conditions to be able to carry out quality agricultural education in these institutions. Here is perhaps the biggest shortcoming in agriculture that secondary supplies are well below the requirements both in quantity and in quality. I think that with higher education, we are still as good as we are, but at this level, we really need reinforcements. We also propose a larger amount of redeployment every year at the National Land Fund Manager, which we did again this year. Of course, we do not think that we agree with the functioning of the current NFA or with the directives that the NFA represents. In order to make this transfer, which we propose, really benefit the Hungarian people, Hungary and the future of Hungary, of course, a serious transformation is necessary both in terms of personal and property policy at the NFA, but we would definitely give this amount of money if we were on government, since the National Land Fund Manager has to ensure that the ownership policies of the current governments prevail. And we can only hope and rely on the wisdom of the voters that this estate policy will not change as you do. If we recall, between 98 and 2002 the Fidesz government had a policy of property so that there would be no land left at the state and that we would try to distribute it as much as possible. Fortunately, there has been a change in that sense, since state land has not been sold recently. So there is certainly progress in this. I wouldn't open that debate right now because it really isn't part of the budget, and we've had a lot of discussions about it. But back to the original idea, I hope they won't make a 180-degree turn again, and let's say, towards the end of their government, when they feel their end in early 2018, they won't suddenly think the opposite of the state land again and they won't start selling it mass. Fish farming is also an area - moving on to my next proposal - that emerges in every budgetary debate. I am here to speak of the failure of the governments at hand. I think that Hungarian fish should have a much greater role in both the national economy and domestic nutrition. Unfortunately, we Hungarians also consume much less fish than the European average, while we are well aware of its positive physiological effects and may even talk a lot about it here, in the House. At the same time, the fact that Hungarian fish farming can come out of today's pit and take its place in the diet of Hungarian people requires much more serious government steps. This is justified, for example, by the fact that the price of sea fish is rising and its quality is falling, so sooner or later there must be a wider social need for domestic fish. I would also like to make some thoughts about the National Horse Programme of my Treasure. This government is also a serious failure. In 2010, I believed you that you were serious about raising the Hungarian horse industry - and here I really included tourism, education, recreation, breeding, racing and everything - and you want to do something about it. Just because you are known to have serious riders and riders, you have good positions, you have good connections, but it seems that it was only enough for a narrow circle to organize these state-made major events, it was little enough for the large investments that were promised at the time to actually be made. I know there are two investments here that there may be some movement, but it is far from what they have undertaken in the Treasure National Horse Programme. While we are supposed to be a cavalry nation and we are proud of this, we are proud of our riding past, compared to today I do not know whether the government has statistics on how much of the Hungarian children who, say, learns to ride. But I'm sure that if we could increase the chances of an elementary school or high school student meeting the horse at all, have a chance to establish a proper relationship with the animal, I'm sure that the number of riders in Hungary would rise by an order of magnitude. [[20.50]] But my time is running out, so I would just really like to say that the farm development program, fur animals and the undivided community should be something that we should be doing. Perhaps we could talk again for an hour about how many governments, when and under what circumstances they have promised to eliminate undivided common property, nothing has happened compared to this, and only a few sample projects are taking place, but the problem in the country is still ringing. I could only touch on my amendments. I hope that they will be partners in making the Hungarian countryside move forward and support them. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-216	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, István Nagy State Secretary has applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, It is true that there is a conceptual difference between us, but it is not true at all that Fidesz-KDNP is only interested in representing 15-20 thousand farmers or farmers. I think we have given a number of evidence of our commitment to the smallest producers, how important it is that the land is needed to create rural life, to remain in the countryside, and what support we are trying to provide for it. My fellow Member can also see from the opposition how much we are struggling to transform the property structure in Hungary. We said 300 hectares for one individual, we said 1200 hectares, and for those with livestock farms the limit of 1800 hectares. We introduced over 1200 hectares of degression and total withdrawal of subsidies. I would like to tell you that the applications for the rural development programme will also be based on similar principles. So there is also the priority of support that we set at 80:20, this is what we consider desirable, 80% for small plants and 20% for large farms in this country. But I would also like to say that the two economies, the two estate sizes, must not be turned against each other. In my opinion, it is the right procedure to do things side by side, complementing each other's activities. You, too, know very well that the country needs the technical development and investment of large farms to achieve competitiveness, research, experiments and R &amp; D investments are essential to enable the widest range of Hungarian agriculture to go ahead. The economic results there are dragging the other economies with them. The integration production, which will widen over the coming time, will distribute the roles correctly, and large economies as integrators, and small businesses that are resuscitating, resuscitating, will be able to pull Hungarian agriculture into this production system with their own workforce and expertise. Therefore, the fact that only industrial raw material production is preferred cannot be so pronounced because Hungary's size makes it predestine not only for the production of industrial raw material - this is what will be indicated in rural development applications, in the rural development programme - but it contains precisely the start-up investments in manufacturing, gardening, fruit production, plantation and modernisation aids that we again require and allow small businesses. And, of course, in the countryside, we have to look after every job as a treasure. There is a reason why the job protection action plan is extended to agriculture. This means the stability of 30-35 thousand people in agricultural jobs. I think it is a huge achievement that has been achieved here in terms of preserving jobs. You're right, the work of acquis is commendable, and as a guiding thread, it complements the professional work of the Ministry of Agriculture. All the research and research we order from there will help us all make the right professional decisions. I would like to tell you that when we planned the budget, the leaders of the acquis were, of course, negotiating the scale of support needed for their work. The need for genetic conservation institutions and public engagement. I would like to recommend to my fellow Member that he come out to Gödöllő, look at the renovations and the work that is being done there, how one building after another is being renewed, how the research extends from one building to another, from one sector to another, what plans there are. In the gene conservation programme, as regards indigenous animals, there is a world-class research work in the line of beekeeping that you can be proud of, and I hope you will be able to report a great deal of results. It is precisely because of the genetic conservation that we can enter the new protein program, because we have more than a hundred plants that we can replace in feeding as a soyalternative. They are taking out native plants that are being kept in these banks, they are being multiplied now, and they are experimenting with how, what percentage of them, they can produce new protein feed that will help us to provide genetically modified feed. The need for secondary supply is a huge issue at the moment in Hungarian agriculture. Everywhere I go, I speak with any farmer, I wish you the good day, that after there is a question that there is no student you can employ, there is no skilled worker you can hire. The truth, my fellow Member, is that we really need to be serious about this, not just between ourselves, but with people, with the population, with young people. They need to be convinced that being a pig farmer professional worker in Hungary today is a good decision, and it will make 300 thousand forints in a month. I'm totally serious. But it must be accepted by young people that this can be a good decision, and it is not a faulty choice to be a farmer. We need to put the idea into public thinking that it means a safe livelihood, long-term work and stability if you find a living in the country, in a rural school and in a workplace around you. We still have a lot of public thinking to do here. The role of the Hungarian fish. I have to say that whenever a foreign delegation arrives at the Ministry, one of the negotiating points is that our research institute staff are asked to be sent out to them in connection with freshwater fishing. We have scientific results, there is such an international prestige of Hungarian freshwater fish farming that everyone from China to India to Afghanistan is looking for them because there are such results. This result, this knowledge, must finally be translated into practice, so that we can use it in Hungary as well. With regard to the Treasurem programme, I would just like to say that this year there will be a major investment in Silvasvárad, for which the resource will be provided, and that there will soon be a sample program that will be able to stimulate the hearts of all riders and lovers of horses. I have another good news about the elimination of undivided common property. The programme that closed in Vas County has now started, and farmers have already received the letter in May, each county has been designated a district, and the second district is designated in June-July. Our aim is to say by the end of the 2018 cycle that this problem has been removed. I can only draw the farmers' attention from here if they want this programme to be implemented quickly and surely, and this investment and development obstacle to be removed, then they should seek a full settlement. It's much better if they agree at the same table, because for years, decades, even their children will be farming side by side. With a full deal, we can ensure the escape from the joint undivided, free of charge even for those who did not sign up for this program in no time. I also recommend to all of you to sign up and agree on a full deal, then we really are completely ready by the end of 2018. This year, again, there are still 2.5 billion forints left over from last year, so we will start with 7.5 billion forints in 2016 - but also in 2015 - to implement this programme. I'm asking you to back me up on this. Thank you very much. [[21.00]]
u2015-05-28-218	Dear Parliament, We would now have a two-minute turn, but not just a round, but no speeches will follow, as they have not applied for this. It's not encouraging, it's simply stating the facts. Thus, Mr Vécsey, representative of Fidesz, may speak as a pre-notified speaker. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In my speech, I would like to share with you some thoughts about the municipal chapter of the 2016 budget, municipal funding. Before I turn to the specific issues that are important to me in the 2016 draft budget, allow me, as a basis, to mention two, I think, very important moments and moments. One of the things that would be good to say is that the transformation of the municipal system, as in general the transformation of large systems, was a very serious attack, and these attacks concerned the whole transformation of the municipal system, all of which was worth it, not only in Hungary, but also abroad. For this reason, it should also be mentioned in relation to the 2016 budget that the law on the local governments of Hungary, i.e. the law governing the transformation, as a whole, complies with the principles set out in the European Charter of Local Government, as regards municipal property, the exercise of ownership rights, the right to levy and collect autonomous local taxes, the continuation of business activities and the rules on budgetary and management, and also complies with its management and framework. This law, as we know - and it now proves for the third year of the law's operation - had an important purpose, it had an important purpose for the municipalities to have a stable, predictable and secure economic background; it was intended for the law not to recreate the shortage, create a lack of operation, create conditions for management without shortage, as it could be based on efficient local administrative and quality public service activities. The other primer, obviously desirable, is an important moment for debt consolidation. If we recall - and I think everyone in this House is able to remember it - something like that happened to the municipalities from 2002 until 2010, it was spookyly similar to what happened to a large part of Hungarian families: they were simply forced to move forward, to develop, and most of these loans were foreign currency-based loans, thanks to the fact that the taking-up of the forint loan, as in the case of families, was made impossible by governments, the governments, which regressed between 2002 and 2010. By 2010, the local government's debt increased by about 20 times, with a very serious debt of over HUF 1300 billion. This is the government's one-off decision, this one-off decision of the legislature, that the debt consolidation has been carried out - we must say this, and the government and the governing coalition can proudly take it - it has been a step that no government has made in the last 25 years, during the entire history of the local government, no legislation has done both in terms of size, volume and in terms of its importance for farming, so it has been an extremely important and large decision. His opponents still say, on a municipal level, that this was a one-time decision, and the effect of this was, to say the least, worn out. The thing I like the most is hearing some characters say it's worn out. It is important to know that, during the period of debt consolidation, a large part of the municipalities were not on the verge of insolvency, so planned loans of 10-15-20 years, sometimes 25 years old, were run by the municipalities, and their debt services had to be planned, so in advance in the budget of the municipalities these amounts for debt consolidation were included for 10-15-20 years. Now, these debt consolidations have been released. That is why I think it is important to mention that when we talk about funding municipalities in this year's budget and in the budgets of the coming years, this one-off decision must be taken into account, which has a positive impact on the management of municipalities for decades, if of course they can make use of it. Let me now turn to some specific figures and moments that characterize this draft budget for 2016. The first is about local governments and debt consolidation: this is the current draft budget, which provides HUF 12.5 billion to support the development of non-debt consolidation municipalities. This appropriation is intended to cover road, sidewalk construction, other infrastructure investments, investments in water management and precipitation water drainage systems in the municipalities concerned, improvements in job creation, and, of course, everything else that the municipalities consider important in their development programme. In addition, as in the previous year, as in 2015, a HUF 5.4 billion budget is used to support small-scale improvements and renovations. In particular, it is an important change that, in previous years, an appropriation of HUF 1.5 billion for the metropolitan and district self-governments with a special title, to provide solid housing for inland roads has been included in the renovation of inland roads, sidewalks and bridges. This means that, like other settlements, district authorities can obtain funding through tender. A further notable development is that in 2016, the budget will continue to provide support for public education, interest-enhancing support, professional support for museums, contributing to the technical and technical development of public education infrastructure and the professional development of museums and museums. In the financing system of municipalities, it is also justified to maintain the balancing system in 2016, as part of the fine-tuning process, I do not think that there should be any particular explanation. Accordingly, the revenue of municipalities from the business tax base will continue to reduce the amount of general aid in 2016 while keeping unchanged the principles and rates of 2015. In addition to inclusion, settlements with low economic potential can still expect positive settlement introduced from 2015. Cities with low local tax revenues - this is the range of municipalities with tax revenues below HUF 8500/person - receive additional support of a certain percentage of the amount of aid involved in the set-off in order to carry out their basic tasks. Local government funding will be refined in 2016 - obviously taking into account the 2015 experience - and steps will be taken to ensure that the task funding is more appropriate and rational. I think that in a sense small settlements or settlements with less significant local tax revenues can be the key winners of this. Dear Parliament, I believe that it is important for the municipalities to carry out cultural tasks and to improve the supply of cultural goods. In this respect, the task of the county-wide urban museums and the support of the local authorities' musical institutional tasks are both improved and, finally, the financing of the small-town library services of the county libraries is improved. [[21.10]] I think that this is a positive element of the legislative process of the past period, making it more secure the financing situation of county-wide urban museums and libraries carrying out county tasks. In my opinion, it is also worth mentioning that in 2016, the municipalities supporting the museum can also receive support. With regard to the protection of cultural goods, museum institutions, public and public library services, the same amount as in 2015 can be used as HUF 19.4 billion in the light of the change in the legal environment and the tasks to be performed. It is also worth mentioning that, based on the already known data, from 2016 the range of highly qualified theatre, dance and music organizations will be expanded, with a HUF 250 million higher amount to be used to carry out the task in order to ensure the operation and artistic activity of these organizations. Thus, the local authorities concerned will receive approximately HUF 11.6 billion for this purpose in 2016. Finally, I would like to mention other additional support from municipalities, which is divided into appropriations corresponding to previous target groups in 2016. Extraordinary support for local authorities appears on a specific basis. The individual municipal subsidies are included within the item in the central budget support for the investments and individual operating expenditure of each local government. In the past years, municipalities now have a specific budget for the framework of force majeure and force majeure for the management and control of unforeseen unexpected situations. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I am convinced that the 2016 budget represents a positive further positive shift in municipal task funding compared to 2015. The basic principle of the government is that it does not think of culture as a burden, but as a resource; in this respect, the budget, this chapter of the budget, is also an eloquent proof. It can therefore be said with a calm mind that the 2016 budget bill can be strongly supported from a municipal point of view only on the basis of the positive content and approach elements that I have listed above. I call on this support from this House, and thank you for the attention of my fellow Members who pay attention to it at the late hour. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-220	Thank you too, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No one asked for a word for two minutes, we ran out of announced speakers. We now have Members who have asked for a normal word, and István Józsa, Mr MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It was almost touching to hear the words of Mr ex-Mayor, Member László Vécsey, as if he did not know how the municipalities stood. So I don't think he would have left Sada's mayor seat with an easy heart if the powers of the local authorities were so fine. As you said, from the transformation of the large system, the municipalities became quite small in terms of power and money, but it was only touched by the impression that it was so nice to say. What I want to say, however, with full weight, is that they have taken a good start, that the budget should be predictable, but there is a serious flaw in this, which is why this budget does not serve predictability in the context of its referral. The President of the State Audit Office also said that the President of the Fiscal Council pointed out that this proposal was against the law, precisely in your law, in their previous law on the so-called debt formula or debt path, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, so that it is in force as it stands, and yet you have submitted this budget without complying with this legal requirement. It is an interesting solution that, after the Fiscal Council has drawn your attention to this, there is a small contradiction between the laws and the budget presented, a proposal has been written or envisaged quickly to abolish this legal obligation to the predictability of the debt path. I do not believe that this position can be defended in a credible way here in the House of Lawmaking, so you, when you do this, are uncredited, do not serve the purpose set in words to increase predictability in this advanced budget. This legal contradiction for professionals - you may be able to neglect that for the press, that we will change it, because so many laws have been amended, at the same time for professionals - this is a serious fiasco. You were expecting Fitch Ratings to give you a good rating, they knew about this particular debt-tracking problem, they waited to see what was going on, and then they didn't grade it up, they just improved the view a little bit. I believe that such a fiasco should not be taken on by a majority of governments when, by the way, they say that macroeconomic indicators are going well. But what's in it for you? You state how good the situation is compared to the 2010 base, and I say that you should already take into account that after 2010, you have implemented a restriction corresponding to three Bokros packages in the framework of the Matolcsy packages. The Bokros package included the national currency, a 9 percent depreciation of the forint. Count that the euro was around 260 forints at the change of government, and now it is around 300 forints! How much did your economic policy, conscious economic policy, evaluate the Hungarian currency, if not administratively? At least 15 percent. Or let's look at the area of large distribution systems. Three times 300 billion have been withdrawn from health care for three years, and they left it at that floor level, leaving funding for health care. Or the funding of education: only the former, let's say, 180 billion budget support from higher education has been withdrawn to 120 billion in one year, so it has been reduced by one-third, so today's value, half of 120 billion, and it has also been forgotten. So, in comparison to this, some of these little crumbs are now being returned, I don't think that this should be so very proud, so the incredible dissatisfaction that manifests in various professional areas, even the pay of the educational area, that non-peducators have been completely forgotten from all wage development, that social workers have been excluded from wage development, that other areas are just promising future career models for future wage development, instead we socialists say that if the economy is actually performing better, real wage increases are needed. Step forward, please, the real raises. The other, also to the debt path, is that they are extremely positive about the development of debt. Let me tell you that at the time of the change of government, the government debt was below HUF 20 000 billion, and at present it is over HUF 25 000 billion! So there is a nominally HUF 5000 billion increase, with the savings of the private pension funds of HUF 3000 billion being cancelled, some of it supposedly being used for debt repayment, but in any case this 3000 billion is missing from the nation's reserve assets. So if we add this 3000 billion to the $5,000 billion nominal increase, that's a $8,000 billion loss on the 20 000 billion you inherited in 2010. [[21.20]] Here's the figure: it's a 40 percent increase in debt nominally. You can't really see that in the country. Okay, the municipal debts have been repaid, but this has been raised by your fidesz mayors. In 2007, it was public speaking to issue a bond, take out a loan. The debt of some large cities and even smaller settlements did not go up by accident. So it is also a matter of predictability, my fellow Members, to be honest. I have highlighted a contradiction, which is a legal contradiction, and another one, which is being misled by the evolution of public debt, also. I think that, as a result of all this, there is some increase, especially in 2014 due to the large use of EU funds, the investment has moved a little bit, the use has moved a little, but this has been limited to a year or two. So what's growing is extremely modest. Let me mention that Hungary has grown above 4 percent following the Bokros-csomág, and this has lasted even during the first Orbán government until it was touched. The other area I would like to talk about is also a very serious contradiction in financial life and adversely affecting SMEs. It's bank financing. Undoubtedly, the National Bank's recovery programme has had a positive impact, but with a guarantee, SMEs should be helped to make substantial use of EU support under post-financing. Right now, that's not an option. In the area of innovation, I would like to call for the promotion of patents to be developed. We are experiencing the opposite. It is also linked to innovation that a product charge has also been imposed on innovative products, such as solar panels. This is highly counterproductive, and while they are talking about tax reductions, so small, and in the last five years, tax centralization has reached nearly 50 percent. This, on the other hand, is one of the highest in the EU. So I would just say that you should pay attention to these contradictions, press your government to correct them. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2015-05-28-222	Thank you very much. Happy Congressman István, the representative of Fidesz is coming. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-223	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Of course, in disagreement with Mr Józsa, there is a significant tax reduction that remains with families in the new budget. I think, as far as 1 percent, 120 billion of personal income tax reduced from 16 percent to 15 percent, will appear even in retail, I'm sure. This is important, because it also increases the economy. I'd like to get back to this community service because I see some people looking down on other people's work, or I don't know how they feel about it. Unfortunately, my colleague Heringes has left, even though I would have asked her to list the works that are not value-making for me, because I have never seen them before. According to my creed, the man who gets up and goes to work in the morning gets up and goes away to create value, from the man who, say, rattles him as a public worker in the park, through the masonry to the congressman. I think we all get up because we go to work, because we want to create value. But I look forward to and look at what my socialist fellow Members will say, what non-value-creating works are, because I will say again that I cannot do this, but I am sure you do. Then we can discuss what they are. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if you are referring to me, you will at least say what I have said. I said that we are responsible for the budget. I didn't say that you couldn't use, good or even responsible thoughts, but those that say this budget, the budget framework of this budget, with which we can only do less than 3 percent deficit, the 2-percent deficit that we plan, we can keep, they may not fit. This will be examined by the government and our faction, which of the proposals that fit into it. I didn't say they weren't valuable. I'm sure they're very valuable, but I'm not sure they'll fit into this budget. What we put into a budget is to make the country work and work and keep the frameworks, but it is the government and the factions of the government that are responsible. I can tell you that I don't think we have fairies. We're talking about reality. Reality, whether it is a tax reduction, reality is that retail sales are increasing, reality is that GDP is increasing, the country is developing. It's all real. I must return to M4 because I do not understand what the problem with M4 is, why is it a problem for my fellow Members, if we want to finish M4. It's a big deal... [[Dr. István Józsa: Stop!]] The shutdown happened because of what we have said many times, but it seems that they do not hear us, the Union has only been dissuading us for two years. It is true that this is the Union that described that traffic on this road does not justify being a motorway. I welcome the respected experts of the Union from here to Parliament. Someday, you'll have to drive on Route 4, just like I do every day, and then maybe they'll realize that it's justified that this should be an expressway, and maybe they'll change their minds, and they'll still give you money. But if they do not provide, we will finish this trip with taxpayers' money and Hungarian budget forints. I trust that this road will be built from Budapest to the border. However, we have already done more for Szolnok County or for the part of the country than we have for socialist governments. Under socialist governments, a single meter of expressway was not built towards Szolnok County or Szolnok County. [[Dr. István Józsa: 800 kilometers!]] And if I just look at the budget, we'll build the M44 in the south of the county, and here in the middle of the county, I hope the M4 road will be built. I trust that the reconstruction will continue soon. And we are constantly being called upon by Congressman Bana to support SMEs. I don't understand. When I said several times about closing shops on Sunday that we wanted to support Hungarian small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, you protested fiercely and said that no, the shops must be open on Sunday. I told you that we were doing this to support small shops, retailers, the private sector. Compared to that, you protested. Now the data is coming out, and the revenue of these businesses seems to have increased considerably. I do not understand whether I would like to support SMEs now or not, because then we should have supported the closing of the shop on Sunday, because this also supported a large number of small and medium-sized trading companies. It is a pity that Mr Dániel Z. Karpat left because he was asking about more tax revenue. Well, I don't want to hurt you, but once you're demanded to increase employment, and we tell you that employment is going to increase, and by the way, more people are working, it's obvious that personal income tax revenue is going to increase, because if more people are working, more people are going to pay personal income tax, even 15 percent if you look at it that way. And the fact that consumption tax revenues are increasing is completely natural. There's been an increase in consumption in the country for months. Trade consumption is not growing slightly, and from then on it is quite clear that the government is well-designed with this and consumption revenue is increasing. My colleague Józsa, I am sorry, but why the municipalities have taken up so much credit may need to think about the period when you were in the government. I was mayor, and you happen to be underfunded, about 40 percent funding for school operations and all public tasks. Why did we take the loan? We hired him because we didn't want to close the village schools because we didn't want public services to disappear in a settlement. That is why the municipalities took out loans, and this is what our government saw, and that is why the government took over the repayment of loans from these municipalities, and that is why we are continuing next year's programme to allow those who did not take out loans to apply and develop because they deserve it, because they managed very well. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-05-28-224	Thank you very much. Congressman László György Lukács is next, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, So by the end of the debate, there will be nothing but a summary. We tried to paint a full picture of health care today. We've considered where there are few sources, how few virtues he has, how many more flaws he has. Of course, we have tried to be righteous and responsible in this. [[21.30]] One thing the government wants to do in this area is not enough. That it's not enough, I'm not saying it. Let me quote the Chairman of the Hospital Association, who said that the resources currently available are a threat to social peace. But I didn't say it, but Gábor Zombor, Secretary of State, agreed to the promise contest, also with the Chairman of the Hospital Association, in which he himself stated that he lacked 300 billion forints of health - he said. But also, who is more believed, Mihály Varga, who also submitted the budget to you, explained that the reason why there is less money in the area recently is because there are fewer of us, and previous investments in the EU have run out and that we must accept that there is so much money in Hungary. That's how much money there is, these slick facts. What a problem it is, you have just heard, and horribile dictu, we must slowly measure ourselves to Slovakia in this area. So, here we are, and this shows the opinions here, Minister Gábor Zombor. that opposition criticisms are justified and justified that it is necessary to adopt the amendments proposed by Jobbik because they are justified. I would ask the present pro-government representatives to interpret the expectations of Jobbik and the opposition. They interpret it because it is entirely the will of health workers, and it must be taken into account by the government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-226	Thank you very much. MEP László Vécsey asked for a two-minute speech, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-227	Thank you very much. Mr President, My fellow Member, István Józsa, responded to my speech, if I remember correctly, found that there were problems in the local government sphere. Well, I think it's perfectly natural. In today's debate, I believe that I understand the mentality of opposition speakers, that even, yet, as István said, they have no particular responsibility in the implementation of the budget. We understand that we should give more. No one has said that this budget is a budget for Paradise states. We just want it to be a little better. I don't think there is, nor has anyone anywhere said that the Canaan is here. I don't know any mayor, including my past as mayor, who, at some point, would have told me that we shouldn't need more funding for municipal duties. There's no such thing. Mayors and municipalities would also like to give their settlement more. It's perfectly natural. We are responsible for the budget, stretching as far as our blanket is concerned, and trying to create a framework that is sustainable. Mr Józsa, with his great international experience, knows exactly what forms of government exist from France to the council system 30 years ago. The powers are not the same anywhere. It's not about whether or not the money is enough. The question is whether it is sufficient to carry out the tasks required by law. I no longer believe that I will hear from my old mayor colleagues at any time that everything is very nice and very good. Of course not. Well, they want more for their settlement. It's an absolute natural thing. One more thought about numerology. If our fellow Member, Józsa, had still calculated how much the loss was, I think there would be nothing to talk about, because the budget for 2016 would have run out. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-05-28-228	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr as a normal word applicant.
u2015-05-28-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Without the brokerage government's magic tricks, the unemployment rate would be above 10 percent today. It's a very simple story. It comes from the fact that a large number of unemployed people were pushed out, narrowed down to three months, remembering the length of care and then passed through public employment. Happy fellow Member, I would like to tell you that, unfortunately, there are a lot of backwards situations in the case of public workers. I agree and support the good thing about getting up and the child seeing this and moving towards work. But it is bad to have people, either alone or in groups, standing on the side of the road in the morning on one side of the road and on the other side of the road in the afternoon. This, let's say, is not a value-creating activity in my judgment. This, you know, is bad because, on the one hand, it's bad for the person in this situation, and on the other hand, for those people who work alongside the working benches for minimum wage, you know, for the declining minimum wage you gave them, those people don't look at these people well. So you're starting the wrong processes. This fund needs to be changed. We need to find a type of activity for these people that produces returns, benefits, which gives them a good feeling and everyone else who looks out for them. And don't you say, "Why, why, these people, because they're standing here, giving money?" Almost as much as I do for minimum wage? So, these torsos, they need to be changed. But if you do not fully understand what I am saying, then consult with Secretary of State Sándor Czomba, I do not believe that you would deny me in this regard. You know, during the period 2009-2014, there have been substantial public employment surpluses which distort labour market statistics in this respect. And not only do they distort statistics, but they also distort our lives, because bringing public employment to the top will not solve the business of 4-5 million people living under the minimum living age, nor will it solve the fate of the 600 thousand refugees fleeing abroad. One word, like a hundred, I'd like to ask you here towards the end of the debate. I would like to ask that the focus, the focus, be in their thinking of giving people jobs. Work, real, tangible work, combined with value creation. Complete what they have undertaken, a million new jobs in the economy, and, in addition to all this, a decent wage for the work that can be earned. Do not decrease minimum wage in purchasing power value and much more. In case of lower wages, practically introduce one-digit personal income tax, an increase in the minimum wage and much more. Look! My last sentence. We will propose a national wage increase programme for my amendments. I suggest you keep this in mind instead of the hit-and-run budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Józsa and Imre Horváth applaud.]]
u2015-05-28-230	Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2015-05-28-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, So, at the end of the day, allow me to add two footnotes to all that has been said. I would like to draw your attention to two important amendments that we have already tabled. This is gonna get out of hand. Of course, this will be on both my social media site and my blog, because I will talk about it as planned. One of them is now the construction of the Karcag Police Department for 20 years, which is a promise every year. But no member of the government can turn that promise into paper, even though there are two of them in Karcagon. The promise still exists only orally, it must be implemented. The other is Sándor Ferenczi Secondary School in Miskolc [[The president's ringing the bell.]] where, despite compulsory physical education, children have to do physical education without a real, normal gym, by taking the yard away from them.
u2015-05-28-232	Please, just stop.
u2015-05-28-233	Technically, there's a property that needs to be completed, so we can spend more money on it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-234	He asked for a two-minute speech, Mr István Happy, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-235	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I still think I didn't get the answer to the non-valuable work. Because what you said wasn't a job. The standing. But it's not the government's fault, and it's not those who provide the money for community service, it's those who can't give orders to do the job, please. And I'm sorry, but you should decide if you want to raise these people's wages to the minimum wage level at some point, or if you're talking about these people here, in your previous speech, as if they're making an awful lot of money compared to the minimum wage. Make up your mind which one you want. What I can tell you is that in my opinion, every person who gets up in the morning and goes to work wants to do a value-making job. And if you let him do it, he'll do it. By the way, as far as people who have fled abroad are concerned, these people are your foreign exchange refugees, because you were the ones who raised the foreign exchange loan with them and you couldn't pay them back. In recent years, we have tried to do a lot for them, but the truth is, most of them went out before 2010 because you drove them into foreign exchange loans and couldn't pay their loans. [[Dr. István Józsa and Nándor Gúr constantly intervene.]] [[21.40]] I can tell you this budget is a budget for tax cuts. The government that submitted this and the Fidesz fraction is responsible for doing this. Based on this budget, every Hungarian person can move a little further forward next year, I think, in his life, and every single Hungarian person can move towards the goal that I set at the time as a Member of Parliament. I always said in the campaign, I would like to make sure that by the end of the fourth year all Hungarian people can say that they live a little better. I am sure that if the Hungarian economy continues in this way and we continue to govern in this way, then every Hungarian person and every family can say so by 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-05-28-236	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate will be adjourned and will continue at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the debate on our agenda today, and now we are going to speak after the agenda. Representative Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech after today's agenda. I give you five minutes. Here you go.
u2015-05-28-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Here at the end of today's budget debate, I would like to be a little bit more involved in the world of old-timers. They contacted me with a problem from the Association of Hungarian Veteran Vehicles and the members of them, with which they have repeatedly contacted the governments and legislators, but they have not yet found a solution, while we can also see a system that works well in a number of Western European countries. So I think that Spanish wax should not be invented in this either, but it would be worth examining how these problems are solved in other countries. In conclusion, the most important question I would like to ask at the beginning of this is, and what we expect to know is when they will give up excessive bureaucracy, when it will make it easier to save old vehicles from extinction, or what a law-abiding citizen would do if he wanted to save a motorcycle manufactured 60 years ago. According to the association's data, there are about 3,000 vehicles on the road that have won the so - called oldtimer rank that can be obtained by fulfilling different parameters. A non-negligible part of these vehicles is a motorcycle. However, this number could be much larger in everyday life if the majority of engines could be seen not only in museums but also in real life, even on the street. In the previous term, I had already dealt with the subject, and I asked a question about this matter when Mrs Lászlóné Németh was a minister, and I asked what solutions the government might offer for this problem. After all, it is common to find an old motorcycle or even a car in a remote part of an inherited or long-forgotten shed, and I would like to place it on the market. The problem is mostly the disappearance of a document proving the property or any authenticity of these objects, so that ownership cannot be justified. Therefore, if someone wants to put them on the market, they face legal obstacles that make it impossible for them to do so. I don't have time to read the full answer right now, and I'd like to quote just one sentence from it. On the task of certifying road transport, on the issue and withdrawal of road transport documents, 326/2011. Government decree 42. According to paragraph 2 (a), the vehicle may be placed on the market under other conditions if the acquisition of ownership is justified by an original document or by an original certified copy thereof, or if it is not issued in Hungarian, it has been accompanied by a certified translation into Hungarian. The public credibility of the rolling stock register and the protection of vehicles with serious ideas and often significant material value and their owners require that only vehicles whose current owner has not been acquired by theft or by other means be legalised. In the absence of this, the interests of those who are in good faith and who are committed to preserving our past in the field of transport may be harmed. As I said, I am aware of that, and I would make changes in that direction. In particular, I am coming to you with this problem because I have been approached on a specific matter and I have tried to help the citizen, but the responsible department of the competent local government, the EMCDDA and the civil society experienced in domestic life have given different advice. No one has been able to tell us what the legal, accurate way of this process can be done to everyone. This is the case of a law-abiding citizen who found a motorcycle manufactured 60 years ago while repairing the yard of long-dead grandparents. Since he was employed at hobby level, he completely renovated it, bought old parts, and refurbished this fine vehicle with no energy, no money. Unfortunately, however, there is no paper left for the motorcycle, there is no registration of any chassis or engine number, but he would like to put it on the market if he has already invested so much energy and financial resources. And that's where the problem came from, because it's been sent from everywhere, every body is waiting for another body to take action, you can't get a license like that, you can't get a compulsory insurance policy on it, and you can't even get a authenticity check on it. It's been going round and round for years, so I'd like the government to act in the interest of the old-timer community. They really do not need money, but small legislative amendments that allow them to pursue this beautiful hobby. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-05-28-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 9:47 p.m.]]
