u2015-02-26-0	I warmly and warmly welcome my fellow Members and welcome all those who will follow our meeting today. The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notary Erzsébet Schmuck and notary László Földi will be of assistance to me. Today, before the agenda, Mr Bernadett Szél, from the Group of the LMP, spoke on behalf of the Government as an employment policy. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-26-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am speaking now for the sake of the hardworking Hungarian people, who do not come to two. In 2010, Fidesz promised this country a million new, taxing jobs in ten years. On a pro rata basis, this means that we should be at about 400,000 jobs. The reality is, however, that around 40,000 new jobs have been created in the competition sector. Funnyly, I could say that they were only wrong one zero, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, but seriously, this means that you have deceived 360,000 Hungarian people, while in this country we have to talk about some 700-800 thousand jobseekers, unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You have made two huge mistakes: one is that Fidesz does not have a job creation programme; it doesn't have a job creation programme, and the other is that you have taken the wages in this country unruly. LMP wants more jobs and higher wages. In terms of job creation, I can tell you that through governments, you have turned this country into a assembly plant. No one here, through governments, has had the capacity to innovate and identify the situation in this country to see a strategic breakout point in sectors that are covered by Article XXI. It's the company. This is exactly what the program of the "Renewing Hungary" does for the Politics. You don't have to tax it a penny any more, you don't have to take a penny credit for it, and there's 450 thousand new jobs in it. This is what we recommend to the Hungarian people. The other thing we ask for and demand is higher wages. Let's face it, you've been building a society for the fifth year that has only one international competitive advantage, and these are endlessly low wages. We have now come to the point, my honourable pro-government Members, that in Hungary half of the people who pay taxes, 2.2 million people earn less than the minimum living. We have now come to the point that nearly two thirds of the taxpayers' earnings fall under the average wage. This means that the Hungarian people are working on deeply depressed salaries, 40 percent of the EU's wages, and what is particularly painful is that Hungarian wages are 75 percent of the EU's wages. The poverty of the working man in this country, my fellow Members, has been the responsibility of Fidesz for the fifth year. And it is not true that employment will increase with wage cuts, but it is true that this approach can destroy a country. The May Other Politics has a different future for the Hungarian people. We say we need higher wages. We say that it is necessary to stop thinking that the competitiveness of a country on the lowest possible wage depends on cheap, untrained, trained workers and vulnerable workers, because the opposite is true. LMP knows precisely that low wages and low-skilled workers are putting pressure on the economy and, therefore, they are putting pressure on the country, hindering competitiveness and preventing this country and productivity from increasing. That is why we stand for raising wages, raising the level of knowledge of workers and strengthening social security. This is the way to strengthen Hungary. You led the country into a downward global wage competition without asking the people. This global wage competition only has losers at the level of the people. I've got some bad news for you. This model's already out of breath in East Asia. We don't have to support the multi-enterprises. I'm in a lawsuit with you. We're in court to find out how much they've given strategic partners, and they're ashamed to tell us. It is not the oligarchs that should be supported to make this country a gang war, but small and medium-sized enterprises. Workers' poverty must be eliminated and the Hungarian families who work hard and want to get along. That's why we've been standing up for years. There is money in this country, my fellow Members, but you do not put it where it belongs. We are now presenting solutions to you in a package, so that finally in this House the story of how it will be easier for Hungarian people. We will continue to stand for the minimum wage net to reach the minimum wage. That's the basis. For example, we are also taking initiatives to extend family allowances and family tax incentives to children in higher education until they are 24 years old. Help the families, please. If the Fidesz finally stopped running ideas and fighting gangs, you might want to consider starting to deal with the people who are taking this country on their backs. They're working from dawn to night, week to week, month to month, but they're not going from one to two, and they're watching their children leave this country because they have no future and no prospects. The Possibly Other proposals of Politics are about these people, and we call for the support of this House.
u2015-02-26-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Czomba will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If this speech had been made around 2009, practically every word of it would have been true or true. I wonder, my fellow Member - you have been here for the past four years, I have been here - you see the statistics, you see how the Fidesz has been able to start its second government; believe me, if you were right about the figures, the problems you have just mentioned, we would not have a majority in Parliament now, let alone two-thirds, but no majority. Why do I say that? We promised a million new, taxing jobs. If we look at the statistics, I can tell you that based on the latest figures - although the most recent will appear tomorrow morning, if all is true - the number of employees in Hungary has increased by more than 400 thousand. If you look at the increase in public employment and the increase in migration, the two are withdrawn from each other, you will see that there are hundreds of thousands of jobs in the competitive sector. And don't look at the institutional statistics, where the under-fives are not in any way seen by the statistics, but always the same. I promised a few years ago, and I'm telling you now that I'm referring to the data of the MEF. I don't know where he gets the 700-800 thousand job seekers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'll show you, Mr. Secretary.]] According to the latest statistics, it's around 350,000, and according to labour statistics, there's around 400,000 unemployed. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The Unfit?]] He says we've made it a assembly plant... That's part of it, Congresswoman, those without care. Don't try to take the text of the socialists from here. [[Lajos Korózs: We didn't say anything.]] 'Cause believe me to believe that many times things are being set in the wrong direction - not now, but in the previous period, dear fellow Members - because the fact is that in relation to the minimum wage, it is possible to say why the minimum wage is not 100 thousand in Hungary. Do you know, dear Congresswoman and fellow Members, what would be the result of this at the moment? [[9.10]] There was a case in which we increased wages in Hungary without any performance; we grew from credit. Look at the results of this in terms of employment policy and all other aspects. He says that Hungary has become a assembly plant. On the one hand, this is not the case at all, ask suppliers who deliver to large multinational companies, especially the automotive industry, and offer jobs to tens of thousands of people. Ask them what they think or ask the people at Audi, Mercedes, Suzuki. [[Impressive Dezső: People Who Have Nothing To Do With You]] how they feel about having to do their day-to-day work under the circumstances. With regard to wages, we froze her, I don't know what she said, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: They're short.]] In 2010 the minimum wage was 73 500 HUF, this amount was 105 thousand HUF at the beginning of 2015. Deal and multiply, 43 percent increase. Netten it, let's look at it at real demand: real earnings have increased by 10.7 percent over the past period, with more than GDP growth in Hungary. So if the question of whether the Hungarian government is taking wage increases seriously, it is clearly shown by these figures. I do not want to burden the people here, but I would like to say that from 2000 to 2002, the ratio between the minimum wage and the minimum wage has increased from 58 percent to 92 percent. This fell to 70 percent under socialist governments and has since come up slowly and gradually. Right now, we're at 77 percent. So I would like to draw your attention to the trend that the minimum wage is falling compared to the minimum wage, so the scissors are growing or shrinking. This clearly shows that in the past period, and what is very important, we are trying to achieve performance-proportionally, so in Hungarian: we are increasing wages to the extent that the Hungarian economy makes this possible. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I understand that there are still a few areas of opposition that are very difficult to criticise, because the data and not only the data, but also the underlying content clearly show that the Hungarian government has taken good measures, and that we will continue on this path in terms of employment policy in the next period. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. å Protect the elderly from product-showing fraud! Mr Bence Rétvári, on behalf of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I cannot stop talking to the previous comment, so, Madam Congresswoman, I think it is good to have 400 thousand more people working. It is not a shame for any opposition Member to be pleased that 400,000 of our fellow citizens now have a job and have to make a living from it and not from aid. But here, following the speech before the gang-warring, oligarching agenda, KDNP intends to address a subject in the coming weeks and months that concerns people's everyday life and their everyday life, an issue that I think almost all of us know. After all, almost everyone in Hungary has a pensioner's acquaintance, a relative who used to go to a product show, and there was some sort of magical mattress, magic pillow, never rusting pot set, or something like that offered to him for sale with a variety of tricks, and so many pensioners pulled out of their pockets, not tens of thousands of forints, but even hundreds of thousands of forints. The prevalence of this problem is shown by the thousands of complaints and notifications to the Consumer Protection Authority every year, in which pensioners and elderly people complain, in particular, that they take advantage of their naivety, exploit their credulity, and in many cases sell them products that they would never actually have bought on their own initiative. Complaints show that there are several methods of product presentation, fraud offenders, or perpetrators of unfair influence. One is that they are obliged to buy and make decisions on the spot, and they say that they have only a limited amount of time, while, of course, this is not true, because they organize such things day after day, week after week and try to force them to make decisions in a stressful state. In many cases, when buying, they are given a waiver of their rights as consumers, contracts contain clauses or, in addition, have these people sign a legal declaration which, by reason of their age, is obviously more difficult to understand in the system of legal guarantees, in which they renounce these later warranties. They often use the method of entering a nursing home, or having free health - care, health - screening days, and there they say, based on their health results, that this is exactly the product that they need, often even knowing completely different results. And we've heard a lot of other psychic blackmails, a lot of announcements have been made: if you want to see your granddaughter again next year, you have to buy this product if you want to be with your family again next Christmas, you can only do so if you buy this and this product from that provider. Of course, many times at multiple prices, since we have also heard that they sell these different products to older people at a price of up to ten times the market price, often by fraud and deception at these product presentations. The most typical form of deception is when a product is shown to treat a disease, that it can cure certain diseases, which is not true, often give a false impression that someone has already won a prize, but the receipt of it is subject to a higher amount of money. As I have said, it is often said that this offer is only for a limited period of time, while it is obviously much longer-term, and it is also that many free gifts are already being handed over in advance to elderly pensioners either at home or at product placements or at health care facilities. But later, at the last gift, access to it will be linked to a payment of HUF 150,000, thus exerting unfair pressure on elderly pensioners. In addition, complaints received often include the fact that they were unable to enforce their right of withdrawal. Not only have they not been enlightened, but later, let's say, it was subject to an administrative fee, or to the purchase of another product, that the person could exercise his or her own consumer rights. Also, many times, the purchase prices that this pensioner wanted to exercise in connection with the right of withdrawal were not repaid. In the coming weeks and months, the Christian Democratic People's Party will also seek out public bodies, whether consumer protection, data protection or other enforcement bodies, who are competent in this matter, as well as their experiences. We will consult civil society organisations, and we will also consult with the pensioners themselves, at the e-mail address segdijaspanasz@kdnp.hu or at the office of the KDNP faction. We would like to sum this up, and in cooperation with the government, we would like to put down a package that can regulate this type of fraud-based product presentation system for hundreds of thousands of pensioners so that pensioners who go to one of these occasions in good faith are not vulnerable. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-02-26-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-26-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the government, I welcome the KDNP initiative, because it is a very serious problem that affects many people, and this also coincides with the Government's intentions, which protects the interests of Hungarian families and consumers in particular. Indeed, a significant proportion of the products sold during these presentations do not have the beneficial characteristics to which businesses, in most cases, mislead consumers. In addition, the products are significantly overpriced compared to goods of a similar nature which are commercially available in the ordinary course of trade. These products are specifically intended to be sold by specialised companies to consumers who are vulnerable to age, indiscretion and health conditions, thus misleading, in many cases using unfair commercial practices. [[9.20]] Payment of products purchased in this way is, in the absence of self-sufficiency, a serious financial burden for the families concerned, the negative consequences of which may be felt for many years. In view of this, the government considers it important to address consumer protection problems related to product presentations, to detect businesses specialised in the deception of customers and to protect vulnerable consumer groups. As a result of significant legislative changes, the Consumer Protection Authority will impose a fine in the first case as of January 2014 if it experiences an infringement of older people or disabled people. In this way, it should not be without penalty if elderly people are specifically deceived at product presentations. As a result of the amendments which entered into force from 2014, in order to perform more effectively the official control of product presentations, the undertakings organising the product presentation must notify the notary of the event to be held at least 15 days earlier, the exact date and place of the related journey. The notary shall automatically forward the application to the Consumer Protection Authority. The annual monitoring and inspection programme of the Consumer Protection Authority has been regularly covering the monitoring of the sales of goods linked to the presentation of goods for years. In the framework of this, in 2013, the consumer inspectorates carried out 173 product presentations, and in 2014 99 product presentations were checked. However, the total prohibition of the activity referred to by you is contrary to EU Treaties, as it is contrary to the principle of the free movement of goods. Due to the severity of the problem, in 2014 we discussed further possible measures with representatives of the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Justice, the Hungarian Competition Authority, the National Consumer Protection Authority and the National Tax and Customs Office. There were then a number of proposals for tightening up, so we contacted the relevant ministries in order to develop detailed regulation. Our aim is to create a regulatory environment to address the problem, or at least to minimise it. In addition to legal tightening, consumer information is also supported by the annual proposal for support for consumer protection NGOs. Information on the risks of product presentations is of particular importance in the campaigns to be carried out on the basis of the tender. The work of civil society organisations in the field of consumer protection is also effective because they are able to reach consumers widely, through effective information channels and in an understandable way. Of course, the network and monitoring system of the Christian Democratic People's Party, which can in any way protect the most vulnerable, facilitate information and help to curb this harmful process, can be a major part of this process. If this is successful, and why not succeed, we can only thank the Christian Democratic People's Party for that. Of course, we continue to place sufficient emphasis on the ongoing review of the legislative environment, regular information to consumers and the conduct of controls. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda, entitled Current Affairs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are debating a major trade agreement which, if concluded, has an extraordinary impact not only on the economic life of the European Union but also on Hungary. This is the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States. In addition to breaking down customs duties between the two economies, the convention also means breaking down the so-called trade restrictive rules. There are several approaches to the Free Trade Convention, some studies see the potential for growth of the European economy, including Hungary's economy, while several European and Hungarian civil society organisations and parties see the deterioration of national sovereignty, the decline of certain economic sectors, the loss of jobs and the deterioration of food security. However, compared to its weight, the true content of the convention is hardly present in the domestic public discourse, and only one reason is that the negotiations have been largely conducted with the exclusion of the public. The fact that the Fidesz government first encrypted the impact studies that examined the effects of the convention in Hungary was also a major obstacle to clarity. Some have already been introduced to Members, but all studies are still not public. Nor does it help clarity that the Hungarian Government is changing its position on this matter in accordance with its internal policy objectives. Let me quote the sentences of Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Fidesz, said on 31 January 2014:. However, under all caution, I must say that if the European Union will not be able to conclude an investment and trade partnership agreement with the United States as soon as possible, we will hardly be able to maintain today's position in the world economy, so we, as Hungarians, want to see constructive and effective negotiations between the United States and the European Union. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Following the scandal of banning individual government officials from the United States on the grounds of corruption, Antal Rogán, leader of the Fidesz faction, said quite differently about this convention on 29 December last year. He said: "The pressure exercise is backed by a free trade agreement between the EU and the United States, the advantages and disadvantages of which should be discussed honestly. The agreement cannot be imposed on Central Europe, but it seems that the US embassies do not want an open debate, they want to force the ratification of the agreement in all European states. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, In these circumstances, it is therefore best to examine the state of the Hungarian economy when the Free Trade Agreement takes its final form and arrives as a challenge for Hungary. Can we even talk about free trade? Consider some examples, some areas. Let's take a look at the commercial sector. A thousand-billion-dollar VAT fraud, traffikmoty, tobacco, gambling doggies, Sunday closed, benefiting from the CBA, for the benefit of some operators, a state aid restriction of competition. Let's look at the construction: Public Machine Hegemony, Lőrinc Mészáros's billionaire orders, the expansion of the Simicska empire, managed public procurement, the draining of EU funds. Let's look at the media market: also the filling of the Simicska empire, government propaganda from billions of taxpayers, controlled advertising acquisitions, almost Internet tax. Let's look at the energy sector: hundreds of billions of nationalizations, secret pacts, hidden Paks investment, István Garancsi's gas offshore mushija, and Viktor Orbán's son-in-law's programmes for lighting and modernization. Let's look at the agricultural sector, agriculture: the distribution of land leases on a political basis, the support of Lőrinc Mészáros and other oligarchs for a billion EU funds. Let's look at multinationals: concluding strategic agreements, good and bad multi-state designation. Let's look at the banking sector: savings bank, tax payers of hundreds of billions of bank purchases, real estate investments of the Hungarian National Bank, foundation grants. I could tell you more, but I don't have five minutes to do this. Obviously, this can still be analysed today. Dear fellow Members, Do you think there is free trade in Hungary, and if the free trade agreement reaches the Hungarian economy in this condition, what happens to Hungary? Thank you very much.
u2015-02-26-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-02-26-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, I could even thank you for actually drawing attention to one of the most important issues currently on the agenda, which, by the way, we have about five hours to discuss in the coming period. However, I think it is appropriate to mention in as many places as possible the free trade negotiations between the European Union and the United States, given that the transatlantic relationship system is perhaps the most important link between the world economy and world trade. I also think that the first part of your speech has clearly shown how complicated, complex and complex this is, because the changes in the world economy, which have seen over the past period, show that there is very strong competition between regional trade integrations. [[9.30]] It is enough to think that the United States is currently conducting such negotiations not only with the European Union, but also, it seems, that it may put even more emphasis on the Pacific Partnership. Not to mention the unprecedented closeness of the US-China economic trade cooperation, the economic cooperation between the United States and China is constantly evolving. Well, my fellow Member, you know very well that the negotiations are taking place on the subject of TTIP. Rather, we are in the smaller part of the negotiations, the most important issues have not yet been addressed. Therefore, we cannot say with responsibility whether a good, useful agreement is reached for Hungary and the European Union in parallel with the interests of Hungary and Europe - if there is any agreement at all. I think that it is the government's duty, with Parliament, of course, to follow the negotiations as closely as possible, in which one of the most important aspects is transparency and the question of the public. Because if there is no transparency, it is difficult to judge whether the international agreement in question meets the interests of Hungary. However, there are some facts, honourable Member, which, of course, we will have a longer time to explain in the coming hours, but I would certainly like to draw your attention to them. Hungarian products and services are competitive in fair market conditions and competitive conditions. This is what our export data show. We have data for the first 11 months of last year, and we will be able to give you a full year's closure at the beginning of March. Thus, in the period from January to November, Hungarian exports were able to register an increase of around 5%, together with a loss of about $750 to $800 million in Hungarian exports to Russia and Ukraine due to the sanctions imposed on Russia, the embargoed response to it and the decline of the Ukrainian economy. So when you argue that the opening to the East has failed, because we have reduced exports to Russia by 15 percent, forgive me, this is a somewhat ridiculous argument. Because whoever says that either didn't hear about the sanctions or wants to ignore them, not to mention the embargo answer to that. But despite the fact that there is a very significant loss here, the total Hungarian exports were able to show a 5% increase. This is largely due to the fact that there are relations where we can measure the highest Hungarian exports of all time. For example, we have more exports to Germany in the first 11 months, more than EUR 21 billion than otherwise in all 2013. Or we were able to deliver the highest exports of all time to the United States last year, since we have exported more before November than we have in all of 2013. Not to mention that we increased our exports to the United States by 34 percent from 2012 to 2013, with an increase of about 20 percent until November last year. I would just like to point out, honourable Member, that Hungarian products and services are very competitive, so a solution can come out, an agreement can come out at the end of the TTIP negotiations, which is very favourable for Hungary. But whether such an agreement comes out or not, we cannot decide yet, so the Hungarian government will keep an eye on the events and keep the parliamentary parties informed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-26-12	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr President of the Jobbik Group, with the title of a party without consequences, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to express my pain, before I go to my political statement, that, on the occasion of the Memorial Day of the victims of communism, the National Assembly did not hold a memorial on this week's sitting. Of course, it could be said that it was yesterday, and there wasn't a sitting day at the time, but after a few hours, I think it would have been possible to bow your head. For example, on one Holocaust Memorial Day, at the time of László Kövér's Speakership, the Parliament was able to hold a memorial five days apart. Of course, I understand that this is a pain in the ass for you, as was the Trianon memorization, which they withdrew in protest in 1990, when the Speaker asked the Fidesz Members for a one-minute silent stand. We also know that the Memorial Day of the victims of communism, although it was adopted under the previous, first Orbán government, was not proposed by Fidesz. In 2000, Zoltán Pokorni proposed only the school commemoration of the Holocaust Memorial Day, thanks to a small farmer, Béla Horváth, that, by pointing out the double standard, Fidesz could not say no to a memorial day which, however, we see that it does not remember. Of course, it's even more painful than commemorations, the lack of action. After all, think of three of our most important anti-communist demands: to explore the past of state security, in particular the list of agents, to ban communist leaders from public life, so that I will not talk about their accountability, and to withdraw the communist luxury pensions that have been swept down every time, to the greatest pleasure of Béla Biszku, who still enjoys the hundreds of thousands of pensions that you provide him as the leader of the reprisals after 56. I do not wish, of course, to use the unethical and incorrect method of the MSZP to initiate an arbitrary silent set-up, as I am aware that this would not be elegant or house regulation. However, I wanted to draw the attention of the Parliament to this omission. Let me then talk about a party with no real consequences. There is a party here in Hungary that, with the approval of its national presidency, can commit illegal acts to record not only the data of its own sympathizers, but also, as Gábor Kubatov said, who are those commie calmers who, if any, are not Fidesz, because it is about him, but also, let's say, support the MSZP. Such an lawlessness, which, according to the leaked Cubatov recording, is happening with the knowledge of Fidesz's national presidency, is a serious crime that, if it weren't for the Fidesz, but for the Jobbik, it would certainly have been disbanded. However, it seems that Gábor Kubatov is free of everything. In fact, they have raised it to a government level, right, calling propaganda and data collection a national consultation, on which the Data Protection Commissioner has also stated that it is illegal. No wonder he was removed from office before the end of his mandate. More and more news is leaking. Last week, for example, we found out about the operation of this, as soon as a form, a document was published about how other parties' sympathizers, Fidesz' negatives, were booked, and who knows that they will be used for group redundancies, evaluation of applications, and even where, showing a world in Orwell. It also appeared in this article, from the testimony of a now disillusioned activist, that Gyöngyös, where there was a very intense struggle between Gábor Vona and the candidate of Fidesz, even the local leader of the Cubatov secret campaign team, paid activists specifically to tear up the posters of Gábor Vona. After such an unfair campaign and a very close result, a few hundred votes apart, I think we have the right to call on László Horváth to resign from his mandate and to compete fairly against Gábor Vona. However, we would like to be able to investigate the entire Cubatov scandal, so we propose a committee of inquiry. Because, on the one hand, all of our complaints have been rejected by the prosecution of Péter Polt without any investigation, and we have not been able to hear Gábor Kubatov, even in the debate of the law on electoral proceedings called lex Kubatov, for example, since he has not spoken at all in the current or previous term, and we know it well. Although he is an official Member of Parliament, Viktor Orbán has actually given him quite different tasks. Illegal tasks for which evidence, such as leaked recordings, has already been published. Therefore, we cannot leave this without consequences. That is why we would like a committee of inquiry to shed light on the operation of this whole secret and illegal system. And that, for example, in one of their online films, Áron Veress, president of the Fidesz youth department, who is also a member of the secret campaign team of Cubatov, received, in what currency, if any, the payments that could be accepted by different code names according to the information leaked last week. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Patyi Gergely will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-26-15	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The allegations made in the first part of the question must be partially refuted. I understand there was a memorial in the Upper House Hall yesterday. [[Ancient Novak: Not in Parliament.]] János Áder was at the House of Terror, I also attended a memorial with László Trócsányi. [[Ancient Novak: Not in Parliament. I said the National Assembly. Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: Calm down!]] Nevertheless, I think that all these commemorations have given us the opportunity to commemorate these issues in a worthy manner. [[9.40]] The second part of the questions asked is more my concern, these are questions of a legal nature. I am a little confused that the question of elections in 2014 is again raised and that there is mention of electoral fraud. As a lawyer, I can answer you on behalf of the government that there are currently three options for redress. These are known as objections, appeals and judicial review. In a rule of law, anyone can do so in an appropriate way. [[György Szilágyi: Yes in the rule of law!]] Given that Hungary is a rule of law and these instruments are available, anyone can take these steps at any time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Gergely Gulyás, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to speak before the agenda on behalf of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-02-26-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am pleased that, after speaking yesterday in the Felsőházi Hall on the Memorial Day of the Victims of Communism, I can speak here in Parliament before the agenda. Yesterday, more than 400 participants in the Parliament's Upper House Hall, including the survivors of the Malenkij robot [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] I had the opportunity, and there was a way to speak to the Secretary of State of Rétvári. We're very sorry we didn't see any better Members. [[Forebod Novak: We didn't get an invitation! The president's ringing the bell. Interjection: Don't yell. György Szilágyi: You didn't call!]] We sincerely hope that opposition representatives will be there next year. Compared to this, I can say that the media reported this, there was also a memorial in the House of Terror, but here in Parliament we remembered the victims of the Gulag on the Memorial Day of the victims of communism. We see - and this has been demonstrated by the speeches before the opposition agenda - that today the opposition does not want to talk about the substance in Hungary. The last few months have passed with hysteria, from which we can see that the opposition cannot accept the election defeat of the three national elections of last year. While we understand, of course, that a non-national local electoral success, achieved by an independent Member with left-wing support with many points of view, has produced a serious enthusiasm in the last nine years of defeating the left, but we believe that this will not be a fundamental turnaround. It will not report because if we look at how Hungary stands today, we can say that it must be recognised modestly, but it is worth remembering that the last four years, the government of the past four years, have had serious results. Compared to the employment number four years ago, 392,000 more people are working in Hungary today, and in four years the number of people employed has increased by virtually 400 thousand. Since the change of regime, as many people have never worked in Hungary as they do today, and most of them are jobs created on the market, so it is not even true that most of the new employees would be involved in an otherwise appropriate, important and socially justified public work programme; the majority of them have been employed by the market. The number of unemployed people has fallen by 135,000 in the last four years, with unemployment being around 7 percent. Such good data was also found during the last Fidesz administration period, 1998 and 2002. Industrial production has increased by 2.6 percent in the last year, and we can also be proud that it was Hungary, of the 28 Member States of the European Union, that was able to achieve the highest growth last year. The 3.5 percent economic growth over the last year is a good result, and this year, the debate between the various economic research institutes is only about how growth will develop in the range of 2.5 to 3.5 percent. We can therefore say that if we are talking about the real situation of the country, if the intention is not to create scandal, then, of course, with modesty and humility, but yet we have reason to talk about the results of the government that we managed to achieve after the previous socialist government bankrupted the country by 2008, and in 2010 it handed over government on the brink of bankruptcy. Moreover, it should also be borne in mind that one of the most pressing social problems has now been eliminated and eliminated, and this is the problem of foreign exchange lenders. And after a debate with the opposition on the exchange rate of more than 90 percent of foreign exchange loans in Swiss francs has been going on here for a long time, I would like to remind everyone that, as a result of the decision of the Curia and the law adopted by Parliament, on average, a foreign currency loan has decreased by 25 percent. This means exactly the same as if the debt did not decrease, but we converted Swiss franck loans at 192 HUF with a 25% discount. On average, this settlement results in exactly the same as if foreign exchange loans were converted at HUF 192. We believe that this is a great achievement, the banking sector had to bear a loss of 1000 billion, and the fall in exchange rates since then in relation to the Swiss franc at the same time proves that Hungarian economic policy has no effect on the exchange rate and that we acted with due caution when, even in the absence of support from the opposition, we adopted this law in the autumn. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I ask you, on behalf of the government, who would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-26-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we compare the economic and social processes of the past period and look at the last 30-40 years in Hungary, then we can have a very special era, four and a half years behind us. This was the period, the only period going back decades, when Hungary's public debt and the number of people living in poverty fell at the same time. Previously, people's standard of living improved and fewer people lived in poverty, but this only happened in Hungary during the past 40-50 years when the country was indebted. By credit governments were able to take welfare measures, by credit they managed to improve the economic situation in such a way that fewer people could live with little money and improve the standard of living, but there has not been an example of the fact that the state did not finance welfare expenditure from loans, but the economy could finally generate those resources, those revenues, the economy itself could change to absorb 400 000 new workers, for example, in public work or in market work, to reduce poverty. This is one of the real specialties of the past four and a half years, that economic improvement, the improvement of social processes, the decline in poverty went in parallel with the reduction in public debt, which has not been the case in Hungary for 40-50 years. The number of people exposed to multiple indicators of poverty has decreased by 241 thousand, which is a significant reduction of almost a quarter of a million in people who are either low in labour intensity, so they work little, let's say, for a family of two, a couple with a total working time of one week is not more than two days, or because they live below 60% of the average income, or because they are in some respect of nine other factors and are at least four below the minimum. Well, they're down by 241 thousand. These are not only Hungarian data, but data validated by Eurostat to the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. There are parts of this, such as the number of people with outstanding payments, to which the Member referred when he spoke about the solution to the foreign exchange credit issue. Here the number of people who were in backlog was reduced by 130,000. But if you look at the number of apartments that are not properly heated, the proportion of people living in them, the number of people who do not live in apartments that are not properly heated has decreased by 250 thousand. And if we look at the distribution of income in some countries at EU level, the difference between the lower and higher sections of society, we can also see that, while the total population of the European Union lives below the poverty threshold, 16.7 percent live below the poverty threshold, according to the same Eurostat statement, this is much smaller in Hungary, 2.4 percent lower than in the EU. But the biggest difference is for people over 65, because the pensioner, over 65, lives below the poverty threshold in the EU, 13,8 percent of the population, while in Hungary it is only 4.4 percent. In this respect, therefore, Hungary offers more security for pensioners, as in the case of pensioners, the standard deviation of income is much lower than elsewhere. [[9.50]] But the positive image of people in the future is not only shown by the figures that the Member said, but also by the 27 percent increase in the number of new apartments, 27 percent more people have built apartments in 2014 than before. And the licence applications were submitted at an even higher rate, increased by 30 percent. [[Lajos Korózs: It's the Canaan!]] the number of housing permits. This shows that people have the courage to plan in Hungary in the long run, trying to build a new house for themselves in the long run. But in the same way, the proportion of car purchases increased by 20.3 percent. It is a well-known fact that retail sales have also increased by 5.6 percent, and last year's end data is shown. This means that people also have more money for everyday expenses. On the one hand, we can see that more people are working, 400 thousand more people are working, but this also appears on the other side of the retail market, as 400 thousand people can spend much more money in shops, and families can spend much more money, as single-key family taxation has already left 700 billion forints for families. And this is also reflected in savings, because if you look at the private savings invested only in sovereign debt, it has also reached a record of HUF 35 billion, and we have been able to register a 7 percent increase per year in the last 12 months. This shows that economic and therefore social processes in Hungary have also started in a positive direction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. There will be a political debate on the dangers and effects of the Transatlantic Investment and Trade Partnership on sustainability and sovereignty initiated by Mr András Schiffer and other representatives. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/2258. has been received by my fellow Members. Under the House Committee agreement, the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now call on Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck to explain the course of the political debate. Here you go, notary.
u2015-02-26-21	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. By way of derogation from the adopted house rules, the representative of the Government, Mr Tibor Navracsics, Member of the European Commission, will be able to speak for a total of 15 minutes. The main speeches of each political group will then take place in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-02-26-22	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Commissioner Tibor Navracsics, whom I very much welcome, does not count on the time frame of the European Commission's speech. I would like to inform you that Members of the European Parliament with a political background, if they have indicated their intention to speak to the particular faction, may speak against the time frame of the factions. Members of the European Parliament without a parliamentary background and directly-registered MEPs may use a proportionate proportion of the time frame of independent representatives. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. The meeting room information board may monitor the use of time frames on a continuous basis. It was possible to double the time frame of the political groups until one hour before the opening of the meeting, which was announced by the LMP Group alone on the deadline. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain each time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2015-02-26-23	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided as follows: 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 50 minutes for the LMP Group - twice the timeframe - and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers. Tibor Navracsics, a member of the European Commission, can speak in a total time frame of 15 minutes. The speaking time of a directly applied MEP shall be the same as that of an independent Member; it shall be rounded up to one minute.
u2015-02-26-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The government's debate launch is now taking place in a 40-minute time frame. I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-02-26-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me, on behalf of the government, to thank the initiators of today's political debate, who will give us the opportunity to talk about the most important issue of the world economy and world trade that is currently on the agenda, perhaps from a European and Hungarian perspective, here today in Parliament. This is perhaps not an exaggeration, since the transatlantic relationship system is perhaps the strongest system in the world, since the EU Member States and the United States account for 46.7 percent of the world's economic performance overall, and trade between the EU's Member States and the United States represents almost one third of world trade, 30.4 percent of the world's trade, which, where appropriate, is close to an annual turnover of USD 1000 billion. However, at the beginning of today's political debate, one thing is certainly worth pointing out, and it is important that this also directs our thoughts on how the negotiations are taking place, and because the negotiations are taking place, we cannot report on the final result yet. That is why I would like to warn everyone not to make a final assessment of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, given that it may take a very long month or even years to talk about results at all. However, because of world trade processes, TTIP has a high priority, so, if I may, I would like to draw up the government's debate speech around four ideas: on the one hand, around the current processes of world trade and, on the other hand, the existing regional trade integrations, on the other hand, I would like to give you a third report on the state of play of the TTIP negotiations, and, fourthly, on the Hungarian aspects. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, among the current processes of world trade, we can clearly conclude that we are seeing a leaping increase in the value and volume of world trade, with which a significant geographical reorganization is taking place. The value and volume of world trade increased from the 1980s to around 2008-2009. This was essentially due to two important aspects and root causes: the progress of trade liberalisation, on the one hand, and the continuing deterioration of trade barriers and a significant reduction in transport, logistics and communication costs linked to trade. At the beginning of the eighties, we saw that global emissions and world trade volumes increased at nearly the same rate, but from 1985 until the crisis broke out about 2008, the dynamics of world trade volume on average almost doubled over the growth rate of world GDP. Here we can list five factors. On the one hand, with the end of the Cold War era, the arms spending could now be used elsewhere by the countries. [[10.00]] On the other hand, the Internet and the digital economy have started a leap forward; on the third hand, significant reform and catching-up processes have started in large economies called developing economies, including China and India. Fourthly, the process of outsourcing production has been strengthened; and fifthly, a system of production networks and global value chains has been developed across a wide range of countries. One of the very important features of world trade change was the significant increase in the weight of countries previously known as developing countries, since while their external trade represented around 34% of world trade in the 1980s, their share of world trade is now 50 percent. Not only has the external economic performance of these countries increased, but trade between these countries has also increased enormously, and Asia's growth engine, China, has slowly taken the lead in world trade, and today we are talking about the world's largest exporter, since China's weight in the world economy and global trade exports is 11 percent in total, so 11 percent of all exports worldwide are from China. Ladies and gentlemen, Not only has world trade changed over the past period, but there have also been significant changes in trade within and between groups of countries. The trade weight of developed countries in the region has stagnated or decreased slightly, but the turnover of developing countries has increased significantly, not least as a result of the different preferential trade agreements and the regional incentive effect of global or regional value chains. I would like to point out that 53 percent of Asian countries' external trade is now taking place among themselves, mainly at the expense of their external trade performance in Europe and North America. In Europe, this seems to be a very significant internal trade here, representing 72-73 percent of all external trade by 2008, but then the internal trade rate in European countries began to decrease significantly in all European external trade. Asia was first and foremost the winner of this process, and the North American continent stabilised around 7-8 percent. In the case of North American countries, this seems to have reduced Europe's weight to about 15 percent, and it is clear that Asian countries have taken over the main role in external trade in North American countries. Since the crisis broke out, we have seen a significant reduction in the rate of world trade growth. This is due to the weakening of global demand, structural problems of growth and the slowing down of liberalisation processes. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also important to say a few words about the fact that the European Union's competitiveness has also started to decline as a result of the challenges posed by the crisis. Our world trade weight - we are talking about Europe - has been reduced by about 5 percentage points between 2008 and 2013. This means that we now have about one third of world trade. Of course, the global trade winners of the European crisis were Asian countries, which were able to register more than 4 percentage points in world exports between 2008 and 2013 and 5 percentage points in world imports, so our share is now about 32 percent on both sides. Ladies and gentlemen, However, of course, China's role in the world economy and world trade has increased spectacularly over the past period, until the United States and the European Union continue to be an important growth pole for the world, and our cooperation can significantly multiply the power of our positions. Ladies and gentlemen, If you allow us, it is worth a few thought to dwell on the fact that many regional trade agreements in the world economy are currently in competition with each other and are also in competition with time. There are now several regional trade and economic integrations that fundamentally reshape former world trade, global economy power and positions. The first of these integrations should be the Pacific Free Trade Zone. Here we had the opportunity to have a word with our fellow Member Bertalan Tóth before the agenda. The Pacific Free Trade Zone Agreement, called TPP and shortened, appears to be somewhat ahead of negotiations with the European Union in the United States' preference order. TPP was launched in 2010 and 12 North and South American and Asian countries are involved in these negotiations, including, of course, the United States and Japan. These countries account for 40% of international GDP in total and have a share of one third of the world trade market. During the TPP negotiations, it was stated that the agreement would be open and therefore open to other countries for accession. The Pacific Free Trade Convention aims to cover almost the full spectrum of external economic relations and to regulate new areas such as e-commerce, working conditions, environmental standards and global supply chains. There is, of course, a lot of speculation about the conclusion of negotiations. There is not one of these which does not exclude that these negotiations can be concluded by summer 2015, but we cannot say for sure here too. We know that during these negotiations there is also a debate on dispute resolution between the investor and the host State, which may also be one of the most important aspects of the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. It is quite certain that the successful conclusion of this series of free trade negotiations can have a significant impact on the development of the competitive position of European economic operators in the region, since if a free trade zone is established there, it means that European companies may have to face more sharp competitive conditions than the situation currently exists. Another such regional integration, which also affects world trade and global economic processes, is the regional comprehensive economic partnership in which China, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand negotiate alongside the ten countries of ASEAN. Their world trade weight is around 27 percent, and the original idea is that the negotiations will be concluded this year. It is also worth talking about the Asia-Pacific Free Trade Area, as outlined at the APEC summit in November 2014, with the possible participation of 21 Member States on China's initiative. It is significant that 40 percent of the world's population, 44 percent of world trade and 54 percent of world GDP could be included in this agreement. We also need to talk about China, Japan and South Korea's free trade negotiations, which will also have a significant impact on the global economy and world trade. However, in addition to major Asian integrations and TTIP, we should recall the idea of the Eurasian Economic Union, which has also been given a great deal of emphasis on the European Union's agenda in recent years, since the ideas that a continuous relationship, consultation and partnership between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union could certainly be logical. Overall, the Eurasian Economic Union is capable of delivering some $2,450 billion of GDP, which proves its importance. However, ladies and gentlemen, we also need to talk here and now about the economic-commercial cooperation between China and the United States. Of course, we are constantly hearing the criticisms that we and the Central and Eastern European region are facing when we are constantly trying to strengthen our cooperation with China. [[10.10]] Here we see that the trade-economic relationship between China and the United States has never been as close as it is today. Trade between the two countries reached USD 591 billion by the end of 2014, which represents a 5-percent annual growth rate. And if we look at how the trade link between the United States and China developed between 2008 and 2014, then we can see that there has been a 45 percent increase here. We also know that China is the first in terms of world exports, the second in the United States, while the United States is the first in terms of world imports, and the second in terms of China. Here, therefore, the close economic and trade cooperation of these two countries, which we have never seen, is also an important aspect when we talk about world trade and the world economy and their future processes. Allow me to say a few words about free trade agreements concluded or planned to be concluded by the European Union so far. We have so far established a bilateral free trade agreement with the Republic of Korea, negotiations with Singapore have practically been concluded, and negotiations with Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, India and Japan are ongoing. The negotiations on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada were concluded in August 2014, with a legal and linguistic review of the negotiated text and annexes to the agreement, followed by a translation into the official languages of the Member States of the European Union. The European Commission is currently planning to ask the Council to authorise the signing of the agreement only in the second half of 2015. In addition, the European Union has a temporary free trade agreement with Peru and Colombia, and we also have a free trade agreement with Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and the Faroe Islands. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to inform you about the state of play of the negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. At the summit held in November 2011, the European Union and the United States decided to set up a High Level Group, which published a report in February 2013 which concluded that a comprehensive free trade agreement aimed at removing a wide range of barriers to trade and investment would offer the most positive economic benefits, boost economic growth and job creation on both sides of the Atlantic. On 14 November 2013, the European Council finalised and adopted guidelines for the European Commission negotiating on behalf of the European Union setting out the mandate and the framework thereof. On the basis of these guidelines, TTIP could be a comprehensive free trade agreement aimed at improving market access for goods, services and public procurement, reducing regulatory barriers to trade and investment, and strengthening regulatory cooperation between the parties involved and coherence between rules. The three rounds of negotiations held in 2013 were essentially exploratory. After that, substantive negotiations took place, with the first three steps: the exchange of initial tariff offers, the trade in services and the exchange of public tenders. If I may, I would now like to provide you with brief information on all three aspects. The exchange of initial tariff offers took place on 11 February 2014. However, the level of initial bid ambition in the United States was significantly lower than that of the European Union, because while the European Union is ready to liberalise 90 percent of the tariff lines immediately, which is 95 percent of the total volume of trade, the United States has proposed to break down 75 percent of the tariff lines; this would represent around 67 percent of bilateral trade. The negotiators of the European Union then told the United States that specific market opening negotiations can only continue if the United States is ready to offer a tariff offer with a similar content and level of ambition to the European Union. From the point of view of Hungary, it is important to point out that, when negotiating customs offers for agricultural and industrial products, we have achieved that the European Union does not provide for a complete breakdown of customs duties in the case of our most important agricultural sensibilities, such as poultry, pig and beef, and sweet corn. Secondly, in the case of our industrial sensitivities, we have succeeded in ensuring that the customs dismantling schedule gives the domestic industry the right time to adapt. Thus, this means that more than 10 percent of all adjustments that spread the effects of the tariff breakdowns reflect a Hungarian request. The second area is the area of trade in services, where initial offers were exchanged at the beginning of the summer of 2014. The offer that the European Union has made will remain within the framework of Hungarian legislation and will adapt to our international obligations and leave us considerable policy room. In this case, it was the United States, contrary to the exchange of customs offers, the United States, who was somewhat short of this level of ambition. After that, the exchange of tenders could no longer take place, since the development of key parameters determining the level of ambition of tenders could not be jointly implemented. In this context, the US is faced with difficulties primarily in covering sub-federal levels, i.e. states and municipalities with substantive obligations. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, By mid-2014 the negotiations stopped somewhat, but this was not only because of the previous content of the negotiations, but also because of the political agenda of the European Union and the United States, since the European Parliament elections were followed by the creation of a new European Commission and the autumn interim congress election in the United States. Further discussions focused on technical work on regulations that are an important part of TTIP. They are moving slowly, but I would not overdramatize it, because here we have to solve issues that are perhaps the most complex of all the issues that are included in TTIP. The examination of standardisation and compliance certification systems and the various industry regulations therefore require significant technical preparation, but according to preliminary analyses, the majority of the expected positive economic impacts of TTIP for the European Union may not stem from market opening, but rather from reducing regulatory barriers to trade and investment, and progress in this area is indeed more significant and therefore requires more time-consuming technical preparation. However, by improving regulatory coherence, creating equivalence of technical and technical specifications, businesses and business organisations will be able to reduce or save costs resulting from differences in the different rules and additional costs and administrative burdens resulting from unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, One of the most important issues in the TTIP negotiations is the transparency and publicity of the negotiations not only from a Hungarian point of view but also from a European point of view. In this context, there is a clear demand and an increasingly clear demand for European public opinion. As a result, the European Commission launched a consultation, the result of which is likely to be heard from Commissioner in the coming minutes. However, on 9 October 2014, following a previous decision by the Council, the Commission published the EU-wide offensive targets to be achieved in the negotiations and the TTIP negotiating directives containing defensive sensitivities to be protected and guidance on them. In January 2015, the Commission's website published a brief summary of TTIP negotiating topics and a summary reflecting certain EU positions. [[10.20]] On 21 November 2014, we adopted a conclusion at the Foreign Affairs Council in which we confirmed the expectation that the geostrategically important convention could make a significant contribution to achieving the European Union's goals of creating jobs and generating growth. At the same time, the text of the conclusions included a Hungarian proposal that TTIP should maintain the possibility of maintaining our regulatory room for manoeuvre and ensure a high level of standards that comply with our EU and national legislation. This proposal and this text, which has been included in the conclusions of the Hungarian proposal, have been extremely important to address some of our sensitive issues, such as maintaining the GMO exemption and maintaining environmental, health and consumer protection standards. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to give you a brief update on the future agenda. Three rounds of negotiations are planned in the first half of 2015, focusing mainly on technical work, and sensitive market access issues requiring political decisions can be discussed in the post-summer period. What we see - we have had a chance to talk about today - is that the United States is also conducting parallel negotiations on the establishment of a Pacific Free Trade Zone. Obviously, the agenda for those negotiations will also influence the agenda for the TTIP negotiations. The eighth round of negotiations was also held on 2 February. Here, according to our expectations, no progress has been made in matters requiring a political decision. However, the most important development of this round of negotiations was that at the hearing on animal and plant health issues, the United States proposed the authorisation of modern agricultural technologies. Here, however, attention should be drawn to Hungarian sensitivities, including the GMO exemption, which has been laid down in our Fundamental Law. By the way, in parallel with the Hungarian interests, the Commission has called the need for this American argument into question, and has also stipulated that the concept must be clarified for the first time, which the United States intends to negotiate, and that it is only then possible to turn to the specifics. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, from our point of view, the most important question is that if an agreement is reached at the end of course, what will the impact of TTIP on Europe and its effects on Hungary will be. Of course, there are impact assessments carried out by various international institutions, but I would not quote them here just because the outcome of the negotiations is clearly extremely uncertain. We don't know if there will be an agreement at the end, and we don't know how that agreement will look. Therefore, only very uncertain estimates can be made of the impact on the European economy and on the Hungarian economy. They move on rather broad horizons. However, in order to determine the Hungarian aspects, it is worth recording some facts. First of all, the Hungarian economy is an open economy, so our national performance is fundamentally determined by our export performance and the amount of investment we can attract to Hungary. Therefore, as a general truth, I would like to state here that any agreement that removes obstacles, which reduces administrative burdens, or which simplifies regulations may be good, can be beneficial from the Hungarian national perspective, from the point of view of the Hungarian national interest, but this is a general truth, we do not know how the TTIP negotiations will take place, and the final result will be appropriate. Then, as a fact, we can also record - that was already mentioned here before the agenda - that Hungarian products and services can be found in a fair and competitive environment with equal opportunities. The majority of Hungary's external trade, about three quarters or perhaps even a little more, is about 80 percent in the EU's single internal market, and our external trade balance has shown a clear surplus here, has been around USD 12-14 billion since 2010, and according to the figures at the end of 2014, it is estimated that it will be well above USD 10 billion. As far as bilateral relations between Hungary and the United States are concerned, the United States has a fundamentally open market, and in 2014 we can book the highest exports of all time from Hungary to the United States. We will definitely make an export record, because we only have data until November, but until November last year we exported more to the United States than we did all year 2013, and the US market has now become the largest export market in Hungary outside Europe. Until November last year, we had $3.5 billion in exports to the United States, which means that by the end of 2014, we were able to double our 2010 turnover with the United States. In this bilateral relationship, our foreign trade surplus increased by five times compared to 2010, reaching around 1.6 billion dollars by the end of last year. Ladies and gentlemen, As we look at the structure of the Hungarian external economy, we can say that due to the various international, intergovernmental simplifications and barriers, the benefits can be mostly in the field of road vehicle manufacturing, the chemical industry, the pharmaceutical industry, medical devices, infocommunications products and services. In addition to the direct increase in turnover, it is also important to know that Hungarian companies are in many cases involved as suppliers through global value chains, mainly in Western European companies exporting to the United States. Thus, of course, if it is easier for western European companies to enter the US market, trade there, it is able to drive water to the expense of Hungarian companies. At the same time, when we look at the risks that this free trade agreement could pose to the Hungarian economy, we need to prepare not only for the effects on the domestic market, but also to pay attention to the fact that the benefits granted to the United States can also lead to fierce competition in our European export markets. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the Government of Hungary is constantly monitoring the negotiations, and we pay particular attention to ensuring that the agreement that may be reached takes account of domestic economic and social sensitivities and is in line with the government's objectives of economic growth and work. they relate to the creation of space. Accordingly, we are also in constant consultation with the actors of the Hungarian economy. So far, under the leadership of State Secretary István Mikola, we have consulted 40 economic and social organisations and interest representatives, and we will continue to hold this consultation in the future. The negotiating mandate given to the European Commission, in line with the needs of the Hungarian Government, clearly states that EU and national legislation protecting human life and health, animal health and animal welfare, the environment, food safety and the interests of consumers should not be the subject of a deal, and the free trade agreement should not lead to the relaxation of these regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with other EU Member States, we have succeeded in excluding audiovisual services from TTIP negotiations, and we have also set out the expectation that, in the case of public services, negotiations should not lead to an outcome that would undermine the regulatory powers of national governments in any way and that, for some agricultural products, only partial, quantitatively limited market opening was considered acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, This is also where it is necessary to ensure our GMO exemption. The European Commission's negotiating mandate does not cover changes to EU and national rules on genetically modified organisms, so there is no threat to the GMO exemption of Hungarian agriculture under the Fundamental Law. [[10.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the Offensive side, if we call it that, with this specialised jargon in Brussels, it is particularly important for Hungary to improve the conditions for access to the market for economies that are strongly integrated into European production networks, including automotive and component manufacturing or news technology, and to reduce barriers, costly and bureaucratic procedures, other than customs duties on goods, services and public procurement, on the US market. As the European Union is currently showing a significant trade surplus in agricultural trade vis-à-vis the United States, we expect that the export conditions for processed food will continue to improve and, in this area, we will pay particular attention to the appropriate protection of geographical indications. I would like to say a few words on perhaps one of the most controversial issues, and this is the investment protection chapter. The aim of the European Union is to increase the attractiveness of Europe for foreign investors; it aims to ensure as much protection and security as possible for European investors in the United States; and the European Union wants to strike an appropriate balance between the regulatory right of States and the need to protect foreign investors in the investment protection chapter. Investment agreements may also provide for the issue of investor-state dispute resolution, but past examples make us cautious here, since such an agreement may be extremely risky from an economic point of view. In the view of the United States, a foreign investor should be entitled to the principle of non-discrimination, i.e. national treatment and the highest benefit, even before the investment is set up. At the same time, according to the European Union's approach, dispute resolution between the investor and the State can only be initiated in the event of breaches of commitments undertaken by the relevant government for the treatment of the investor's establishment. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Hungarian point of view, we have indicated our fundamental reservations from the outset that the scope of TTIP should also cover the special dispute settlement mechanism between foreign investors and host States. According to Hungarian opinion, there is no need for this type of procedure between advanced legal systems, such as OECD Member States, which have developed and reliable legal systems. I would like to inform you in a few words of the procedure for adopting the TTIP agreement. Since this is an agreement that covers issues other than those falling within the competence of the EU, the agreement will be set up as a joint agreement and national parliaments should be ratified at the end of the negotiations. Once the negotiations have been concluded, the texts will be reviewed legally and technically, initialled, translated into the official languages of the European Union, and the European Commission will then draw up, prepare a Council decision authorising signature and provisional application, and the agreement will be formally signed on the basis of the adopted Council Decision and, in addition to ratification of the national parliaments, the European Commission will also have to obtain the consent of the European Parliament. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Government of Hungary is monitoring the negotiations closely. We consider these negotiations to be of great importance, especially given the fact that we believe that the European Union can be strong if it is open to cooperation, and in the current situation, we think that the shutting down is a wrong answer. We also see that there is a competition with regard to regional trade integrations, the European Union must avoid falling under the bench between the two seats, but there is no need to sign a negative agreement just to have such an agreement. In the course of the negotiations, Hungary's fundamental expectation is transparency and the public's expectation that there will be no notion that there will be mysterious negotiations behind closed doors. So for now, the outcome is completely uncertain. If the European Commission's mandate were to be met, it would certainly be beneficial for the Hungarian economy. At the same time, I would also like to assure you that the Hungarian Government will propose only an agreement for ratification that meets Hungary's national and national interests. Under the leadership of State Secretary István Mikola, the consultation will also be maintained in the coming period, both with the parliamentary parties and with professional organisations and with interest representatives. Mr President, And I would like to inform you that since today, in the spirit of our isolation, the foreign ministers of Ghana and Great Britain are also coming to visit us - this is what a general Thursday day looks like in an isolated country [[Defiance.]] - so since these two foreign ministers are visiting today, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will be represented by Secretary of State István Mikola during the debate. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-26	Thank you very much, Minister. We now have a speech from Commissioner Tibor Navracsics, a member of the European Commission, within a 15-minute timeframe. Commissioner, you will speak here on the stand. Here you go, officer.
u2015-02-26-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, let me thank the representatives of all the parties and all the factions for allowing the European Commission to state its position and inform the Hungarian Parliament about the content and state of the negotiations on the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States. As far as I know, this is the first time a member of the European Commission has spoken in the Hungarian Parliament. Marking; I must say I am sorry that it took more than ten years to wait for this in Hungary. At the same time, I trust that this will occur several times in the future, and I am always at the disposal of Parliament, and my fellow Commissioners are at the disposal of Parliament, if any question arises. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Minister, you have already explained in detail the state and content of the negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement, so allow me, in the time available to me, not so much to deal with the breakdown of the details as to approach the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States in one respect. This one aspect, in my experience, is about the majority of concerns. Worry can be described, not only in Hungary, but also in several other Member States that make up the European Union, whether it is not possible for the European Commission, as if free from its mandate and Member States' controls, to make its own deal with the United States which is contrary to the interests of Europe, to oppose the national interests of the Member States of the European Union and to deliver Europe, to deliver the European Union, to deliver European national economies or, where appropriate, regional economies to the United States, and thus to form an agreement which is fundamentally detrimental to the European Union. If I may, I will focus on this concern, and I would like to comment on this on a few nodes. I believe that from the point of view of the European Commission, when it deals with the Member States and keeps in touch with the negotiations on free trade agreements, it should focus on two main guarantee groups. The first is the group of institutional guarantees and the other is the group of substantive guarantees. Let us first look at institutional guarantees. The European Commission cannot stand alone or be able to get rid of the interests of the Member States, citing a quote, because the European Commission has received a negotiating mandate and has received this mandate from the Member States. The Council has defined the content of this mandate; as is usually the case with mandates, the European Commission cannot go beyond its limits, and therefore, every time it takes a position in the negotiations, it may do so only within the mandate defined by the Council, or if there is a new circumstance under which the mandate must be re-interpreted, the Commission must go back to the Council. [[10.40]] Thus, unlike Member States, the Commission cannot take a position. As a result, any critical issues and considerations that arise during the negotiations will immediately become the subject of consultation with the Member States, and otherwise the mandate will also be followed up and defined under scrutiny by the European Parliament. What are the sensitive points that give Hungary the content of this mandate and, where appropriate, its special importance? Minister of State said the Hungarian specialities in general or the points on which the committee should pay particular attention when it represents its position, not only because of Hungary, but also from the point of view of other Member States. The first issue is the possible impact of the FTA on the economic growth and economic position of the European Union and its Member States. According to recent impact assessments, the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States will generally have a positive impact on the economic growth of the European Union. With regard to Hungary, this means that, according to the current impact studies, this results in a 15-20 percent increase in exports in Hungarian-American trading conditions in the medium term and an automatic increase of 0.2-0.3 percent in GDP, which is calculated to result in up to 20-30 thousand new jobs in the Hungarian economy. Concerns and sensitive points can be found primarily in agriculture and food safety. With regard to genetically modified foods, Minister, we have already said and I do not wish to repeat this, and it seems that we are safe in this area, the European Commission and not only Hungary, but other Member States also demand that the GMO exemption be maintained and that the issue of GMOs should not generally be the subject of negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement. At the same time, one of the fundamental points of the Commission's mandate is that the so-called European model and so-called European values should not in any way be damaged by the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States, which would make it possible to highlight two areas that are important to us, Hungarians, and also to the European Union as a whole. One is animal and plant health, which is the basis for healthy and safe food. I have already mentioned the guarantees on GMO release and the fact that the draft free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States strengthens the rights of the European Union as enshrined in the WTO veterinary and phytosanitary agreement, i.e. the right and privilege of the European Union to regulate remain. So the guarantees that have been in force so far remain. The other area is the area of culture, education and public services, as in many Member States it is possible to see the observation that the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States opens up those areas to the Americans and allows US investment to take place and, where appropriate, privatisation in areas that have traditionally been blocked from privatisation in Europe, as well as public services. The essence of the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States is that public services are not subject to the free trade agreement. What a country considers to be a public service and where it draws its limits is a Member State competence. Consequently, if a Member State defines public services in its own legislation, through its own legislation, as being part of different areas, it should no longer be subject to a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States in relation to that country. In general, we can say what Jean-Claude Juncker said, the President of the Commission in the European Parliament in the summer of 2014 in his presentation in the European Parliament that free trade negotiations between the European Union and the United States will not be the subject of cultural heritage or of Europe's culture or cultural identity, and we will not be able to deliver culture to free competition. Even from a point of view of the content of such an area, which has raised concerns in a more general way, and which has also been referred to by the Minister: this arbitration procedure in the field of investment protection. Let me say that, according to our statement, the European Commission has shown that an agreement on an arbitration procedure of a similar nature is currently in force in the Member States of the European Union. More than 50 of these are also in Hungary. These arbitration procedures and these conventions are in place, which does not, of course, mean that the concerns would be unfounded in all respects, but means that the European Commission is paying particular attention to this agreement and to the specific provisions of the agreement, as concerns have been raised not only in Hungary but also in other Member States. In general, let me say, even with regard to substantive guarantees, that investment protection and arbitration must not affect the right of the European Union and the Member States to adopt rules on social, environmental, security, public health and public security issues affecting the stability of the financial system in accordance with their respective competences, while respecting the prohibition of discrimination, nor should the agreement prevent the protection of cultural diversity. So basic European values are also protected here. Moreover, the Commission intends to ensure the transparency of its mandate by continuously updating its negotiating position on the European Commission's website. Therefore, those who are interested in this and wish to verify the Commission's negotiations and the Commission's mandate in substance can do so because they can find the mandate. With regard to guarantees of content, let me also say that not only is the mandate important, but also the transparency of all its elements, and the European Commission, as shown in the present example, wants to act with complete openness and transparency, so that any time in the future, if there are issues in the debate that require information from the European Commission, we are of course available. In the end, let me mention another institutional guarantee, perhaps the most important institutional guarantee, because not only at the beginning of the process, there is an institutional guarantee that the European Commission can only act within the framework of the mandate defined by the Council, so it cannot confront the positions of the Member States, but it can also be found at the end of the process. In other words, the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States cannot enter into force without the consent of the governments of the Member States, in this case without the consent of the Hungarian Government and without the approval of the parliaments of the Member States, in this case the Hungarian Parliament. So it is not only the starting point that has been checked by the Member States, but also the end point. This is relatively simple in the case of Hungary, since Hungary is relatively simple in terms of territorial power-sharing, here only the Parliament will have to discuss and then vote on the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States, but depending on its content, it can also mean that regional parliaments will have to decide, if appropriate. In the case of Germany, this may also mean the provincial parliaments and, in the case of Belgium, it may also mean the legislation of the linguistic communities and regions. So, overall, even at the end of the negotiations, which seems not to be in the near future, but even after the negotiations have been concluded and after the Council's agreement, a long legislative ratification process will be launched, during which there will be ample opportunity for national parliaments and, where appropriate, subnational parliaments to exercise their powers of control. [[10.50]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for your interest, thank you very much for listening, and thank you very much for your interest on behalf of the European Commission. Please consider the aspects that the European Commission has presented to you here. I can assure you that, as has been the case so far, the Commission will continue to be available in the field of information and, throughout the negotiations, it will seek a good agreement with the United States of America, in the interests of the Member States. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-28	Thank you very much, officer. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Zsolt Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will give his speech from here on the platform. We'll wait for Congressman to wake up on the stand. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-26-29	Mr President, Dear Commissioner, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Members from the European Parliament and the Hungarian Parliament! Historians say that the religious wars in Europe were closed by the peace of religion in Augsburg in 1555. This seems to contradict what is happening in Hungary on the subject of the free trade zone with America, which is short for the English name TTIP or the English pronunciation "Títíp" in Hungary. On one side there are the Messianistic Titipians, who believe that TTIP brings home our country and the entire Western civilization, even the golden age of the world, so they think that TTIP should be simply loved. On the other side, there are the anti-Tistipian exorcists, who believe that every bad root will be TTIP, which should not be loved, and that at the best time it will be buried in history. Yes, I can see that this sect is also present in the Hungarian Parliament, they are exorcists, and interestingly they form a very specific coalition, the representatives of Jobbik and LMP together are members of this cult. And, of course, like any religious dispute, it also produces its own, agnostics, who think it doesn't matter whether the TTIP is good or bad, because a small part of our foreign trade is directed to the US, so TTIP will not really affect us. Fellow Members! I would like to convince this House that it is time to put an end to the religious war on TTIP so that it does not create another impenetrable internal trenches system of Hungarian public life. And don't let the discussion about TTIP be about anything other than the point of the TTIP issue, just as the religious wars used to be about something other than the essence of Christian creeds. If we are to switch from the religious war to a rational debate on pragmatic national interest enforcement, we must therefore clarify a few issues in this matter. First of all, as regards Hungary's sovereignty, the most emotional issue, we must state that, according to Fidesz's interpretation of the law, TTIP cannot be born without the approval of national parliaments. If not, it cannot be born temporarily without the approval of the Hungarian Parliament, so dialogue, the basis and guarantee of rational dialogue is that Fidesz insists that without the approval of the Hungarian Parliament, TTIP cannot be created. Then: the concept of a free trade agreement is thought of by most of us as elimination of customs duties among the parties involved. That's the purpose of TTIP, of course, but that's not the point. Between the EU and the US, they want to be truly innovative in removing so-called non-tariff barriers to trade. Of these, harmonisation of regulations is highlighted. However, if the EU harmonises its own internal rules with the US, it also affects us in the flesh, no matter how much trade we have with the US. One of the priorities of our foreign policy must therefore be to influence this process according to our interests. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán rightly said recently, let's open the window between the European Union and the United States, but let's also put mosquito nets on this window. However, as far as trade itself is concerned, we are not only affected by Hungarian-American bilateral traffic. The main finding of the impact assessment carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2013 on the domestic effects of TTIP is that TTIP will have a significant influence on our European export markets, in particular Germany. What happens to the German market is also a matter of life and death for us. It is therefore necessary to take into account what the Germans are trying to do with the TTIP, and therefore we must support the German TTIP policy on all issues in which we are not particularly opposed to one of our interests. On the other hand, we need to pursue a policy to prepare for the effects of TTIP in Germany and in general in Europe. Thirdly, it is important not to deal rationally with the so-called veto right to ratify the future TTIP Treaty as a matter of faith. Because, on the one hand, it is true that any rule of law under its veto right can prevent TTIP from being created as an EU treaty, but on the other hand, who is threatening a lot about a treaty under negotiation with veto rights, in addition to being ridiculous, risks isolation and the rejection of the possibility of influence. Ladies and gentlemen, Fourthly, some comments on the dispute settlement procedure. On both sides of the Atlantic, there is a heated debate about this so-called "investor-to-state distribution" system. In view of the differences, the dispute resolution clause has also been suspended until the European Commission is satisfied that the new proposals provide sufficient assurance that the possible agreement does not prejudice the jurisdiction of the national courts of the Member States. The arbitration panel is considered by critics to be a forum that favours sellers or investors rather than consumers, which is why they are opposed to binding arbitration, rather than emphasising the diversity of forums. By the way, French-German national legislation and even European law rule out mandatory arbitration. The question is therefore open, one way or another, but the failure of TTIP is unlikely to be caused by this question. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Fifth, transparency. Cecilia Malmström, who entered the Commissioner's office in November 2014, saw the rightful dissatisfaction and outrage, promised and launched a new approach. Some of the negotiations have become public [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the other part?]] , position papers, so-called factsheets, legal documents were published by the Commission. At the same time, Emily O, Reilly, EU ombudswoman, launched an investigation into the TTIP enforcement of transparency. In this regard, the Commission acknowledged its efforts to enforce transparency, but also called for further steps: access to certain negotiating documents and strengthening the right of participation. Sixth time: consultation with the Commission. Another very important measure by the Commission was to launch an online consultation on the dispute settlement procedure between investors and States. The consultation took place between 27 March and 13 July of the previous year. Such consultation has long been a standard formula, but it has now been extremely successful. Over 150,000 comments and opinions were received. The Commission has since published its report. On this basis, the Commission acknowledged that there are reasonable reservations about the dispute settlement mechanism. This includes the fact that the French Senate has recently taken a similar decision. Dear Parliament, It is therefore necessary to recall that the Commission considers further consultations to be important during 2015, including with Member States. National parliaments should also play a role in this, as I hope there will be further dialogue within the parliamentary framework that we are conducting here. [[11.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Preparation is therefore a key issue today. TTIP will basically determine the scope of the current Hungarian economy, the direction of Hungarian development, so we do not waste our precious time on whether to love TTIP or not. We need to support TTIP not because we love it particularly, but because it gives us the right to interfere with its performance. We can therefore have one task, and we must also make the Hungarian economy, Hungarian society and the Hungarian nation successful in TTIP. TTIP must therefore be used for the benefit of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian nation, and today it is the most important challenge for the Hungarian foreign economy and foreign policy. TTIP urgently draws attention to the fact that it is finally time to put economic interests at the heart of our foreign policy. The Hungarian foreign economy policy must present a strategy, i.e., if TTIP is created, Hungary must be one of the biggest beneficiaries. We will spend today's debate usefully if we add creative thoughts to this strategy. Based on the results of the impact assessment mentioned above and the results of the period since then, I see that our TTIP policy strategy should be grouped around three concepts: the TTIP awareness of the Hungarian economy, the sustainability of TTIP and the acquisition of allies to these two. As far as awareness is concerned, it is necessary to do so because the TTIP cannot be used well simply by government policy, the good use of TTIP depends on the entire Hungarian economy, the economic sectors. However, what one does not know can not be used, but it may take advantage of him. Hungarian sectoral economic operators must be very well aware of the negotiations, the expected outcome, if we want these economic enterprises to be successful in a world shaped by TTIP in its own image. When the negotiations started, when we started preparing the first impact assessments, there was TTIP from the faucet in Western press products. However, many of the surveyed people in Hungary asked what it was all about. Therefore, perhaps with a slight exaggeration, it can be said that the impact assessment in itself contributed to the building of TTIP consciousness. Government consultation or, if we put it under a different name, a TTIP dialogue is also needed in three respects. Dialogue between the Hungarian government and the key players of the Hungarian economy is needed [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the people.]] to help the state prepare for the TTIP world and to represent their signals in negotiations within the EU on TTIP. On the other hand, there is a need for dialogue between Hungary and the other countries expected to participate in the TTIP in order to be able to share accurate information with our economic operators. And thirdly, this dialogue is needed between Hungary and the main economic powers left out of TTIP, especially China, so that our economic operators can prepare for the effects that TTIP will have on trade and investment with countries other than TTIP. As far as sustainability is concerned, this is a key issue because Hungary does not want to join unsustainable systems that bring about its development. One of the fundamental mistakes of the TTIP debates is that they always have one scenario, they always know what the outcome will be, although there are many ways to establish a free trade agreement, including between the EU and the US. The possible variations in the contract text will, of course, be reduced from round to round of negotiations, but the reality is that the formation of TTIP will not only continue until the negotiations are concluded, but a number of factors, such as precedents for the interpretation of contracts, will also have a radical impact on the nature of TTIP. It is therefore a very important question of what TTIP Hungary wants. I propose that the key concept of this thinking should be sustainability. Sustainability is part of our Fundamental Law, apart from GMO-free, orientates the thinking of Fidesz and government beyond that. So we think of a TTIP in which the society of the States Parties simply feels good, does not want out of it, a TTIP that does not chase its members into economic, agricultural or ecological crises, a TTIP that does not confront the relations of its participants with other countries of the world, but provides opportunities for harmonious cooperation with our third partners, major players, global players or, where appropriate, the developing world for example with African actors. Finally, we need to assess which economic operators in the countries we particularly need to have a partnership. One of the circles, I see, is the United States of America. It must be seen that these Member States are also important partners. The other round is Germany and, of course, the European capitals, but the third Central Europe, also in view of the Hungarian Visegrád Presidency. Dear Parliament, With TTIP, I think our goal remains the same: a strong Europe, a strong Central Europe, a strong Hungary, without religious wars. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-26-30	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, lead speaker of the MSZP faction. Come on up to the pulpit.
u2015-02-26-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Members of the European Parliament Ladies and Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous few comments, we have also heard an analysis of the situation in the global economy. I think that the information contained in them is extremely important for us and for today's debate, because those global economic processes have an extraordinary impact on the future of the European Union and, obviously, also on the future of Hungary. We have heard about China, the Chinese economy, Asia, South America, the United States, their economic activities and economic indicators. This is obviously important for the European Union and a very big challenge. This challenge is the attempt to propose a solution to a free trade agreement, the essence of which is to establish a convention that eliminates customs duties, import quotas and preferences and restrictions between trade products and services. Countries signatory to the Free Trade Agreement may form a free trade zone but do not have a specific Common External Customs Tariff, i.e. they may apply different duties and quotas with non-zone countries. I would like to draw attention to one aspect, namely the fact that, in the course of such economic integration processes, such agreements are usually concluded between countries and regions which complement each other. Thus, when they are particularly competitive with each other, they are competitive against each other, and it is unlikely that such an agreement will fully serve the needs, which can only mean the liberalisation of certain products and services. However, the negotiations are much more about the FTA than just removing customs and non-tariff barriers, as the Commission considers that, in addition to existing duties and non-tariff barriers, this agreement is also about the approximation of technical standards and licensing procedures with a huge additional cost and administrative burden, which concern negotiations, coordination and harmonisation. The European Commission takes a triple approach to the agreement. The first would mean access to the market for economic operators in the Member States of the European Union, reducing, as I said, the administrative burden and providing additional opportunities for all economic operators through the new, jointly agreed trade rules. [[11.10]] According to a study commissioned by the European Commission, a very serious trade expansion of more than 20 per cent could be expected, and the automotive industry, the chemical industry, the pharmaceutical industry and the cosmetics industry could benefit most from this agreement. Of course, there are also opponents of the agreement, including civil society organisations or even parties, not only in Hungary, but also in the European Union, which collects objections and negative points around three points. The first is the secrecy of negotiations. We have heard here, Commissioner Navracsics, that the current European Commission wants to change this, but what details of these negotiations are being made public and what details are not, we do not know much about it yet, and this may also be the cause of the uncertainty that arises with regard to the assessment of this draft agreement. But this uncertainty is also reinforced by the fact that the Hungarian government did not play with open cards in this case either, as we remember that six months ago, the impact studies ordered by the government, whether by Corvinus University or by the Századvég Foundation, were encrypted; it was Minister Navracsics who made this provision. It is true that we have now had access to some studies, since we have received the Századvég Foundation's study, but all the impact studies that have been carried out in this regard are still not public, so it is difficult to hold a debate or even a position if we are not fully in possession of the information. I would also like to draw the Honourable Parliament's attention to the fact that this uncertainty is reinforced by the way the representatives of the Government have expressed their views on this agreement. During my speech before the agenda, I have already mentioned that, at the beginning of the year, on 31 January 2014, Viktor Orbán proposed speeding up negotiations, strengthening its effectiveness, and claiming that only such an agreement could guarantee Hungary's current position on the world market. Then nearly a year later, on 29 December of last year, Antal Rogán, Fidesz Group leader, said that the United States is putting pressure on Hungary, almost forcing Hungary to accept and ratify this agreement; it is no accident, because last autumn an event occurred: the United States has banned government officials from its territory because of a suspicion of corruption, so it is likely that this is why the ruling party's position on the agreement changed. We will now hear the foreign politicians of Fidesz and the European Commissioner, who used to be a member of the Fidesz faction, who are now once again in favour, obviously with reservations, but support the conclusion of this agreement. I would like to draw the attention of the government here, as has been before, to the fact that it cannot be done in such matters, in foreign policy matters only and solely for your internal political purposes, it cannot be what you wish to say to your constituents, to shape their positions and positions on matters of this magnitude, I think that this is completely unacceptable. Not only do they create confusion in Parliament, but Hungarian voters cannot decide whether, for example, this draft agreement is useful for Hungary or not. As I have said, the other problem raised by civil society organisations is the anti-democratic elements of this agreement, and we have already mentioned the so-called dispute resolution mechanism, where companies could defend their position before an arbitration tribunal, as has already been the case with one of the US companies. This is a point that the European Commission is also dealing with, but there is also an interesting fact that we consider this to be anti-democratic and a deterioration of Hungarian sovereignty, I think that perhaps all of us, for example, in the Paks agreement, have an arbitration clause, and probably in the implementation agreement that you have concluded for the purpose of carrying out the investment, there is also an arbitration clause. This is, therefore, a double attitude - now not unusual - for you to raise the problem here, while at the same time in the Paks agreement, in the agreement on Russia, it does not bother you that such a procedure is included in the international treaty. The third issue is the unilateral interest of companies, the creation of so-called regulatory coherence to remove barriers to trade. Different organisations fear that, if different regulations are harmonised, the less stringent of the stricter and less stringent rules will be applied. This is where the food safety issues arise, the gene-free trade in products, so this is also an important point that needs to be addressed on this day of debate. As I said, it is difficult to establish a clear position in these circumstances. As we have heard, there is a consultation on this issue, but we have heard of a limited consultation. The Socialist Party's position is that it is not possible to narrow down this consultation to economic operators, but it is also necessary to consult civil society organisations and Hungarian people; although we know that it is a complicated convention, as we have heard, many people are asking back what this really means, nevertheless consultation is important. The MSZP is therefore starting a consultation with trade unions, since it is also in the interest of employees, people living on wages and salaries, to know as much as possible what they can expect when this challenge comes to Hungary. I would like to say a few words about what this agreement could mean for Hungary, what is particularly important for Hungarian economic operators, and I would like to say a few thoughts primarily about small and medium-sized enterprises. Here we can talk about a duality in Hungary, because part of the economy has been integrated into the network of global production chains with the help of some large transnational companies and some of the small and medium-sized enterprises, but a larger part is not, so small and medium-sized enterprises that are not part of these networks are severely disadvantaged from the point of view of competitiveness. With regard to agriculture, I would like to highlight two threats. Competitiveness is also an important aspect here. Agricultural exports to the United States can increase by 15%, according to an ambitious opinion. Here, in this case, Hungarian producers are placed in a competitive environment where - you must see this - farmers in the United States have a very serious competitive advantage, so those huge economies, with very high levels of technology and technical equipment, will be very serious competitors of agricultural enterprises in the Member States of the European Union, but also of Hungarian producers. I can say that the Hungarian government, Hungary, has a very serious task here, if you want competitive agricultural production in the event of such an agreement, and, as I have already mentioned, the gene-free Food, seed is also an important challenge. And as I said in my speech before the agenda, Hungary is also challenged by what the Hungarian government is doing to the Hungarian economy, whether we can talk about free trade in Hungary at all, and I highlighted it in my speech before the agenda, but I would also like to highlight the few sectors and some government measures that confirm this issue. So, as we have heard here, in his introduction, the Minister spoke of a fair and clean, open competitive environment in the context of the agreement, but let us see if there is a fair and open commercial and economic sector in Hungary. In the commercial sector, I can talk about VAT fraud, traffic jams, tobacco dogs, gambling doggies, closing hours on Sunday, which favours the CBA business network, and for the benefit of some operators, restrictions on competition with state aid. [[11.20]] I can talk about the construction industry, where a small company, the Public Machine, has been in hegemony in Hungary so far, about the huge orders of Lőrinc Mészáros, the controlled use of EU funds. I could also talk about the media market as a service market, where the Simicska empire was stuffed with billions, its taxpayers make government propaganda out of billions, design managed advertising purchases, and almost an Internet tax was introduced. But I could also talk about the energy sector, where I can mention hundreds of billions of nationalizations, secret pacts, hidden Paks investment, István Garancsi's HES gas offshore mush [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Viktor Orbán's son-in-law's orders in the light-up process. But I could talk about agriculture, agriculture, dirt, the political distribution of land leases, and the EU's strong support for Lőrinc Mészáros and others. I could talk about the banking sector, the savings dog. [[András Tállai intervenes.]] The Magyar Nemzeti Bank's real estate investments, and I could tell you a long, long time. So what I am asking is whether Hungary is in such a state as to see whether there is a fair free trade situation in Hungary, whether there is a fair economic operation. In my view, this is the most important question: what does the Hungarian Government do to prepare Hungary against such a challenge, and you believe that there is a free economy in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-02-26-32	Thank you very much. We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-26-33	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Transatlantic relations are, from an economic point of view, one of the world's most important relationships, which account for 46.7 percent of world GDP at global level. The annual value of trade in goods and services between the parties is close to USD 1000 billion, representing more than 30 percent of world trade. Several relevant European research institutes have analysed the impact of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, and so far all of them have projected growth, despite the fact that it is significant. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not true!]] impact analysis has not yet been carried out, since we do not currently know the specific content of the agreement. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why not?]] This will be known at the earliest in the second half of 2015. [[Dr. András Schiffer: It's a big problem!]] The outcome of the proposed transatlantic trade and investment partnership would not only bring about significant changes in the breakdown of customs duties, but also in the standardisation of standards. From a Hungarian point of view, the most significant break-out benefits would be in the road vehicle manufacturing, pharmaceuticals and IT sector. However, it should be noted that by signing the Convention, we should expect more competition in almost all areas, particularly in agriculture and the chemical industry. In our view, EU rules in the field of GMOs, the environment, food safety and animal and plant health cannot be softened, and this cannot be discussed by the European Commission. The GMO exemption granted by Hungary under the Fundamental Law should not be subject to any deal, i.e. hormonal-treated and cloned chickens and their similar-haired associates should not come. In addition to the above, there are significant debates on investment protection. At present, it is not yet clear in what form the dispute resolution between the investor and the State should be incorporated into the agreement. In other words, the question remains open whether it is a Trojan horse, which could, for example, cause multinational companies to sue our country for less profit because of the Hungarian government's market and consumer measures. This would be unacceptable for us, in particular by the fact that Hungary should submit to the decision of the US arbitration, against which there is no appeal. Ladies and Gentlemen, There have been many criticisms of the EU that the negotiations are not transparent enough. In response, the Council of Europe has published at least its negotiating mandate and the Commission has shared most of the negotiating documents on the Internet and regularly reports to the Member States and to the European Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let's see how the negotiations are going. Following the long preparatory process, the European Union and the United States started negotiations in July 2013 to establish a Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. The Convention aims at a comprehensive free trade agreement aimed at improving market access for goods, services and public procurement, reducing regulatory barriers to trade and investment, as well as legislative cooperation between the parties and strengthening coherence between legislation. On 11 February 2014, the exchange of initial tariff offers took place, in which the level of ambition of the US offer was significantly lower than that of the European Union. On the basis of the above, Hungary has insisted that specific market opening negotiations can only continue if the United States is ready to make a tariff offer with a similar content to the EU. During the negotiations, we have made sure that the EU does not foresee a full tariff breakdown for our most important agricultural sensitivities, and in the case of industrial sensitivities, we have effectively requested that the customs dismantling schedule give the domestic industry the right time to adapt. The slowing down of the tariff break-down may give a longer adjustment period for nearly half a billion euros of production related to Hungarian exports to the EU to break down an average of 8 per cent of customs duties. In the service trading area, the initial offers were exchanged in early summer 2014. During the EU's internal negotiations, the Hungarian Government has managed to keep the EU offer within the framework of Hungarian legislation - to adapt to our international obligations and to leave us a significant policy room. In the service trading area, the US negotiator has challenged the level of ambition of the EU offer. The exchange of public procurement offers has not yet taken place, as the US defensive approach has hampered the development of key parameters that determine the level of ambition of tenders. The main difficulty for the US is to cover sub-federal levels, some federal states and municipalities with substantive obligations. The substantive negotiation process was halted by summer 2014. Due to the lack of answers to politically sensitive questions, the focus of further discussions was not on substantive, but on technical work, namely the examination of standardisation and compliance certification systems and the various industry regulations. However, negotiations have also been very slow in these areas. [[11.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, As a fact, we have had to conclude that since 2014, there has been a steady increase in the voices that have revealed serious doubts about the negotiations, the main cause of which is the lack of legitimate transparency. The US has made it clear in recent weeks that the conclusion of negotiations on the Pacific Free Trade Agreement, which is much more advanced than the European Trade Convention, and the acquisition of a congressional mandate for the adoption of the agreement, will be a priority until the presidential elections of the US Government at the end of 2016. Due to the above, the substantial progress of the European negotiations will be expected at the earliest in the second half of 2015. The Commission's current position is that if negotiations were to progress substantially during 2015, the agreement could be concluded by the end of 2015. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us now review the expected effects of this agreement. According to the Commission's impact study, the application of a comprehensive agreement would increase EU GDP by at least 0.27 percent per year and EU exports of goods and services to the US by at least 15 percent and trade with third countries could increase significantly. The impact analysis shows that most of the benefits of the Convention could result from reducing regulatory barriers. As a result of the agreement, it is expected that significant additional business costs and unjustified administrative burdens resulting from different regulations can be substantially reduced. The Hungarian Government pays particular attention to the fact that the agreement to be concluded should take account of domestic socio-economic sensitivities and be in line with the government's dual public policy objective of economic growth and job creation. The negotiating mandate given to the European Commission also clearly states, in line with the needs of the Hungarian Government, that EU and international legislation protecting human life and health, animal health, animal welfare and environmental, food safety and consumer interests cannot be the subject of a deal; the free trade agreement should not lead to their relaxation. Hungary is interested in creating an agreement with Hungarian companies at least as much as their European and American competitors. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers the draft agreement on the EU-US Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership to be a concern in many respects, but does not reject it from the outset. However, since the devil always lurks in detail, we will be able to comment on actual support or rejection only in the knowledge of all of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position within the 15-minute time frame available to them in total. First, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi. Here.
u2015-02-26-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the transatlantic trade treaty before us in general - as has been shown by the previous speakers - is largely covered by economic and trade-type arguments, but the Free Trade Agreement is clearly more than just a convention on trade and economic cooperation. In fact, business, big business leaders and representatives have been pushing for this free trade area since the 1990s. Since the Transatlantic Declaration signed in 1990, lobbying organisations have been set up in several stages to create a free trade area, but the importance of TTIP goes beyond the business, commercial and economic sphere. We are talking not only about economic and commercial cooperation, but also about a coordinated global power action, which is the last step in our country, Hungary, for our colonialization and our total vulnerability. In the eighties and nineties, when Hungary turned to the Euroatlantic direction with the change of regime, it was the first step in this colonialism and this vulnerability that had already been fulfilled with our membership of the European Union, and now it can be fully completed by signing the TTIP. We are used to the fact that when we have contracts of this type, those who have the interest of signing this trade agreement carry out completely one-sided propaganda. On 8 May 2014, the European Commission put a brochure on the table which unilaterally presents all the benefits of TTIP; we learn that its aim is to create economic growth, new jobs on both sides of the Atlantic; and, of course, it mentions three main elements for TTIP: better market access by reducing customs duties, easier access to service and public procurement markets and the reduction of unnecessary regulations, and, of course, the establishment of international rules and, if adopted, cooperation in this respect. The logic of this convention is very simple: by removing barriers, trade will increase and, of course, will automatically lead to GDP growth, unemployment eradication and prosperity in the United States of America and the European Union. TTIP believes that it will bring out the countries involved, the communities involved in it, from the low point that has reached these communities with the financial crisis in 2008, and, of course, they will be able to act together much better and much more effectively against common rivals such as China. And, of course, even arguments such as the integration of weapons production, the euphemistically strengthening and integration of the defence industry are also emerging. However, the arguments against this Free Trade Agreement are also numerous and culminate specifically in the Investment Protection Convention, which allows multinational companies to initiate legal proceedings against a State if they believe that their profit interests are being damaged. The lawsuit could, of course, be conducted in arbitrations, profit-oriented private courts. Let me give you one or two examples of what this means in practice. For example, a GMO company can sue Hungary on the basis of this contract for a GMO exemption incorporated in the Constitution in Hungary. With regard to Verespatak, the mining company may claim compensation from Romania because cyanide technology cannot be used in gold mining in Romania. And, of course, there are a number of events in the past that should make us more cautious about the Free Trade Agreement. Philip Morris, for example, sued Australia under a free trade agreement because it rejected Philip Morris' ability to generate profits on grounds of health protection legislation. The French Veolia acted against the increase in the Egyptian minimum wage, also referring to such a free trade contract. [[11.40]] The spread of GMOs, which is also included in the Hungarian Constitution, is, of course, threatened by the trade agreement, as it increases health risks due to the US's food imports, since technologies that are not currently allowed in the European Union are also allowed in the United States of America. For example, hormone treatment in animal husbandry, genetic modification in crop production and the production of certain chemicals. Of course, we are also concerned that the United States of America is the only country that has not ratified major environmental agreements such as the Kyoto Convention to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Stockholm Convention to limit harmful chemicals or the Basel Convention to prevent the export of waste. Of course, as has already been highlighted by the speakers before me, transparency, the process of opaque, secret negotiations make this treaty and the signing of this treaty extremely dangerous. Of course, the lessons of the North American Free Trade Convention, NAFTA, should also warn us of caution, where the same arguments have been used to conclude this agreement between Mexico, the USA and Canada, and there has been a loss of one million jobs in recent years. Only one and one last argument against this treaty is the weakening of the sovereignty of the EU Member States and the European Union itself, as the Ukrainian crisis has already shown that Europe does not have its own foreign policy, it is in the interests of the US. The EU is not able to develop a policy in its own neighbourhood that is appropriate to its own interests. The influence of the US on this trade contract will only continue to increase. TTIP does not serve the Member States and the European Union's Community objectives and should therefore be removed from the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-36	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the other lead speaker of Jobbik, Mr Zoltán Balczó, MEP. Here.
u2015-02-26-37	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Let us ask a very simple question: yet, whose interest is it to conclude this free trade agreement? Well, one of the negotiating rounds was the following, from the report. The United States is seeking to conclude a series of negotiations before the presidential elections, and it intends to see the Transatlantic and Free Trade Agreement as President Obama's oeuvre. Let's think about why he's doing his life's work. Because you want to serve the European population so badly? No! You obviously know how much this is in the interest of the United States. Dr. Magdolna Csath analyzed this in his writing in the Hungarian Nation, and the following subtitle was published:. If we allow free wolves to enter the cage of free hens, then there is no doubt who will win the race. It's that simple. I would like to discuss in more detail the issue of food safety, including whether the GMO-free nature of Hungarian agriculture is guaranteed. I have in my hands a study that Friends of the Earth Europe, the Friends of the European Earth, has made available to European representatives by an international environmental organisation. Otherwise, it has a member organisation in 30 European countries, the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors in Hungary. This study demonstrates with reference that the biggest pressure on the US negotiating delegation is exercised by the companies involved in the GMO business, biotech companies. They cannot accept the current European standards that restrict them in this market. And that is what we can say, it has been said, that in our constitution there is a GMO-free agriculture, and anyway, the Union has now adopted legislation that provides Member States with the possibility to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs. The problem is, however, that this legislation does not actually provide what everyone thinks, that if Hungary does not want to grow GMOs, it will not. No, because the Union has granted and granted authorisation throughout Europe, and to get us out of this, we need to prove at the end of a long procedure with different reasons that we rightly want the exemption. The European Food Safety Agency also wanted to launch a procedure against Hungary in 2009, when only one endowment was possible. So let us be clear: this directive, this legislation, where appropriate, forces Hungary to tolerate the cultivation of GMOs in its own production area, and the constitution is inferior to European law, so we have no such security. By the way, in the committee responsible for the European Parliament, of which I am a member, there was a hearing and experts on the question of cloning, and there they came to understand why we are talking about this. Consumers do not want it, farmers do not want it, it causes the animals to suffer, and the answer was why we do not decide on a permanent ban. Because the Commission does not propose legislation for this because it threatens TTIP and the US would not like it. If this seems to be an individual opinion, I quote from our committee's draft opinion on TTIP. It is misleading that the Commission, the European Commission, is trying to calm down public concerns about TTIP by stating that existing standards are not being reduced. It is extremely concerned that the Regulatory Cooperation Council, which would be established, will lead to a reduction in future EU standards in key areas of human health, food safety and environmental protection in the light of significant differences between the EU and the United States. Well, it's a perfectly clear danger. In the end, it turned out here, if not directly, indirectly, that the government, which is an important negotiator in this case, supports it. He considered the closure to be a wrong answer, said the Minister, Mr Mikola Secretary of State, at the meeting of the commission, that the Hungarian approach during the negotiations was and is still the fact that Hungary clearly supports the free trade negotiations in the EU from the outset. By the way, the other important player, it is a good day for debate, but the European Union, Fidesz, as a member of the People's Party, has made the following resolution, József Szájer noted with another partner that the rapid progress in the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is key to securing new growth opportunities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What they are talking about, and they say that there is no need to worry, because Parliament will have to ratify it anyway, and I will tell you that at the COSAC meeting of the European Union's committees on EU affairs, 20 Parliaments of the Member States have initiated the EU Commission to have a mixed agreement that you are talking about, which means that the Union cannot conclude on its own, but must be ratified. After four months, the Commission replied that only after the conclusion of the negotiations, in the light of the final provisions, can it be judged whether it will be like this in Hungarian: then let us accept that it is still disputed whether the Hungarian Parliament has veto rights in this situation. I think you could pick up a few questions here from the past period. TTIP is a threat to national sovereignty, and we have not actually managed to protect land's property because of EU dogmatic legislation, but this may be brought before the European Court of Justice at present. The GMO-free Hungarian agriculture cannot be guaranteed. On Friday, there was a debate day on illegal immigrants, where it was said that what really needs to be done here is clear, but according to EU legislation, it cannot be done, but Viktor Orbán will do so with sufficient support; so I must say that the government should be aware that it is fundamentally impossible to enforce our national strategic interests, and that the government must oppose it, not just in words, but in decisions and legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-38	Thank you very much. Mr. András Schiffer, lead speaker of the LMP. Get out of here. [[11.50]]
u2015-02-26-39	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Last October, Hungary's freedom fighter Prime Minister said that the expansion of free trade on the globe was proven to be for the benefit of humanity. In contrast, we believe that the expansion of free trade on the globe has proven to be an increase in exploitation and causes the planet to die. Dear Parliament, The question is whether everything becomes a commodity, whether we allow the colonization of our life, whether we allow the destruction of food sovereignty, whether we allow the self-determination of communities or nations to be destroyed, is at stake. We say that some things aren't for sale. We believe in a world where local communities are strong, where traditions can be handed over, where there is a survival capacity for the homeland, where man is better than profit, where exploitation can be eliminated, and the planet can be preserved for our offspring, simply because money cannot be eaten. Dear Parliament, What is in front of us and in front of the European Union's bodies is nothing more than the conflict between global corporations and the national alliance of individual nations. This is a treaty that replaces governments with giant companies, protects investors' equity in global capital, not only in the area of food security, but also in the area of climate policy, financial regulation, cuts down workers' rights, cuts down health care institutions. It's a slow-motion coup. And it is not only that Hungary's GMO-free nature is at risk, but it is also about what my previous colleague has said, which threatens the survival of the Carpathian Basin and its basic environmental security, because from now on golden mining companies will be given a green signal as to when, with what form of cyanide, the water catchment area of the Tisza will be flooded, for example. Such a free trade agreement, a series of which, at the same time, continues to burden the global ecological system and increases the chances of creating a new financial balloon. Such a contract is good for large companies, not good for small businesses, and not good for the people. Such a treaty is good for the core countries of the European Union, Germany, good for the United States, but the countries of Eastern Central Europe will lose, South Europe will lose. Rich people get richer, poor people get poorer. Profit interests should not prevent the public interest. Free trade systems across the entire planet do not strengthen the competitiveness of the European Union; on the contrary, they amplify the comparative disadvantages of the European Union. Dear Parliament, This pact is a bad response to the financial crisis in 2008. The major powers, the various large institutions, do not deal with corporate tax avoidance practices, transfer pricing, offshoreisation, financial balloon development. The usual business goes on, the price of increasing profits is paid by people and the next generations. On the basis of a UN study - as opposed to the eulogy we heard at the beginning of this meeting - 600 000 jobs in Europe will be lost, wages in Europe will be reduced by thousands of euros per year. And one more thing: TTIP threatens to replace intra-EU trade with transatlantic trade, which could lead to the economic fragmentation of the European Union. There were precedents, such as the MEA some 15 years ago, which various globalisation-critical movements prevented multinationals around the world from suing democratically, the governments elected by the people to take measures that threaten their profit objectives. There was an initiative within the WTO for service liberalisation, from 2000 to the Battle of Seattle, the globalisation critical movements prevented it, because the flag was set, yes, the world could be different. The first such large free trade pact, which was mentioned before me, was NAFTA, and let us see what this weakest party has brought Mexico. The unemployment rate is now higher than in 1994; the poverty rate is the same as in 1994; the proportion of people living below the minimum is 52 percent in Mexico today, as in 1994. This free trade pact has created a crime, poverty-filled wreckage society in Mexico. It is no coincidence that Latin America then bravely opposed imperialist efforts. Dear Parliament, Of course, the government is right, it is not a traditional one, but, if you like, a unorthodox free trade agreement, because it is not about cutting customs duties, it is about breaking down non-tariff barriers, in Hungarian everything that serves the interests of people, of nature. And it is worth stopping for a moment because CETA, the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, has already been adopted by the European Union, which is awaiting ratification. Before anyone wants to dazzle the Hungarian people with the ability to defend the country's GMO-free nature, it is worth seeing that this convention for ratification contains the fact that there is no precautionary principle, but that the so-called scientific evidence provided by industry allows the cultivation of these plants. If you really want to protect Hungary's GMO-free nature, the government must state here that Hungary will never ratify this convention. If we enter into this convention, we can get away with TTIP, then we can get away with the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Russia. So far, Hungary has consulted 37 players, only economic operators, the former EU Commissioner has discussed 8 times with civil society organisations and 119 times with large companies. For 30 years, the US and the European Union are encrypting everything that is, by the way, related to this series of negotiations. In addition to the United States of America's negotiating delegation on civil society organisations' rights and transparency, 600 official corporate lobbyists are underway in Brussels today; this is the case. A downward competition has been launched, one of the instruments for profit growth, a downward regulatory spiral on how environmental, health, financial regulation, food safety, chemical regulation or labour law can be broken down. Everywhere they take a looser set of rules in the event of such a series of negotiations. This is what regulatory coherence means, the downward spiral in the areas of environmental, health or labour law rules. I think that what is going to happen in other free trade systems, in the United States, is forcing other countries to relax workers' rights on the rules for protecting the environment. Today, 40 percent of the US's food is stranded outside the European Union's food market because it does not comply with European health standards. Let's keep that in mind. The precautionary principle was applied in this contractual system, since the scientific evidence provided by industry is incorruptible. We've been told about the special private courts. They are offshore courts, secret private courts, unaccountable private courts, which can impose unlimited tax compensation on freely elected governments and parliaments when government action on the basis of a mandate given by people endangers the expected profits of global companies. I would also say legal cases, and I would also like to respond to the fact that the EU and the US's large multi-enterprises questioned Egypt because they sued for serious amounts because of the increase in the minimum wage. The Ely Lilly pharmaceutical company sued Canada for wanting to lower the drug prices. We can also talk about the fact that Exxon has sued Mobil Canada - unfortunately - because it required the use of local products for products used in oil extraction. This is also evidence that these pressing free trade agreements are destroying the potential of local economies. Such a convention is the possibility of political intervention, so that all of you here, even in a two-thirds majority today, take decisions in the field of energy, water, health, and virtually zero in accordance with the electoral mandate. After TTIP, elected local representatives will have the opportunity to agree on implementation with the representatives of the multinationals. Local self-determination is over, so the question is, do we need any more politicians at all? Dear Parliament, Multis thus have access to a legal system that simple people do not. The concentration of capital endangers equality of law, the rule of law, which are traditional liberal claims, if you will, justify Marx's claim that the mechanism of capitalist production always removes the obstacles that he has temporarily created. [[12.00]] TTIP sets up the Cooperation Council where future rules on environmental protection and food safety need to be discussed with the United States before they are brought before the legitimate European Union decision-making forums. This means that the United States which is not party to the Kyoto Convention, the Stockholm Convention, the Basel Convention, is strangely becoming the 29th Member State of the European Union. Dear Parliament, Many have already said and will also say about Hungary's GMO-free nature, that, by the way, maintaining marking obligations means that we will not know what we are putting on our children's table. There was talk about the dangers of pesticides, hormone-treated beef, chlorinated chicken, what kind of attack is currently taking place against food safety. However, it should also be said that this Convention is basically starting climate protection efforts, preventing, for example, in the area of copyright legislation, access to cheaper generic products by poorer countries, pharmaceutical companies putting enormous pressure on the health system in poor countries. Relaxing financial regulation is threatening another global financial crisis. Dear Parliament, It is also worth looking at the fact that imports of polluting plant protection products virtually nullify the organic food sector. In 2012 within the European Union, this sector produced EUR 23 billion. EU-US exports, on the other hand, amounted to EUR 15 billion and are therefore not economically worth it. It is simply that the claims that this story may have a noticeable increase in GDP are not true. In the case of Slovenia, 3 thousand are forecasted for 2027 and in Hungary a 0.3-0.5 percent increase in GDP, which will mainly fall at the multinationals, and the profits generated there will go out to offshore paradises with transfer prices. Moreover, the century-end study commissioned for the government says that the radical liberalisation of trade in export products that are important to us creates a serious competitive situation where unequal parties are struggling. That's the point. 600-700 000 jobs in Europe are at risk and workers' rights to participate are at risk as the United States has ratified two out of eight international labour agreements. What is happening to the SME sector is again a good example of Mexico. In the long term, the Mexican small and medium-sized enterprise sector has been hit by such a free trade agreement. The factor that needs to be looked at is the impact of the secondary restrictive effect of US or Canadian dumping on Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian SME sector. It is important to look at the impact such a free trade agreement will have on an already tragically divided national economy. Dear Parliament, We see that the Hungarian government follows the neoliberal position, which is included not only by Viktor Orbán, but also by Péter Szijjártó's prediction that an EU free trade agreement with the United States can be particularly beneficial. Why? On what grounds? What we do see, however, is that in an irresponsible way for the government, TTIP is a card in a poker game. The Hungarian government has wasted its positions of interest over the past four years because of its power efforts. In this case, the Hungarian government should stand on its heels and represent a national interest. The ban scandal is linked to the free trade negotiation series in so far as a government involved in corruption news becomes blackmailable and loses its foreign policy capacity. Hungary needs a change of foreign policy to defend itself; Hungary's number one allies are the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and South Europe with similar fates. I would like to say to you that, while Hungarian economic policy puts the country's ability to attract capital instead of strengthening its ability to raise domestic capital, Hungary will not have a chance to defend national interests. Let us be clear that one addiction does not trigger another. TTIP addiction from one direction, energy dependence, Paks II addiction from the east. The two addictions are exponentially increasing each other and endangering Hungary's sovereignty and national self-determination. With this shameful series of negotiations, Hungary has one thing to do: it clearly stands by Greece, and, like the Greek Government, states that today, the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: In the century, a government that is responsible for its own nation, its constituents, responsible for the next generation and the future of the planet will never ratify such free trade pacts. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-26-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to come forward is the first to be heard. I would like to inform you that the first two independent Members made themselves known agreed to use the timeframe in the debate in 4-4 minutes. So I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Here you go.
u2015-02-26-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, There is rarely such a major international institutional development programme on the table of the Hungarian Parliament as the TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. If nothing else, I agree with the LMP that it initiated this debate day, because this is very important. In recent years, much conflicting and misleading information has appeared in the Hungarian press, mainly from the mouth of Hungarian politicians. It has been said here several times that Viktor Orbán supported the TTIP partnership a year ago, but in December he was already in danger of Hungarian sovereignty. Péter Szijjártó, the determined hero of trade development, recently spoke about the fact that such a contract cannot be forced into Hungary; today he was worried about the encryptions of the European Union, which is quite entertaining from the mouth of a Hungarian government official. The government seems to have several opinions and disagrees with each other. The LMP and Jobbik are terrified of taking over the multinationals, there is no shortage of conspiracy theories. The partnership can, in my view, be the most important agreement since the establishment of an international economic institution after World War II, which at that time allowed for the reconstruction of Europe after the war. It is a fundamentally important and forward-looking partnership agreement, which allows the United States, but it is much more important for us, so that Europe can step out of the economy of recent years. The partnership can set Europe on a new global economic path that would increase prosperity at a pan-European level. At the same time, there is another very important aspect of this convention, which has perhaps not yet been discussed here today. In particular, the question of how the EU and the United States will develop their trade relations in the long term. The partnership is not only a trade policy and economic issue, but it is also a question of which region of the world we have closer links with. If you like, it's a question of civilization. With its established democratic achievements, it is in Europe's interest to approach a region with a similar democratic culture with a new step towards integration. Although the Hungarian government is making incomprehensible efforts to develop trade in the Far East, the reality is that we will never be able to engage in mass trading with hundreds of millions of Asian countries. We have a real development opportunity in the West, and so does Europe. If Europe cannot even agree with the United States, how could it be with other regions? In addition, the partnership can provide a basis for a new generation of international cooperation. This represents a step forward towards a culture of peace and economic cooperation, the European paradigm on which European peace has been built for 60 years. This European culture, this is what we need, this is the only way to ensure the safety and development of Europe and Hungary in it on a permanent basis. It follows from this that I believe that a good TTIP will also benefit the Union and Hungary. The growing, expanding market gives momentum to growth, increases employment, allows new technologies to enter, which obviously has a significant positive impact on the Hungarian economy. Of course, only if the Hungarian government could do that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] To create clear, legal and predictable relations for the economic environment burdened with corruption, loopholes, buddy monopolies, offshore businesses. [[12.10]] The growing state capitalism of the Hungarian government creates further serious barriers to: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungary can participate in this partnership at all. I am convinced that free trade can lead to an expanding export market, economic growth, more work and cheaper prices. The Hungarian government, Hungary, can make a forward-looking decision and decide that the common European future is not interesting, but will lock itself in a cage of local and partial interests. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2015-02-26-42	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. András Tállai asked for the floor. Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-26-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to comment and continue the debate in a calmer, calmer style and attitude. The TTIP initiatives were not based on ideological considerations, but on the fact that there is a very serious overlap between the parties' economic objectives, such as growth and employment generation, reindustrialisation and improving competitiveness vis-à-vis emerging countries, which can therefore be useful for the establishment of the agreement. It's in the common interest. Hungary has clearly supported the free trade negotiations between the European Union and the United States from the outset, which can bring significant benefits to the open and foreign economy-oriented Hungarian economy. Our country has nothing to fear from fair competition in the market. A major part of our external trade with the EU Member States is complicated by a level playing field in the EU's single internal market. In the last four years, the trade in goods with the European Union's countries has shown a Hungarian surplus of EUR 9-10 billion, which shows that the players of the Hungarian economy can also be competitive in developed, demanding markets. It is therefore important for Hungary to improve market access conditions for sectors that are strongly integrated into European production networks, such as automotive and news technology, and to reduce barriers other than customs on goods, services and public procurement in the US markets, as well as costly and bureaucratic procedures. The Hungarian Government's fundamental expectation of the agreement is to ensure a fair balance of benefits and obligations between the parties. I would stress that the implementation of this principle is an important aspect for us not only at EU level, but also for all EU Member States and all European industry. At this stage of the negotiations, various impact assessments may be based on assumptions, and the actual impact will also depend on the use of improved conditions by economic operators. However, it can be said that the Commission and Member States impact assessments that have been carried out so far expect a consistent positive impact from transatlantic free trade. According to the Commission's impact study, the application of a comprehensive agreement would increase EU GDP by 0.27 percent per year and 0.48 per year in a more ambitious scenario. The findings of the impact assessment prepared by the Hungarian Government last year, which predict a significant increase in trade between Hungary and the United States, as already said in Parliament, could be 15-20 percent, possibly up to 0.2-0.3 percent of GDP per year, although it could mean the creation of 20-30 thousand new jobs. It is important to note that the effects can only be achieved by the end of the application of the obligations to be incorporated into the agreement, as soon as possible by the mid-2020s. Market expansion and the expansion of fair competition are of course useful for all economic operators, but it is a common misconception that TTIP will only benefit large multinational companies. The reality is, however, that the SME sector, which provides the most new jobs for the Hungarian and European economies, can gain much more with the future free trade agreement. Due to their limited capacity, trade restrictions so far are a proportionate burden to them. In particular, it could be a noticeable relief for SMEs to remove non-tariff barriers, as they were less able to cover the administrative burden resulting from different production and regulatory requirements that hinder the simultaneous presence on different markets. For us, the benefits of the agreement are expected to be best in the field of road vehicle manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, infocommunications products and services. The relevant sectoral negative effects of TTIP were not indicated in the studies. The Hungarian economy is open and strongly embedded in European value chains in some production and service sectors. For this reason, in taking account of the benefits, we cannot limit ourselves to examining the development of foreign trade between Hungary and the United States, but we must also consider the positive and indirect effects of the European Union on our turnover. In the light of these considerations, it is necessary to deliver an opinion on the draft agreement in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-26-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's a two-minute turn, but first I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State, István Mikola, on behalf of the government. Here.
u2015-02-26-45	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to stress that there is no free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union. So the statements made are that if there is a decision, then this will be the one, these are not real. No trade agreement, negotiations are ongoing. The negotiations will take place between the European Commission holding the mandate and the representative of the United States. And our job is to be at the negotiating table and fight, because otherwise we cannot represent Hungarian national interests. So the government simply doesn't have a chance to stand up from the table. When I heard the quote from Mr. András Schiffer in Marx, I thought of a quote from Bibo, which could mean thinking for a week. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] Yeah, it's very interesting. It is said that over-strength and the co-existence of false realism in practice will protect us from exaggeration. We need very sober thoughts. I have noted, I see that various statements have been made: Messianicism, anti-Messianism, sect, religious war, Trojan horse, slow-motion coup, pact. These aren't right for this series of negotiations. The series of negotiations is taking place in our view so that we can enforce the specific national interests that are very important to us. In a comment made, more people referred to it as if we were at the mercy of the events. We're not at risk! When it comes to breaking down the tariff lines, it has not been said, but I would like to say now that we are not breaking down all the tariff lines, leaving protection duties in place, because we want to protect our food exports, we want to protect our animal health, animal welfare and other achievements. Today, I see that we are capable of protecting them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-26-46	Thank you very much. I can see you've applied for two minutes, Mr. Sallai R. Benedek, but please be patient, because another member of the government has applied for a statement. Secretary of State Szabolcs Takács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2015-02-26-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, On behalf of the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office for European Union Affairs, I would like to add a few things to this debate. On the one hand, I would like to talk about the role of the State Secretary in the negotiation process. Based on the government's decision last autumn, the coordination responsible for European Union affairs has been transferred to the Prime Minister's Office and we were also commissioned to exercise full professional control over the work of our permanent representation in favour of the European Union. [[12.20]] We believe that the identification of Hungarian interests, the establishment of positions and the consistent and coordinated representation of the general government aspects can be most effectively achieved by the Prime Minister's Office. EU free trade negotiations, including TTIP, are such an important issue that we pay particular attention to. On behalf of Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, it has been said that negotiations, consultation with social and economic organisations are carried out by the JRC, and the Prime Minister's Office clearly fully supports it. I would also like to talk about the fact that TTIP is, for the European Union, the most important trade negotiation of recent times. This is reflected in the fact that the establishment of a sensible and balanced convention is one of the ten most important priorities of the new Commission. We have also heard this from Commissioner Tibor Navracsics. The European Commission aims at improving the competitiveness of the Union, strengthening economic growth and promoting employment growth without undermining European standards for the preservation of food safety, health, environmental and data protection and cultural diversity. I think that these goals and considerations coincide with those of the Hungarian government. The negotiations are still in the initial power assessment phase; this is important to state. On difficult issues, the real bargaining process can start as soon as the second half of the year. However, because of the lack of full transparency that we have already challenged, many think that negotiations should be stopped, because for some reason they are sure that the US will simply force its position on Europe, rewrite European rules, including the rules of the Hungarian economy, that Europe and Hungary can only lose this free trade agreement. That may be true, but it may not be so. We don't know that. This will be revealed by the end of the negotiation process. I would also like to say that if we are to see objectively, we also need to know that we are talking about two partners of equal weight. The total GDP and world trade share of the European Union are well above that of the United States. The bilateral trade in goods and services represents a European surplus of more than EUR 100 billion per year. Even in the field of agricultural and food products, Europe can realise an active substance vis-à-vis the United States. The competitiveness of Hungary, as we have heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, is well demonstrated by the competitiveness of Hungarian products that a significant and lasting surplus of foreign trade can be realised in Hungarian trade with developed partners. That's worth considering, too. At the same time, I would like to emphasise in the context of the transparency of the negotiations that, of course, we also believe that the process cannot be a black box. The Hungarian Government, together with the other Member States, has been constantly urging the European Commission to share all negotiating documents with the governments and to make available to the public comprehensible materials from which the objectives, situation and expected effects of the negotiations can be learned. When we are talking about the public, we obviously need to consider not only the market players, but - I agree with the comments - all social actors must be involved, because if, in addition to the governments in question, the players in economic and market life and the majority of social actors legitimise this negotiation process and the possible agreement itself, this will obviously be a stronger legitimacy. This coincides with the government's intentions. We must also recognise that some efforts have been made by the Commission to satisfy the need for information, and the European Council, one of the most important bodies of national interest, has also made a significant contribution to this when it made available last autumn in all EU languages the negotiating directives drawn up and adopted by the Member States, which set out the objectives and scope of the EU negotiations. I recommend these documents to your attention as well. If they are studied, it will hopefully help to address their otherwise legitimate concerns and fears. We believe that there are further ways to increase transparency. Such is the consideration and ambition of the Member States to bring the European Commission back to the agenda of the European Council at times a given moment in the negotiation process, so that, indeed, in ratification, we will not be in a position to ratify a finished product to the parliaments of the Member States, but to give Heads of State and Government the opportunity to comment on a given status of the negotiation process every two to three months and to direct the Commission to take further steps. It has also been said that this is a personal ambition of the President of the United States to conclude this negotiation process during the Presidency period. This may be the case, but this is not the direction the developments are pointing in, because for the moment, the priority for the US is the negotiations on trade in Asia, TPP, and only then would it be possible to enter into meaningful negotiations with the European Union. In any case, it is the content of the negotiation process and not the timing that is important to us. A convention with the right content, we believe, can indeed have a positive impact on the economy of the European Union, our region and Hungary. At the same time, achieving this implies consistent, hard enforcement of our national interests throughout the process. As the Commission is the negotiating party on behalf of the European Union, our national interest is basically mediated, so we need to ensure that the European position to be taken within the EU reflects Hungarian interests in addition to the interests of other Member States. I believe that the first obstacle has been well taken, that the mandate to negotiate the Commission's scope for negotiation is in many places a trace of our hands, and that it reflects our sensitivity, whether it be GMOs, quotas for agricultural products or this dispute settlement mechanism with a really confusing status and powers at present. So, at this stage of the negotiations, we need to put pressure on the European Commission, in cooperation with the Member States of similar interest, in order to ensure that our interests, considerations and sensibilities are not embezzled or abandoned. The Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office for European Union Affairs and the permanent representation in Brussels therefore give priority to this task. The outcome, if the negotiations lead to success, and you will be able to judge it, is that, in addition to the unanimous decision of the Council and the consent of the European Parliament, the conclusion of the TTIP will require the ratification of the Hungarian Parliament. This gives us the ultimate guarantee that there cannot be a treaty that is contrary to our interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-48	Thank you, too. We're about to make a two-minute comment. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, here you go.
u2015-02-26-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I would very much like to say this, because I am very inspired by the cult speech of Zsolt Németh in the war of religion, and I would like to respond to that, so I would like to postpone the professional calmness requested by Secretary Mikola a little later, because I see a very, very graphic picture of what our Prime Minister has seen as a psychic view of us opening the window to America, just putting up a mosquito net. But that means no one else on Jobbik can see that elephants want to come in this window, and this mosquito net isn't worth anything. So you can't see that people who want to invade the image of multinationals can ruin everything inside. As a result, this mosquito net example is not good. That's about what these negotiations are worth and what can be refined. That's why it's hard for us to believe that. In the same way, my teeth crunched during the speech when it paralleled sustainability and the Free Trade Agreement. This is a poetic picture in scale, as if to say that, yes, a world war is needed to bring peace to come. This is about how we need this free trade agreement, which, in my opinion, goes against everything Fidesz has represented over the past four years, namely national self-determination, small and medium-sized enterprises, the recovery of our economy, the development of internal markets. All this goes against the need to negotiate at all. Obviously, it is possible to examine whether it can come out well or badly, but it is like a broken leg, where you can watch only one shoe wears, but that doesn't make you understand it very well. I would like to thank Jobbik and my fellow Member Schiffer for responding to the GMO. I would just like to say to Mr Vejkey's concerns that the free trade agreement between the EU and Canada already states that the aim is to minimise the negative effects of the regulation on biotechnology products on trade. So it's pretty much possible to see where this is going with regard to GMOs, and we don't have a lot of hope. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-26-50	Thank you. Mr Zoltán Balczó, MEP, Jobbik. Here. [[12.30]]
u2015-02-26-51	No sound. ) Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to what Mr Szabolcs Takács said. Yes, I do agree that the Commission is the negotiating party, which also means that Member States' representation of interests is indirect and that the Commission should be under pressure. When, for the first time in this term, this issue came before the European Parliament, there was a very strong criticism from the Commission, especially because even members of the Trade Committee were not aware of what they were actually discussing and how they were negotiating. So I agree with you that the involvement of social organisations is needed in a broader context. We are at the moment saying that I, as a MEP, have been given the opportunity, under appropriate conditions, to look at the document on the negotiations in a secret room, but I cannot make it public or talk about it. So the question is how specific social organisations can be involved in this, but information that affects them, where appropriate, in their field of expertise, is not available. And one more thing. I ask that Parliament ratify this together, because, as I said, the last official opinion of the European Commission was that, after the negotiations have been concluded, it can decide whether this is really the mixed type that Parliaments are going to ratify. I'm glad you want to do this, but I'm afraid you shouldn't treat this as a fact. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-52	Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi is next, independent.
u2015-02-26-53	Thank you very much. I am very surprised that both LMP and Jobbik aim to cancel an agreement under negotiation when it is obviously not an initiative of any size. Obviously, our goal is to make the best of it. I have already said that I believe that this partnership has a civilisational significance, and when I talk about it, it also means that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council, We're in the century. The real challenge of this series of negotiations for Europe is not whether or not it will be, because if it is not, it will be a big problem for us, but whether or not the 21st will be able to do so. In the 20th century, to reconcile free trade with the system of expectations that protects human life, protects health, protects nature and the future, in which Europe has reached a high level, can resolve them with international negotiating partners. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] LMP also regularly talks about a knowledge-based society, which is based on innovation. When the Hungarian start-ups, the start-up entrepreneurs, who are marketable and, by the way, we consider them as fundamental representatives of Hungarian economic growth, as they come out of the garage and can buy plane tickets, they go to Silicon Valley to open an office there, then we must really consider these things. The real challenge is how we can participate in the global world, because it is an undeniable, existing reality that we cannot take into account, but it is no good for us to reconcile it with the serious European nature conservation and human life acquis that we are so proud of. This is the stakes, and that makes it a question of civilization. Thank you.
u2015-02-26-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-02-26-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, it seems that the position of the MSZP here has not been so well expressed that it will trigger the reaction of our fellow Members from LMP, so perhaps if I could summarize it in the next few sentences. I myself do not believe that labelling that many speakers have done makes sense. I also do not believe that considering the decades of history of Europe, it makes sense to take an anti-free trade agreement position in general. Once again, I would like to say that, in general, to take an anti-free trade agreement position. Therefore, in order to summarise briefly the position of the MSZP, I must say that we believe that it is not generally possible to talk about anti-free trade agreement behaviour. We need to look specifically at this agreement that we have ahead of us. Otherwise, just as a parentheses note: of course, if someone disputes the European Commission's unilateral communication, as my better fellow Member has done, that the European Commission is unilaterally presenting only its advantages, I think this is a debate that is taking place not only between the Commission but also between the parties, where everyone will say, if you like, one-sidedly, their position. I think we're gonna have a good discussion. I do not think that the European Commission can have a position on this issue, as Jobbik, LMP, Fidesz, MSZP and the other parties can obviously have a position on this issue. They're gonna crash now. However, it is an important fact that there has not been a national discourse on this issue in recent years or months, which should have developed in order to do so, we do not see clearly with regard to genetically modified foods, but neither workers' unions nor other organisations have been involved in this discussion. I hope this is the beginning of this. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-26-56	Thank you, Congressman. The next scheduled speaker is Mr Richard Hörcsik, Member Fidesz.
u2015-02-26-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members of the European Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, It is a welcome fact that one of the most important issues in the European Union is being discussed in the Hungarian Parliament today, and it is not only at committee meetings that an opinion is delivered on this issue. I note that we have already discussed the state of affairs in the Committee on European Affairs during the last six months, István Mikola, State Secretary. I also welcome the fact that the Hungarian member of the European Commission is also involved in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, As Minister Péter Szijjártó mentioned in his exposé, Hungary has been supporting the EU-US free trade negotiations from the outset, which we believe can bring serious benefits to the open Hungarian economy - if: if we can represent our interests properly during the negotiations. However, Annex XXI is amended as follows: One of the most important possible agreements of the 20th century is currently characterised by a number of uncertainties, as we have heard in the last debate. Mr President, Now I would like to briefly point out just a few of these to move the debate forward in Parliament. First, I would like to talk about the role of national parliaments. Mr President, The negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership have so far been on the agenda of a number of inter-parlamental discussions at EU level, for example, perhaps the most important one for us during the Greek plenary session of the European Affairs Committees last June. At the initiative of the Dutch Parliament, the Presidents of 23 parliamentary committees of the Member States, including myself, will deliver a joint written opinion to the then member of the European Commission responsible for trade policy. In our letter, we were primarily concerned with the lack of information and transparency about the negotiations, and we expressed our conviction that the EU-Canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the EU-US agreement under construction should be seen as a so-called mixed agreement, as many of its provisions also concern matters falling within the competence of the Member States. In other words, Member States' parliamentary ratifications will be inevitable. Well, as Mr Balczó said, the European Commission replied in October last year, according to which the nature of the agreement can only be judged after the negotiations have been concluded, in the light of the final provisions. However, I would also like to mention to Mr Balczó that the Commission has added to this that TTIP is expected to be a so-called mixed agreement. This is also included in the letter. Mr President, In my view, it is essential that the governments of the Member States constantly signal to the European Commission with a negotiating mandate that, in addition to the European Parliament's contribution, Member States' parliamentary reinforcements are needed. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, without ratification of national parliaments, there is no TTIP and without ratification of the Hungarian Parliament there is no agreement. [[12.40]] I believe that this is why it is important to have this debate and debate within the framework of this House. Secondly, I would like to talk about the lack of information. With regard to transparency and information sharing, I feel that there has been some movement in the European Union's space during the autumn. In order to increase transparency in the negotiation process, the EU Council therefore unanimously decided on 9 October 2014 to publish the negotiating directives approved for the Commission and also to welcome the attitude of the new Commission. Therefore, since the appointment of a member of the negotiating body responsible for trade policy on 1 November 2014, a number of measures have been taken in relation to the availability of information, which is a forward-looking step. For example, following the eighth round of negotiations in the second week of February 2015, the College, as State Secretary Mikola mentioned, published the written EU position on the regulatory cooperation chapter on one of the essential elements of the agreement to be given to the US in the previous week. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that similar further steps to increase transparency are certainly necessary in order to review the process, since Member State government representatives often do not have access to key materials - this is also a matter of truth. At the same time, there is also a urgent need for the United States to make public its positions on specific issues. The third thing I want to say is that of investor-state dispute resolution. One of the most controversial areas of TTIP is the issue of investor-state dispute resolution, which we have also heard. It is also known that last year the European Commission launched a public consultation on the subject, with a record number of some 150,000 responses. According to my information, this consultation sought an answer to the question of whether the proposed EU approach would strike the right balance between protecting investment and preserving the right and the ability of the EU and its Member States to regulate in the public interest. I would like to add that an international arbitration dispute between investors and states is not from the devil, it is not a novelty in this regard, the EU Member States have already concluded 1400 similar bilateral agreements, which go back to the years 60, 70 and 80. The approach proposed by the EU differs substantially from the approach set out in the previous Convention on Traditional Provisions mentioned above. Another important factor is that, in terms of investment protection and investor-state dispute resolution, for example, following negotiations with Singapore in December 2012 and in September 2014 with Canada, the EU has set the highest standards for transparency, fairness and accountability. Well, Mr President, it is therefore to be welcomed that, in view of the results of the public consultation, negotiations on investment protection under TTIP have been suspended and can only be resumed if the Commission considers that its new proposals ensure, inter alia, that the jurisdiction of the courts of the EU Member States is not limited by the specific rules governing investor-state dispute resolution. By the way, all this coincides with the statement made by the new Commissioner for Trade, Mrs Cecilia Malmström, that a good agreement is much more important than a hasty one. I believe that this is in line with the Hungarian government's ambitions. Furthermore, it is also a talkative factor for me that France and Germany called for a revision of the negotiating position on the protection of investment under TTIP in January this year. We can therefore see, ladies and gentlemen, that there is considerable uncertainty about the modern dispute resolution mechanism. In my view, it is crucial to achieve European-balanced provisions in the negotiations, both in the TTIP investment chapter and in the TTIP agreement as a whole, so as far as possible, there should be no need for a specific dispute resolution mechanism between foreign investors and host States. Point 22 of the EU negotiating mandate states that two conditions should be met in this respect: (1) prior consultation with Member States, (2) compliance with the EU Treaty. Mr President, In view of all of this, I believe that the Government's position that, among countries where the legal service system is sufficiently mature and stable, the use of national courts to resolve possible disputes between foreign investors and the host State is appropriate, so there is no need to provide for the possibility of recourse to international arbitration. I hope that the European Commission's new proposals for investment protection will be in line with the government's position. Ladies and gentlemen, That's why I'm asking you to support this contract. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker is Mr István Ujhelyi, MEP.
u2015-02-26-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much to the honourable Parliament for allowing MEPs to comment on this debate. The debate is always good, conflicting interests and, of course, discussing views on such a plenum can be useful, especially on a matter that is absolutely certain to determine the future of our future decades, but also our children and grandchildren. Therefore, let me give you a surprising piece of information at the very beginning: I have not yet decided how I will vote as a Member of the European Parliament, when, when we do not yet know when, this Treaty of the European Parliament, which brings the end of this debate, will come into the plenary session of the European Parliament, which brings the result of the negotiations itself. I wanted to say this right away because in many respects I am close to the point that Mr Zsolt Németh said that there has been almost a debate of faith, and perhaps a party would like to appear in Hungarian public life with this, that either they represent a very populist position, or that they represent an extremely radical, extreme, no, no, never-suffering affair, which has a certain place in history in many cases, but at the beginning of a trial in which Hungarian society can be reviled. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Rebel!]] Or the voters of any other country may be unnecessary and dangerous. It was comforting to me what I heard from the representatives of the government, and I know that from my mouth I am surprising, in many cases criticizing our Commissioner Tibor Navracsics, for example, but what he has just said seems to me as if the members of the Commission and the Commissioner from the Hungarian Government were at least responsible for examining how much Hungary and the European Union would have an interest in concluding such an agreement and what conditions we have and what we do not have. Compared to this, I ask which is the real face of Fidesz now, because the wind rooster policy that we have criticized and criticized in countless cases is also shown on this issue. It is not just that some Fidesz politicians say otherwise, but also that the same politicians wake up one day with other politicians than they say the next day, and let me remind you of the words of Congressman Antal Rogán, Mr Group leader, who saw the pressure of the United States of America in the TTIP negotiations, György Schöpflin, MEP did the same, and even in a Christmas interview by Viktor Orbán himself. And while Szabolcs Takács, Minister of State of Prime Ministership here, expressed in perfectly correct sentences what the Hungarian Government expects from the negotiations of the coming years, I do not know if you are aware that, at these moments, your boss, János Lázár, signed a signatory letter to an anti-TTIP demonstration on Kossuth Square, outside the Parliament. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] [[12.50]] So what is the real face of the Hungarian government now? To inform Hungarian society on the basis of the behaviour of the Hungarian government? How do you expect that if one of the political parties, the LMP, is going to name a populist text here that I haven't heard since the '70s against imperialism and capitalism, I wasn't even born at the beginning of it, and Jobbik, as many people in Hungary say, is already in Jobbik, emphasising its basic position here against any kind of agreement with the United States of America. So, it is difficult for the Hungarian society to know, and that is why I am protecting us from bringing down such an extremely long-term agreement to the poorness of Hungarian internal politics in the coming years. I predict that the ratification of this treaty to the Hungarian Parliament and the European Parliament will certainly not be necessary in two or three years, because the final agreement will not be on our table. Let me point out to you that while the Jobbik-LMP coalition, which tells a multitude of half-truths, is quite certain to make a lot of meaningful comments on what we need to pay attention to, what are the dangerous points, I have not heard a single sentence about what is the alternative to this agreement. The lock-in? Our exit from the European Union [[Dr. András Schiffer and György Balla intervene.]] Like what other parties often pick on, by the way? 'Cause in the meantime, let's keep an eye on what's happening in the world economy. More than a year ago, the Eurasian Economic Union, which President Putin advocates and collects, the essence of which - and even Wikipedia says so, so do not think that I am a socialist politician in this House with such a strange use of the word - says the Eurasian Economic Union, whose aim is the free flow of capital and services, is created on the basis of the European Union, rejecting the fundamental values of the European Union. So there is an interesting process in the world that there is an Eurasian Economic Union, and as if many times as some members of the Hungarian Government, Jobbik is also dancing towards the fact that we are not fitting Hungarian interests into the agreement between the European Union and the United States, but we are breaking this process from the inside and rather joining the economic union of Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus and Armenia. It's an existing alternative. Well, then, put this on the table. Let's talk about whether it was at the Putin-Orbán meeting. Because we don't know. Let us talk about whether certain political forces, including those with the membership of the European Union in Parliament, such as Jobbik, are convinced by the Russian President and his political environment, why the internal discipline and internal cohesion of the European Union should be disrupted, as we have heard many times. So, there will be plenty of questions, and I will come back to what Commissioner Tibor Fidesz Navracsics said, and as the representative of the government has said in today's debate, that is correct to me. And maybe we won't vote in the same way in a year or two, because once again, I don't have the information that would allow me to take a negative attitude as quickly as Mr Schiffer or Jobbik. I mean, you don't even have that information yet. In any case, the MSZP faction has asked me to present to you the position of the faction belonging to the European Socialist Party, the S&D fraction, as it may be important in this debate. I would therefore like to sum up in a few sentences: the Social Democratic Group of the European Parliament recognises and recognises the potential of the agreement, particularly the opening up of the US market in terms of service sector and public procurement, as regards the introduction of European technological standards and standards, quality procedures in the US market. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the fact that we would like to enforce legislation which is extremely strict, i.e. the International Labour Office which is stricter than US legislation and the rules governing the rights and rules of EU workers in this agreement, and I therefore welcome the proposal for cooperation with trade unions mentioned by the MSZP fraction. Overall, S&D's position is that the EU rules must not be loosened in any way by the agreement, strict data protection measures should be provided, financial markets should be regulated so that the unregulated transatlantic money flows experienced in the global economic crisis can no longer contribute to a similar situation. It is not possible to circumvent the democratic legislative process, to enforce workers' rights, to ensure that this particular dispute resolution procedure is not included in the final agreement, and to ensure that the negotiations on the agreement and the whole process are transparent, including GMO and agricultural issues. Well, dear Jobbik and LMP colleagues, if our conditionality, which we stress, is not good for you, then, of course, there is something to discuss, but at least let the debate continue, and then we will decide how to vote. Thank you very much. And the graffiti that says "stop the Earth" I want out of it! Now, don't put that on the office wall too often, because the problem is that we have to see that the Earth is spinning, which we have to train for. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-26-60	Thank you, Congressman. There will be two out-of-court speeches. First, I give the floor to Secretary István Mikola in two minutes.
u2015-02-26-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say very briefly that, although the United States has not yet laid out all its cards, there has been a great deal of information on the Internet on the website of the Directorate-General for Trade in recent days. So I suggest we go to this website. Indeed, it contains very valuable information that can help our judgment to be fulfilled. The resolution is not timely today in favour of TTIP or against TTIP, nor is it timely at government level. This is about negotiating, negotiating. It is said that, at best, a text can be created optimally by the end of 2016 which, after translations and a great deal of administration, will be adopted before the Council of Europe, Parliament and the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament. I would also like to say that the Eurobarometer has carried out a representative survey of the European Member States, in which 62 percent of the people in Hungary support the negotiation process on the basis of a representative sample, there are only 10 against it. Interestingly, this indicates 73 percent support in Poland, 62 percent in Slovakia, and interesting in Germany, despite the fact that Parliament's parties clearly support this trade agreement and negotiations for it, only 39 percent of the population has supporters. So there's an extremely large variation. In Hungary, the EU average is also exceeded by TTIP's support. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-26-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Szabolcs Takács.
u2015-02-26-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, I asked for the floor - and thank you for the opportunity - to reflect on Mr István Ujhelyi's point of view. And not because you have brought to my attention that while I am saying something here in Parliament, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office is doing something other than the walls of Parliament. The dream book says it's not good to say anything other than your boss, especially in public, but that's not why I asked for the opportunity. I would like to draw attention to the fact that what I have said and what my minister has done is not in conflict with each other, in fact. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] In fact, if I may recall my comment just now, I said that the government's aim is to involve those involved in economic life and social life in this consultation. [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is not what János Lázár signed!]] I have it in my hand, Congressman, a publication that has been registered by three organizations: Greenpeace, the Association of Hungarian Conservationists and the Defence Association. Their concerns about TTIP are identified in five points. If I may, I would like to quote: you have concerns about the secret negotiations, the diluted regulation, the secret private courts, the subsequent unilateral treaty amendment, not the interests of the multinationals, but the interests of the people. This is also fully in line with the government's approach. [[13.00]] The Minister wanted to demonstrate this, otherwise in the spirit of social consultation. And here is another sentence: Greenpeace, the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors and the Defence Association say that we must prevent the EU-US Free Trade Agreement that is being prepared from endangering our future. We can also agree with this, which is why we have expressed our agreement. And there is another sentence: the forthcoming free trade agreement can sweep away the results of environmental protection and nature protection over decades and freeze future regulations. Obviously, this is not in our interest, the Government is also seeking to ensure that these are not implemented, and the Minister is also in favour of social and civil initiatives which, by the way, advocate the pursuit of the interests listed above and which affect this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr János Harghitai, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-02-26-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are discussing a treaty where we can only have read experiences collected from the Internet, and we are doing about the same reading experiences - that is what I can see from the sentences of those who have spoken so far, which I have read myself. It is an abnormal situation in itself that we are discussing a major agreement without any specific information on it. This is clearly a right to criticise the procedure that the European Union, in particular the European Commission, has so far represented, because this procedure meant that all the information was not restricted to the representatives of national parliaments, but, as it is said here, the MEPs have not seen these preparations. Obviously, because this is the case, that is why everyone has a very strong position, especially Congressman Schiffer, who has a perfect vision for the future, and who already knows that what is about to happen is not good for us. I like the calmness represented by two of the government's ministers, Secretary of State Mikola and Secretary of State Takács. As a government representative, I would be embarrassed if their enthusiasm was something I could hardly follow. They're careful. I agree with Mr Mikola, Secretary of State, when he said that we should negotiate, we must enter into this process, because it is not a solution to shut down and just look at what is happening around us. I also think that a good fence is the key to a good neighbourhood. So we need to represent an agreement where the fence is properly built. In other pictures, the Prime Minister spoke of an open window on which to put the mosquito net; I think that a strong fence must be built here. We need to know what investors in the United States can do in this region, in this area of 93,000 square kilometres, in this part of Europe, here in Hungary, and what they cannot do, which is obviously not in our interest. So we would have to beat these stakes perfectly, and to do that, we would have to give the Hungarian government grips to negotiate this way when these moments come. It is also customary to characterize this convention as a new covenant of the free world. I don't like it when we describe it as a new alliance of the free world. On the one hand, I have a lot of problems with the indicator of the free world, seeing how this free world works when it represents its interests - the stronger state in the free world vis-à-vis weaker states, or even how the free world represents its interests in Ukraine. Therefore, I would like to put aside this exalted sign of the free world, and I would make it realistic to say that there is nothing here but the free world - if I remain in this picture - that it fears its positions of war and rightly fears for it. Prognostizations that we read in countless places - how world trade will change by 2050, what positions China will gain by 2050, what positions India will take in world trade, how the positions of the US and the European Union will change - rightly say to us that it is good for the free world to be concerned, because, in view of current trends, we can simply take it for granted. If the free world gets together on both sides of the Atlantic and holds on tight, then maybe it can stop this loss of position. Even if we fight, we lose positions, but we might be able to stop our losing position. We can read about many kinds of studies on the Internet, and obviously the Hungarian government has also prepared such studies. Some have referred to the Századvég study and, of course, everyone here is always quoting those in the parliamentary debate that might strengthen his view. On our part, it is said - I quote these figures carefully - that perhaps such an agreement will increase Hungarian GDP by 0.2-0.3 percent, and 20-30 thousand new jobs can be created. I also know findings that say that more than one million jobs are lost in Europe, 130 000 jobs are lost in Germany, German personal income tax is reduced by more than EUR 3 000 per capita, and even more so in France. Then in a country with a weaker economy, such as Hungary, what numbers should be projected? I am only quoting these because - I repeat - there are countless estimates, and we obviously don't know which one is realistic, because we should estimate a slightly moving target, and in the future, none of us can see anything but Schiffer. He was the only one who spoke very confidently about why such an agreement should not be concluded. I think it is inevitable that we should enter into this debate. Minister Szijjártó spoke long about the movements in the world economy that encourage these great agreements to come to life, and if the United States and the European Union do not think about it, the rest of the world is thinking about it. So this is a challenge that we have to face, and that is why I say that we must seek a good agreement and not shut down from such an agreement. With regard to sensitive issues raised in the thinking of Hungarian MEPs, perhaps partly rightly, the vision of GMO-free is what is most before us. I would also like to say that I do not think that the protection of the Fundamental Law in itself is a guarantee of anything. Mr Balczó is right that if this agreement is concluded and the agreement does not guarantee our GMO exemption, then the Fundamental Law cannot protect us, because the law adopted by the European Union will break the guarantees of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. So let's be aware of that. We have experienced cases like this many times in the last cycle that we have recorded something in the Fundamental Law, and yet the European Union has broken these constitutional guarantees. Therefore, the law of the European Union is stronger in this respect than any provision of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, and the European Union could enforce it by court. However, apart from GMO-free, if I look at this from the point of view of agriculture, it is not just the GMO-free approach that should be considered, because if such an agreement is concluded, then I think that the European world where we are living in Europe is over. Of course, it could be over without that. We think that, in the 2020 European budget cycle ahead, we will still have a significant amount of EU funds, but this may be the last, which is why we need to spend these funds well. But we also have to face it here, and obviously farmers in Western Europe are also facing it, that if such an agreement comes into force in my view, that is to say, we will allow Europe to have all the competitions in American agriculture, we will reduce the duties that still exist today, and that competition will enter into force, then there will be no European agriculture supported from then on. Because there is no free market in agriculture in Europe today, and it is a system of support. So we also need to be aware of that. Let us not only focus on GMOs, this agreement will bring about a whole different agricultural relationship in the European Union. The - pardon for the expression - agricultural system that we enjoy is likely to be questioned, and this is important to highlight. [[13.10]] With regard to conflict resolution, which has also been mentioned here, whether it is possible, if you like, to lift such a system above the will of national parliaments, I do not find it sufficient - Commissioner Navracsics has spoken about it - there are countless examples in the world or in Hungarian international treaties that we operate with this system of arbitration. Of course, we operated a lot, but this is a whole other type of contract that would be created here. I would not be happy if arbitrations, either against the Hungarian Parliament or against the system of judicial institutions operated by the Hungarian Parliament, or without them, could judge as a kind of competitor questions that the people's representatives think about and think otherwise of this, I do not know who created the arbitration. If this position is justified... - the position of the Hungarian Government here, too, I think it is clear: we do not see the need for an arbitration system. Zsolt Németh, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, made a firm statement that Fidesz does not think this system is right. At the same time, I felt the difference of emphasis between the representatives of the government and the Commissioner's voice, because that is not the position that the Commissioner expressed. But don't be surprised. Mr Ujhelyi, Member, can speak like this, that Fidesz speaks like this, and when the former Minister speaks like this; today he speaks as a Commissioner, he is not a representative of Fidesz, but a member of the Commission of the European Union, and clearly stresses the interests of the Commission in such a debate. It's not like I had a problem with any of his sentences, because he reasoned calmly. But the Hungarian government's position is more sharp and stronger when arguing against the arbitration system. Fidesz's lead speaker made it even more clear in this regard. If the arbitration system were to prevail in this agreement, I would be right for the Asian thinker who says in his speech that democracy is acceptable to neoliberals until democracy contradicts competition in the free market. This is what we are talking about: the position of the free market and democracy can conflict in some way, and I also think that true democracy must prevail and not the free market. I think, as a summary, that it is inevitable that we face the challenge here. Sooner or later, a treaty like this, I think it's made. If they are bound, the interests of Hungary must be protected. We can only protect Hungarian interests if we are there, follow and take a strong position. Are there institutional guarantees that Commissioner Navracsics has been talking about? Of course, some guarantee is obviously the negotiating mandate given to the Commission by the European Council. But once again, the Commission is an institution of the European Union, not an intergovernmental institution. The European Commission has been surrounded by lobbyists in the negotiations, but MEPs have not seen this plate. So the real guarantee is not the European Commission, even if it is tied to a negotiating mandate, because it can be used at some level. The European Council is already a guarantee, where the representative of the Hungarian Government - this is the Prime Minister on the board of Heads of State and Heads of Government - cannot be bypassed. So when some want to strengthen or weaken Viktor Orbán, those who want to weaken him think that everything is on this man's shoulders, because he is the guarantee; the European Council as an institution is the guarantee, where unanimous decisions must be taken, and the will of the Prime Minister speaking in our behalf cannot be swept aside. And, of course, the national parliament is also a guarantee. If I was to interpret - yesterday I tried to do this - the sovereignty clause of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, which we have literally moved from the old constitution to the new Fundamental Law, I cannot reach a position on this issue that would tell me whether this agreement could be concluded without parliamentary ratification. I do not think it can be concluded, it is right to take this position, because this is another substantial institutional guarantee that things will happen for our own good. And for that to happen, you have to be there to negotiate. And in this endeavour, the government must be supported by Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-66	Thank you, Congressman Harghitai. The next announced speaker was Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik.
u2015-02-26-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As our lead speakers have shown, Jobbik strongly rejects the EU-US Free Trade Agreement. We are pleased that this debate can take place today and, in this way, a meaningful exchange of views on this important issue will be possible. I cannot respond briefly to the words of István Ujhelyi, MEP of the MSZP. I think that they are sufficiently uncredited by a representative of a party whose predecessors considered internationalism to be one of the main values. It is no wonder, of course, that they find it difficult to do with the fact that, in this case, Jobbik is not a foreign country, but is clearly focusing on the representation of Hungarian national interests when expressing its views on the Convention. In terms of government and Fidesz, we have experienced a kind of double speech over the last few months, which is not new, of course, because in many cases this has already been done in relation to similar proposals. I am thinking that a number of critical comments have been made, but at government level we have heard a position that clearly supports, for example, at the previous meeting of the Committee on European Affairs or even here today, and Richárd Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, said that this convention must be supported. It can be seen that they are trying to be more nuanced towards the public, but it seems clear - and it seems so at European Parliament level - that they are in favour of this convention. There are a number of arguments that could be put forward as to why this will be particularly harmful to our country, whether in terms of our national self-determination or in terms of economic aspects or other aspects. In the absence of time here, obviously I can only address this in terms of titles. Impact studies, research; this has been mentioned here in several speeches. The fact is that we have not been able to see meaningful and well-developed professional impact studies that could anticipate the short- and long-term consequences of TTIP. When István Mikola was our guest at the committee meeting a few months ago, he said that he would deliver the necessary materials to us. Compared to this, Gábor Staudt and I presented a written question in which we noted where these well-founded impact studies were, and the response to this clearly indicated that there were no such issues in substance, so there are no such ones at the disposal of the government, which could show what the consequences of this convention would be. It is therefore difficult to establish a responsible position in this regard. Of course, this proposal is packaged nicely, since the growth of GDP, job creation, and the rise in living standards are the calling words that appear at EU level, but it would be recalled that these were the main arguments before the signing of the NAFTA agreement. And we can see that Mexico has also lost its promised growth, even putting the US companies in position and bringing further benefits. And I am convinced that the conclusion of the Convention would have very adverse consequences for the less developed Member States of the EU, or, to mention another aspect, a reduction in intra-European trade could result, which is also detrimental to our country. We have also talked about the lack of transparency of the negotiations, and, for example, László Parragh, President of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, expressed his opinion on this in an interview; he said that the negotiations were not going to take place properly, and indeed, representatives of large companies are negotiating primarily with politicians, which leads us to conclude what the outcome will be. I also raised the issue of transparency at the committee meeting this Monday, because the Latvian Presidency has undertaken to take substantial steps in this direction, but when I asked the Ambassador how they intend to do so in practice, I unfortunately did not get a concrete reply. Information to the public would be extremely important, and today's debate could be a means of doing so, and that is why, among other things, we have supported, in addition to, of course, the great importance of the Convention, the creation of this debate day. [[13.20]] I would not mention the issue of GMOs, food safety or the threat of Hungaricums, which will be done by my fellow factions. In very short, I would like to say a few sentences about ISDS, the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, because this is about companies being able to sue the states in arbitrations and also refer back to NAFTA, where we have seen a number of the lawsuits against Mexico, for example, in tax cases or in other public regulatory matters, and the states have been left behind in these cases. So it can be said that multinational companies may, where appropriate, prevent countries' ideas on matters of strategic importance, and it is therefore not a coincidence that the intention of the Americans is to conclude this agreement even during the presidency of Obama. I think it's quite talkative, too. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises, the SME sector, can be a major loser of the conclusion of the convention, or it is also worth bringing here the issue of workers' rights. I would ask that the government, in the appropriate forums, strongly represent national interests. We have heard promises of further negotiations. We hope that this will indeed happen to the parliamentary parties. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-68	Thank you very much. I give Mr Mikola István State Secretary the opportunity to make an extraordinary speech in two minutes.
u2015-02-26-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened with interest to the speaker of the great congressman of Jobbik. I would like to ask you, if you so rigidly reject the entire transatlantic free trade agreement, the debate process, what right or why you are asking for the materials. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] We're about to issue a bigger briefing. Please tell me at that time - in the coming months the following topics will be on the agenda during the negotiations - how to stand up from the table? ! Liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, the issue of certain veterinary and phytosanitary measures, the opening of public procurement markets, the regulation of financial services, the opening of markets for maritime and air transport, the investment protection, the ISDS agreement, public procurement, the protection of geographical origin names. What I sense here is that some people are rigidly shut off from negotiations, like when, let's say, the atheist begins to argue in the spirit of ecumenical. We need support, please, in the negotiations. I am jealous of the Germans, where the parliamentary parties unanimously support the German delegation negotiating in Brussels. We are also socialising on this issue, we have discussed it with 40 organisations, since then 80 people have re-entered, because we need social support and political support when we are sitting at the negotiating table, from which one side of which the United States, under the unanimous direction of the State Department, speak one language in the background, we are figuratively sitting on the other side of the negotiating table, 28 of us, 28 of us speaking the language, not our mother tongue, and we need to negotiate with the world's greatest economic power. We need support in the negotiations in Brussels, and I respectfully ask the public of Parliament to give us this support. By only weakening us in such a difficult battle, national interests that are not easily represented in Brussels, such as GMOs, are more difficult to meet the national requirements that are being imposed on us every day. With all due respect, I'd rather have your support than your criticism. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-26-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next pre-notified speaker was Mrs Pelczné dr. Ildikó Gáll, Member of the European Parliament.
u2015-02-26-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with Mr State Secretary, I am also surprised by the speech that is so negative about a negotiation that has just begun and, according to the best, most optimistic scenario, there will be a text by December 2016 that we can already form an opinion on. At the very beginning, Mr Schiffer, Mr Schiffer, who was quite surprised by this rigid position, will then be able to see that their views in this regard are very different, at least not so rigid, if he agrees with his fellow Members in the European Parliament. On the other hand, in the case of an investment and commercial negotiation, what the underlying ideas are at the hearing, it cannot be. It should be assumed that this is a series of negotiations, initial steps, which is a partnership agreement for trade and investment. It should be assumed that this is a trade partnership, which is very significant, a very significant relationship of 46.7 per cent worldwide, and that, therefore, we should withdraw from this debate as if we were not interested in this debate, and I think it is irresponsible. Responsiblely, we act when we use this debate day, which is an excellent initiative, to give ammunition, to move forward in the rounds of negotiations. I want us to take this responsibility seriously, and Parliament will take it seriously. Mr Balczó, who is a member of the European Parliament committee that deals with this issue, would, for example, give us tasks in terms of what he should represent, because it is possible to represent something well if we know what the expectations are, the expectations of his representatives, the political expectations for us. I would like us to focus specifically on whether there are advantages, whether there are advantages to such an agreement or not. There can be benefits if we stay in the negotiation process and remain partners. There can be a lot of benefits, both direct and mostly indirect, and yes, there can be benefits for the SME sector specifically from the supply chain, for example in the automotive sector, if we can properly represent it. You can also conclude bad agreements, and you are now trying to conclude precisely from these bad agreements or enforced agreements why an unfinished process will be bad for us. This is a mistake! Linking this process with the Mexican agreement, the Canadian agreement or the agreement with the poor countries is a mistake. This would have happened if the committee had negotiated as it started, without transparency, openness and publicity. This can't be happening. My fellow Members, at present in the European Parliament, we do not have a majority of supporters of this negotiation; this majority is uncertain. That is why all MEPs are vigilantly watching the process and trying to shape it, focusing on what will be represented at the next rounds of negotiations, such as agriculture, how, for example, we can keep the tariff quotas that are important for us in the field of sweet corn, beef, pigmeat or the chemical industry; that Tokaj wine can be called Tokaji, so that those geographical indications are included and recognised by this negotiation. This is our responsibility, and this is a shared responsibility, the responsibility of the Members of Parliament and the responsibility of the European Parliament. That is what ratification is all about. I think that we will be monitoring the process of the negotiation, giving tasks and proper representation, and we will vote in favour when we are confident with all the information that this is good for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-26-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. In the meantime, we have corrected the error on the board, and we have not spoken by an independent Member, but by our Member of the European Parliament at the expense of the time frame of Fidesz. We now have a preliminary speaker, Mrs Bernadett Szél, who is not independent, but LMP.
u2015-02-26-73	Absolutely, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Let us talk a little bit about the facts, because we have now heard so much from the government about what is possible, that such a science fiction woman is starting to develop today's parliamentary debate. The LMP did not initiate us to talk about what you want to achieve, but to talk about the facts, which is rather difficult, because it is indeed again a project in which almost everything is secret, everyone is also encrypting their own internal material, and from here on it is really difficult to talk about what will come out of it, but we can see a few things anyway. Look, I make it clear that LMP can support nothing, but nothing that would endanger Hungarian wages, nothing, but nothing that could mean losing Hungarian people's jobs. TTIP is like this, so from now on, we will not support it under any circumstances. [[13.30]] I am very surprised at the Hungarian Parliament's fractions, which do not begin the speeches with this, because that is the most important. In this country, jobs are still lacking, and wages in this country are low. Bring me papers that say wages will increase and jobs will increase; it's not like that. By the way, one of the scariest things in the Free Trade Agreement is that they are trying to make us believe that this is about what will happen to large companies and, of course, to governments and the European Union, but that is not the case. This will happen to us, this will happen to Hungarian people, and if it is up to you, we will have very little say in what will happen to our own destiny in the next period. I therefore believe that you have seen the studies that concern the fact that the fate of the jobs of tens of thousands and indirectly more Hungarian workers will be put at risk if this convention is ratified. In particular, to quote the European Commission - it is an internal evaluation, of course, it is also encrypted - it is said that there will be significant and prolonged costs for jobs that will be lost as a result of TTIP. So these internal investigations exactly show that jobs will be lost here. But let's see what others have to say. That's where the unions are. Do you even know what trade unions, the Hungarian trade unions, think about this convention? Ask them, please, as long as they're on the wheel. For example, I can quote, I have spoken to them, I know what they think, they do not support this agreement. I can also tell you that British trade unions have also calculated that 680,000 jobs at EU level would be at risk if this convention were to be implemented between the United States and the European Union. But there is another estimate, according to the International Labour Organisation, that 600 thousand people's jobs would be at risk and, moreover, they add that there would also be a reduction of thousands of euros per year. On the other hand, you stand up here in the Hungarian Parliament and say that sometimes 15-20,000 new jobs are created and 20-30,000 new jobs are created, but otherwise you forget to say how many people will lose their jobs by creating these alleged new jobs, because you are only looking at one side of the balance sheet and not looking at the other. It's gonna be, like, 15 or 20 grand, and in the meantime, how much is gonna be lost? Tell me this number. Tell me this number, calculate it, and sit at the negotiating table if you want to negotiate so much, but it is not worth discussing, from which Hungary comes out wrong in every way, and then what you think is possible. No, calculate the effect that this will have on us. Or there's the studies, let's make them public, let's get to know your calculations. Which is another totally outrageous measure - and this has now been covered by more people, but it's actually just the surface - about what happens when a state becomes suable; it seems like a very bad science fiction, like a science fiction at some point in the future, when a state whose most important task is to protect its citizens is sued from a multinational company. I'm sure you've seen these science-fantastic movies, I've seen them, that's what's happening, that's what it is. The point is that a multinational company will have such power that the state can only serve its demands as a lackey, the Hungarian employee, who is used to having rights - once, once, long ago, now less and less - simply finds himself unable to take measures in which it does not favour profit, because he knows that it will become suable in a court of law. What do you think a state will have in such a case? Nothing! They take over multinational companies, that's what happens, that's what's written in this. To continue with this whole unworthy story, I think it's possible to stand up here with big words, that TTIP world and TTIP consciousness, and we're part of a cult. Well, please, it's unworthy. The fact that man is on the side of Hungarian workers is not a cult, but a basic quality that brings us to Parliament. "Maybe Other" is what he always said. We look at the interests of employees, against capital and against the United States or Russia or anyone else, we are on the side of Hungarians. And I don't think you guys really know what you're doing, because getting on the line - you have a lot of time frame, I see that - and telling me the things you're imagining, I think it's a little luxurious. Report to the Hungarian citizens what they have placed on the table, what they have discussed, where they are. Don't just talk about GMOs, talk about what will happen to Hungarian workers! I would also add that they also tried to promote this agreement by opening up the US state procurement market for companies, Hungarian companies. The sad fact is, however, that Hungarian companies are not currently strong enough to be viable in this market. In particular, this is not because they are not talented or innovative enough, because they would be, but you have done so, taking measures that have not allowed these businesses to grow. You created a tax system and a corrupt support system from which these companies came out wrong. The business environment is completely unpredictable. These companies are suffering in this country, you're not helping them, but now you're pushing these companies into a global competition market operating under wolf laws. I could say that if I wanted to write this down with a picture, that you would hang a lot of weight on Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and then enter them in a swimming contest where everyone besides them is a multiple Olympic champion and then swim, and then this is a fantastic opportunity, the government has arranged for them. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in view of the limited time frame, to take another criticism. I think we have to agree that if something is secret, it can't be good. If there's something secret, we can start to suspect that there's something going on there that you and the people you're negotiating with are reluctant to put out the window. However, it is quite novel that we have now come to the point that there is a secret agreement, the study listing the supposed benefits of which is also encrypted. So now you're actually encrypting the secret - I can't even say it - is basically a complete nonsense you're doing, and then you're coming to Parliament for a debate day and you're going to tell me what's possible. Talk to me, ladies and gentlemen, about the facts. By the way, I see that you have every reason to keep secrets, because you know precisely that this is a convention from which the Hungarian people will not come out well, this is a convention that clearly serves the interests of the capital. Multinational companies will come out of this, and Hungarian people will only get hurt. What I am particularly concerned about is the issue of wages and the fate of workers and the number of jobs at all. You have to take care of Hungary, you have to take care of the Hungarian workers, don't put them in such a position! [[Dr. Robert Répássy: We understand, teacher.]] Hold back a bit and go to negotiations with them to calculate exactly what these people are going to do and then come back and tell the Hungarian people with honor what they agree to do behind their backs. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The independent Members have one minute and two seconds' speaking time, and Gábor Fodor, an independent Member, has applied, but before giving the floor in this time frame, I will inform the Parliament that Bertalan Tóth, Deputy Head of the MSZP Group, has indicated that in today's political debate he will give Mr Gábor Fodor three minutes' speaking time after the speakers announced. So you'll have the floor for one minute, and then three minutes later, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I am grateful to the Socialist Party for this time transfer, but obviously I will not say the other part in two hours, in three minutes, what I would like to say. Of course, at a moment's notice, you can say incredible deep thoughts here in Parliament. Let me just say on behalf of the Liberal Party that we support the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement, because first of all we think that it is in Hungary's interest, this is in the interests of the Hungarian people, it will promote competition, it will help Hungarian companies to get to the market, it will strengthen them, it will not be under state guardianship, and it can help the Hungarian internal market and the Hungarian economy, that it will not be political distribution and mercy, but competition will decide first. On the other hand, it helps Europe because Europe needs competition, it needs stronger economic worlds, and it can also greatly boost Europe in GDP growth, and it is also a free trade agreement in per capita production growth, so we strongly and strongly support the conclusion of this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-26-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two-minute comments, first from Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2015-02-26-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think anyone thinks that this transatlantic agreement is a charity, and here we are at another stage in a huge geostrategic game. If we look at the energy strategy aspects, there was one in this agreement that we would have unlimited access to the U.S. supplies of raw materials and energy. No one seriously believes that by liquefying shale gas produced in the United States of America, which is produced by a very expensive method and environmentally polluting shale gas, it can be competitive at all with gas coming from Russia, Algeria, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan or Iran through a pipeline to Hungary. [[13.40]] This is simply a matter of the United States' desire to create a market for this energy carrier, and after that, I do not know what will happen if Hungary decides to choose the source of gas flowing here from an eastern or southern pipeline instead of otherwise expensive and polluting natural gas. Then you'll find yourself in front of some kind of court, where a shale gas-producing company will sue the country for its lost profits. So we're talking about a completely nonsensical situation. It is clear that we are talking about the geostrategic game, which is another field for Europe in this respect, how the United States can weaken and push Russia away from the gas market, the energy market on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is clear that it is in the United States' interest to reach an agreement on the Iranian nuclear programme, because then, with some sort of lifting of sanctions, the world's largest natural gas supply, Iranian natural gas supply, would also be available to Europe. This will make the United States even less interested. Therefore, and taking into account sustainability aspects, this agreement should be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-78	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for two minutes, LMP.
u2015-02-26-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, it is difficult enough that when someone tells you, they leave the Chamber. So, what we've seen is that it's growing together, and that's what it's all about. [[György Balla: The LMP and the Jobbik!]] The Fidesz government has received support from the false left, the liberal representatives who are allied with them; this is a platform. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: And which is the other platform? György Balla and Dr. Répássy Robert laugh.]] Zsuzsa Szelényi was absolutely right, it's a civilization debate. Orbán said that the expansion of free trade has proven to be good for the world. Zsuzsa Szelényi thinks the same thing that the laughing members of the government think is what István Ujhelyi thinks. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: And you, what Novák Foreman thinks!]] But we think [[György Balla: Amit Novák Előd!]] That, in particular, it is necessary to talk about the fact that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to be incorporated into the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the century, how to protect communities, how to protect people from extreme exploitation, how to protect our natural resources, land, water, air. This is indeed a civilization debate, and we are on the opposite side of this civilization debate. You can have fun here with the fact that the Liberal Congresswoman's argument - she has already left the Chamber - is that she starts taking pictures of me with Fidesz MEPs, because of what a skandalum she is. Come here, take part in the debate and tell us how to protect basic natural resources within the framework of such a free trade agreement, how to protect workers' rights when the United States wants to force its loose rules around the world. Talk about that. Mr. Secretary. It turns out why you're encrypting Paks. Well, what you said to the better Members was clear: if we don't agree with him, why do we want to question him? This practice is being continued with Paks. Mr Secretary of State was delirious here, and I was talking about CETA, the Canadian Convention, which the European Union has adopted, is about ratification. CETA is here at the gates, in CETA Hungary's GMO-free status has practically been lifted. Mr. Secretary. Answer my question clearly: what is the position of the Hungarian Government? Don't dazzle the peasants, don't dazzle the Hungarian electorate! Tell them that Hungary is ratifying a treaty that the European Union has adopted and is a threat to Hungary's GMO-free status. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-26-80	Thank you very much. István Nagy, Minister of State, will have the floor in two minutes.
u2015-02-26-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, As requested by András Schiffer, let me say a few words about this CETA agreement about what this means for Hungary. The article of the document regulates bilateral cooperation between Canada and the European Union in the field of biotechnology. Genetic engineering is part of biotechnology, so this article of the Convention also applies to GMOs. Pursuant to this Article, the Parties shall cooperate and exchange information on biological products which are of interest to both parties. In addition, the Parties recognise the importance of cooperation in the area of mutual cooperation. [[György Balla to Dr. András Schiffer, leaving the room: András Schiffer is leaving! Dr. András Schiffer: I'm not going out there!]] The text of the Convention shows that in the field of biotechnology, including GMOs, there is no obligation between the EU and Canada to relax the EU on a stricter GMO authorisation system based on scientific risk assessment than Canada, or to prohibit the cultivation of certain GMOs, or to speed up the authorisation of GMOs. In the European Union, GMOs may only be authorised after a scientific assessment of the health and environmental impacts, and even bans in Member States may be adopted if scientific evidence shows that the relevant GMO may have an adverse effect on animal, human health or our natural values. The CETA text only says that the Parties recognise the importance of cooperation on this issue and that they facilitate authorisation on a scientific basis. This does not give the Canadian party the right to enforce EU or Hungarian licensing rules. In other words, we can continue to reject the authorisation of genetically modified products and even maintain moratoriums on scientific risks or scientific uncertainties, and this is not contrary to WTO rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-82	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény in two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-02-26-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it is not my place to enlighten Mr Schiffer, especially not to lecture him, but, you know, I am a citizen of the European Union, besides being a Hungarian citizen of course, and, if I may say so, I am an enthusiastic Eurocrat, and the European Union has also started with a free trade association. Of course, I do not want to visualise that there will be united states of America and Europe, but, nevertheless, it is not certain that immediately, immediately, at the beginning, we should be able to negotiate on this issue. Mr Mikola, State Secretary, asked, let us say, for a mandate or authorisation to negotiate, the Hungarian Socialist Party would then like to give a mandate or authority in this respect in order to be able to represent the interests of Hungary in the first place, but of course also the interests of the European Union in the course of these negotiations properly and effectively. And, if you don't mind, let us put a clear, clear order in this, if you like, or a resolution, on the GMO already mentioned. The Hungarian Socialist Party welcomes the fact that Hungary is, let's say, a GMO-free zone. In recent years, when there has been a perhaps ember debate about this by the actors in agriculture, including interbranch organisations - and I would not mention the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, because it is an associated economic organization of Fidesz - but in any case, when we conducted this debate, we have, as I said, taken the view that Hungary should be a GMO-free zone as a common result. Of course, we intend to continue to maintain it in the future. Therefore, we would like to express that, in the context of the negotiations, they must insist that this agreement can only be supported if this certain GMO exemption can continue, because it is no longer necessary to talk about it here, and many of my fellow Members have also said about the dangers that it poses if genetically modified, genetically engineered products and crops could enter the European Union, including Hungary. Another question is, of course, that this would also significantly reduce the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture. Thank you.
u2015-02-26-84	Thank you, Congressman. Preliminary speeches will follow. First, Congressman László Földi, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-02-26-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the vast majority of Hungarian foreign trade is complicated with EU Member States on a level playing field in the EU's single internal market. In the last four years, trade in goods in European countries has shown a surplus of 9-10 billion. In addition, from the point of view of Hungary, there is a significant Hungarian activity in the balance sheet of bilateral trade in goods with the United States, which clearly indicates that, under predictable and fair trading conditions, the players of the Hungarian economy are also competitive in developed, demanding markets. We are interested in creating a balanced and ambitious agreement that improves the parties' chances of market access, deepens transatlantic regulation, cooperation and creates frameworks that contribute to economic growth and job creation at national, but also at European level. We believe that the positive effects of such an agreement should be shared by all EU Member States and sectors and shared in the same way. We believe that the draft agreement has three priority areas: facilitating market access, bringing trade rules into line and reducing non-tariff trade borders. [[13.50]] Dear House, It is likely to be a year or two before the agreement reaches its end, but it is already apparent that it is particularly important for Hungary, but also for the other EU countries, to ensure transparency in the negotiations, for which there is some progress, but we still have limited access to documents. Agriculture and the food industry are a number of priority areas for our country, since we have no interest in cutting down the current tariff quotas for certain products. For example, there are important priorities in the area of sweet corn, meat products, eggs, tobacco, sugar, but also in the area of harmonisation of regulations, which we must strongly signal to the European Commission, which is negotiating. Such a regulatory issue is the maintenance of the protection of agricultural products with geographical indications at EU level. So far, it was clear to us that only the ham made in Parma could be described as the ham made in Parma or the wine made in Tokaj as the Tokaj wine. That's how it's supposed to stay. It is also of particular interest that EU rules on human health, animal and plant health, food safety, animal welfare, consumer and environmental protection, which are considered world-wide strict, are maintained but not weakened. Of these, GMO legislation is of paramount importance to our country - a number of people have already talked about it today. Maintaining the GMO-free status of Hungary should be a priority in the negotiations. We can only adopt a final agreement text that certainly does not compromise the moratoriums, the so-called GMO package and other EU GMO rules. The European Commission has promised that EU legislation on GMOs and animal health and food safety regulations will remain unchanged, but it also needs to be ensured that the agreement does not hinder the development of EU policies. It is reassuring that, during the negotiations that have taken place so far, that is, during the Commission's discussions, the government has constantly stressed that the EU GMO regime cannot be broken down by the Free Trade Agreement and that it is an important priority for Hungary to preserve the GMO-free status of domestic agriculture. I would also ask the Government, on behalf of my Fraction, to continue to ask the European Commission regularly to continue negotiations with the United States in our interest. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the workflow is silent, the media's stimuli are not reached by the Hungarian government's efforts to reach the agreement, but I would like to highlight a few things that have been achieved in consultations with the European Commission. The negotiating mandate given to the European Commission states clearly, inter alia, that EU and national legislation protecting human life, health, animal health and animal welfare and the environment, food safety and the interests of consumers should not be the subject of a compromise, and that the free trade agreement should not lead to their relaxation. Together with other EU Member States, we have succeeded in excluding audiovisual services from TTIP negotiations. We have also set the expectation that the negotiation of public services should not lead to an outcome that would undermine the government's regulatory powers in any way. With regard to the agricultural basic products already mentioned, we have indicated that we can only see a partial, quantitatively limited market opening. We have also indicated that we are strengthening the camp of countries that would exclude specific rules for investor-state dispute resolution from the agreements, or at least take out the areas of agriculture, human, plant and animal health, environment and consumer protection and food safety. There is sufficient attention to ensure that the resulting outcome is consistent with the government's public policy objectives and that European and national standards and regulatory powers on public services, environmental protection, food safety are in no way impaired. The fact that the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States will require the consent of the Hungarian Government and the ratification of the Hungarian Parliament will also guarantee the maintenance of the GMO exemption of Hungarian agriculture, which is enshrined in the Basic Law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Mikola István for two minutes.
u2015-02-26-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question of impact assessments has been mentioned several times. We know of two impact studies, which have been completed, but they contain rather projected opinions, since there is not enough data - I say to the Member - on which an impact study could be built. We have also consulted professionals, and we have come to the conclusion that an impact assessment of meaningful job creation, growth parameters, if the negotiations are conducted at this rate, can best be envisaged in mid-2016. We have prepared a summary paper for this debate day, which will be supplemented by what has been said here, and, of course, will include the summarised opinions of the consulted professional organisations. Yesterday, the Minister and I agreed that we would send this material to all Members of Parliament within a week or two. I would like to mention that we have reviewed in detail a so-called impact assessment carried out by the European Commission. This is very interesting, because this is more of a projection, but they say that, even if such a free trade agreement comes into being, the effects of such a free trade agreement will not be detected for eight to ten years, and they expect that if this agreement goes well, then, after eight to ten years, there will be an increase of 0.27-0.48 per cent of GDP, and that the export of services together will increase by 16 to 28 per cent for the United States and the European Union. The Hungarian so-called impact assessment commissioned by the Hungarian government was mentioned in November 2013 - although this is written on it, but this is also more of a projected calculation. I would like to mention some of the details of this later. We have initiated the resolution of the non-public rating, and we will get it. We will also contribute to this, but it is not possible to expect that such projected figures will provide certainty about the effects of the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement, even if this really goes well. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-26-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-02-26-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Listening to the debate, one has a sense of absence on some issues. Let me first share these feelings of absence with you, in case the government can correct these issues later in the debate. One is that, as opposition representatives, watching Fidesz and government contributions seemed to me as though these attitudes did not overlap in some places, and it is also apparent that the government's position has changed over the last few weeks, because at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, attended by Secretary István Mikola, the government supported this free trade agreement with much greater intensity, and even less concerns. In the current debate, this opinion is more balanced and I think that this is more appropriate. In English: it would be worth it if it were clear where the positions of the government and the Fidesz majority group differ, if at all from each other, and how these questions overlap. The other, and this is much more important, is that it is not clear what the position of the Hungarian Government is, in particular, what issues are considered to be particularly sensitive topics, what are the issues that the Hungarian Government uses its veto right if it does not comply with, so it introduces this proposal to the Hungarian Parliament without supporting Parliament, what are the minimum conditions on this issue. [[14.00]] And the government has not predicted what these national interests are, which can be heard so many times in this debate. He also hit my ear for a moment, what András Tállai said, because he went all the way to the point that the studies did not indicate a negative effect. What is shocking to me is that what I have read in the report prepared by the government, which was discussed by the government in November 2013, for example, their own study says in particular: the expansion of Hungarian SMEs in North America is not expected to be expected to a significant extent, which has economic and cultural reasons. András Tállai talked about the opportunities of SMEs in Hungary, which predicted that there are huge opportunities for the Hungarian SME sector. Perhaps Mr Tallai should also read his own materials. So many examples could be set, but perhaps this trade agreement is a smaller opportunity for the SME sector. The other thing that I wanted to say, and I was preceded by Secretary Mikola, is that there is no impact assessment here. That's not true, there are impact assessments. I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last November to give us these impact assessments. Instead of the impact assessment, this government report was sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the grounds that these different impact assessments are secret. By the way, the global economy department of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Corvinus University prepared these impact studies. For example, this debate could have been greatly supported by the 20 studies carried out in this context, I would add, from EU funding. So it is completely incomprehensible why our representatives in Hungary or in the European Union cannot obtain this for several months, because perhaps we could or could have been more professionally specific in the debate. In view of all this and listening to the debate, allow me to propose a different approach from a few speakers on my part, because, as István Mikola said, and I referred to this earlier, we are in a negotiating phase, and indeed these impact assessments cannot accurately quantify the potential expected effects. Not the positive, not the negative, because we're too far from the end. I therefore believe that what Mr Secretary said is perfectly correct and correct. Therefore, I would suggest a cautious, calm and pragmatic approach, which always takes Hungarian interests into account, our own interests. I mean, it's trade, it's economic relations. That is why I too find it exaggeration to compare this convention to a religious war or some kind of civilization issue. I think we are talking about hard economic and commercial interests that can determine the European Union, its countries and, of course, Hungary's national economy interests or the interests of consumers, the people who live here in the long term. It is therefore logical to talk about advantages and disadvantages and taking them into account. It is therefore the position of the MSZP, as has been said several times, but it is perhaps worth repeating that we do not reject this agreement in advance, just as we do not support this agreement in advance. After all, we do not have enough information to make it so clear whether this is beneficial or detrimental to Hungary. We consider this to be a chance, an opportunity for Hungary, for the European Union, but also a threat to the Hungarian economy, to the Hungarian national interest. Therefore, caution, complacency, and pragmatism are certainly appropriate. It is also clear, as was rightly said in the debate, that this is a far-reaching agreement. But what I saw was that even in government speeches or in speeches, two things got a little blurry. When the benefits have been discussed by many, it may be worth stressing that these benefits can vary in terms of benefits for different scenarios, and the extent of the benefits may vary for Hungary. There is a breakdown of customs rules, this is the minimum programme, and there is a breakdown of non-tariff rules, which means full liberalisation on other issues. What the government has talked about is in the second category, i.e. in the case of full liberalisation, these benefits can be interpreted. If, so to speak, only customs rules are broken down, these benefits may also be lower and less effective for Hungary. What I have seen and read so far is a study, and speaking with experts at this stage of the negotiations, you can see that Hungary will not be among the biggest winners if this agreement is reached. The figures which, once again, can be quantified in the current negotiation phase in the case of full liberalisation, the small one must, of course, be pleased, but do not represent an ever-shaking step forward. Especially when we think in a ten-year perspective, what every study, every analyst describes is that this is roughly the time span within which, if we prepare well, these benefits can be achieved. On the other hand, we have a lot to lose if we do not prepare for the final outcome of this agreement. Therefore, at least because of the protocol and what Mr Secretary of State has said, that at least they will complement the information given in this debate with the various materials, let me say that there are sensitive areas, just really taxative. Based on the analysis, the production of bioethanol in Hungary is a sensitive area, because it is cheaper in the USA, so it is certainly a challenge for Hungarian producers, so it is worth adding it to this category. The electronics industry is a sensitive area, because if this market is opened, the more competitive, advanced American products can shrink the electronics industry in Hungary, which is not, to say the least, upward. Then the emergence of US companies on European markets will bring serious competition, not only for EU companies but also for Hungarian companies, and this could also pose a serious threat to Hungarian companies in the European Union market. Then a number of people told me that my colleague Zsolt Legény spoke about it long and correctly, GMO regulation is a fundamental, yes/no type of situation for the Hungarian government. If the GMO is included in this agreement, the Hungarian Government cannot support this agreement. In addition, besides GMOs, there are other sensitive products in the field of agriculture, as a restrictive effect can also reach Hungarian producers in the field of cereals, meats or even sweet corn. So it is worth keeping track of these issues among sensitive areas and fighting very hard against the disadvantage of Hungarian producers in this area. And in the same way, what has already been said by many, these so-called investment protection agreements, the settlement of disputes; for Hungary this can also have serious disadvantages. Then, of course, there are the positives that have been mentioned in recent years, the increase in foreign trade turnover, modest GDP growth, 20-25-30 thousand new jobs in ten years, road vehicle manufacturing, chemical industry, pharmaceutical industry. But here, the growth is 0.2 percent, and the pharmaceutical industry's analysis indicates a 0.04 percent increase. Investment in Hungary may also increase slightly in the case of capital investments, although this is still an option for all US companies today. Therefore, we say that these advantages and disadvantages should be monitored continuously during the negotiations - this, I think, is what the government is doing in the negotiations - and that, taking these into account, we will have to submit to the Hungarian Parliament a proposal on whether the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament support this. Therefore, as a small conclusion, I can say that the MSZP fraction will support this agreement under conditions. I was trying to talk about the conditions, which are quite tough conditions, and they are rather meaty conditions for the Hungarian economy. Therefore, they need to be analyzed wisely and with great care. But we don't think it's right to start ab, to reject negotiations in the first place. We think it is right for the Hungarian government to sit at the table where we can enforce the Hungarian interest. Because, in the end, there may be an agreement that is in no way favourable to Hungary in any field, and that is why we cannot accept it, and that is why we are missing opportunities. For this reason, I do not think it is right to treat this debate, either on the part of LMP or Jobbik, only as a kind of political debate. I think we need less ideology and more pragmatism here. And there is indeed the truth that this is a national issue, a national issue in which the establishment of a national consensus in politics and society is required to make good use of it in the next ten years. So the first is that you consider this to be eligible under the MSZP conditions. [[14.10]] The second - I would also like to say this to the Secretary of State, which I have already said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs - is that the MSZP faction supports participation in the negotiations, encourages the government to strongly represent the interests of Hungarian farmers, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian national interests, but we also expect that if it turns out that these interests are not enforceable, it should also have the courage to put these issues on the table and, where appropriate, to change the current position. The other is that we would ask the government to establish national interests. I'm pretty sure this government doesn't know what kind of preparatory material it might be in, but it would be nice for everyone to see this. The Secretary of State spoke about socialisation, so I say that it is worth doing socialization in this area too, because these are the most exciting questions about our national interests. The other or third is to say that it is necessary to clarify the conditions that, if not met, the Hungarian Government does not support this agreement, because it is the minimum that is important for our negotiating partners and the country to see. The fourth is transparency, openness - all Members have spoken about this. I would suggest to the Secretary of State that you rush into making this data and information available to the public a little bit, because then you can be free of many criticisms. The fifth is that, in order to find allies for Hungarian interests, it is necessary to see who of the EU Member States has problems similar to those of the Hungarian government or Hungary. The sixth, and I would suggest this, a number of Fidesz Members welcomed the debate here in Parliament, the fact that Parliament will decide on it, and what a fantastic thing it is, but let's face it: the decision within Parliament means nothing but that the Fidesz faction supports or does not support the government's initiative, so I would suggest to the government that it seek a broader political consensus on this decision, because it does not mean much if the Fidesz fraction supports it. The Fidesz fraction has already supported all kinds of things, so in this sense it is not a great guarantee that any social or broader political support is behind the government's proposal. [[Dr. András Schiffer: At least the MSZP!]] And the seventh... For example, yes, as my fellow Member András Schiffer says, there are pragmatic parties, there are parties that do not always make a useless ideological issue out of everything, and they are able to say that on certain issues cooperation with the government may be in the national interest, and that there is no need to take a wrong, class-fighter position on this issue. [[Interjection and disclosure from Jobbik's ranks.]] We will also have that debate, my honourable right-hand colleague, and for now this LMP-right-wing coalition will certainly look good, just so that the LMP does not end up representing Russian interests, just as Jobbik does in each of its speeches. At the end, the seventh, which is perhaps the most important question, is whether the government should prepare now or prepare an action plan to prepare, in cooperation with economic operators, for positive effects, so that we can get as much out of it as possible, and also for potential negative effects, i.e. threats, because this is certainly an important issue now, not only when this initiative comes into force where appropriate. Of course, at the end of the day, you have two questions or concerns, so I would put it this way. The reason why I advocate foreign policy is that every time we talk about these issues, because a government that is isolated from foreign policy is less able to represent these national interests, it is more difficult to find allies to represent the Hungarian interest. That is why I believe it is important for diplomacy and the Prime Minister to change foreign policy directions so far, if necessary, with a new foreign minister, and to start the cooperation that is necessary to bring about a useful and good agreement from the point of view of the Hungarian national economy. And if such an agreement is not reached, then have the courage, in many cases, of the very brave Hungarian government in words, to dare say no to this agreement. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-26-90	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Bánki Erik, Member Fidesz.
u2015-02-26-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The optimist sees an opportunity in every emergency, the pessimist sees danger in every possibility. If we quote Churchill's words, then I think that this legendary saying can be perfectly pictured for today's parliamentary debate, because clearly, the parliamentary parties are also in this spirit of this very important initiative. It is very important that we can debate such an issue in the Hungarian Parliament, because, as has already been recorded in the speeches before me in recognition of both the opposition and the government side, this is an extremely important agreement that is being drawn up between the European Union and the United States. This is a free trade agreement that, if adopted in such a way as to bring benefits to the European Union and to Hungary within it, which makes sense only if such a framework is outlined by the end of the agreement - which can take advantage of the world's most important system of relations, since we must not forget that transatlantic relations give close to half of the world's GDP, 46.7 percent, and traffic and trade closes to USD 1000 billion annually, so that Hungary should not miss such an opportunity. I think that the government itself would not argue that we should look at the conditions of connection, participation in this agreement, if it were not a realistic chance for Hungary to come out of this well, usefully and effectively; if the Hungarian economy were not in the state in which it is today, that it has known about the EU average for growth for nearly double years, and that it means sustainable economic growth in the next period, which means that not only will Hungarian public finances continue to increase their revenues year after year, but that the players in the Hungarian market will be strengthened, continuously strengthened, and the result of this continuing strengthening is that our competitiveness will also improve at international competition level. This is why it is very important and the government's decision to allow 60 percent of EU funds to be used only to increase competitiveness in the next seven-year cycle was very wise, because with these EU funds, players in the Hungarian economy can participate even more effectively in such an international trade system. Let us see what concrete benefits Hungary can have from this agreement. It has also been said by the government and Tibor Navracsics mentioned in his speech that not only will GDP growth and competitiveness improve at EU level, but Hungary can also win this agreement - it is important to state and it is important to draw attention to the fact that it is not in the short term. Therefore, no one expects that if these negotiations are successful and this cooperation agreement, this free trade agreement, is adopted, obviously under conditions that would benefit Hungarian economic operators, to have a positive impact within a year or two, but in the medium to long term, Hungary can expect a growth of 15-20 percent in turnover in the medium to long term, and although, as Attila Mesterházy said, it is unlikely that players in the Hungarian economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, will be able to open up sites or shops in the United States and thus benefit from this cooperation opportunity, there is obviously an indirect opportunity for the Hungarian SME sector to benefit from such a framework agreement, a free trade agreement, with growth and profit growth, for example in the automotive industry or machinery industry, or through the chemical industry. Obviously, there are sensitive areas, and this has also been highlighted by the Government and my fellow members of the Government. It is not possible to go without saying that the areas that are important to Hungary - food industry, agriculture, chemical industry or the pharmaceutical industry - are bad. This cooperation agreement cannot be adopted under conditions that would put domestic businesses in a bad position. Obviously, I will also have the opportunity here in Parliament, and every party in Parliament will also have the opportunity to say that before the adoption, before we all agree to this free trade agreement, each party will be able to repeat its opinion, and I hope that a consensus-based decision can be made in the Hungarian Parliament, which will be able to set out all the important issues for the adoption of this vital agreement that can bring great benefits to the Hungarian economy in the long term. I believe that the government is sufficiently prepared to conduct these negotiations as effectively as possible, and I think that the Prime Minister's person is a guarantee that Hungary will not accept an agreement in the European Council that could be detrimental to Hungarian businesses or Hungarian citizens, so I think that these fears are not justified. I would like to conclude with a very important quote that, if my colleagues have expected some kind of sporting quote from me to end, you will ruin a hundred percent of the shots you do not even try. That's what Wayne Gretzky, the world's greatest hockey player ever said. So I think it is definitely worth running into this area, and with a good set of negotiations, prepared negotiators, we can come out of this very important transatlantic agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-02-26-92	Thank you very much, Congressman Bánki. The next announced speaker was Mr Zoltán Magyar Jobbikós.
u2015-02-26-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to begin by thanking the civil society organisations who have provided it to us. At least they took the trouble and looked into this future convention, examined its effects, and presented us with an absolute comprehensive and transparent, understandable material. It was important for me to mention this because, from the pro-government side, there was this crappy excuse that there were no studies on this agreement, because we wouldn't support it, so why the hell would Jobbik want to know. I find that quite amazing, and I refuse. We should be familiar with these background studies and their effects, the supposed effects of this convention on the future, so that we can give a proper picture of it and that we can at all convince you of the terrible consequences of this convention. GMO has been mentioned a lot, so I would just like to say very briefly about it from an approach that has not yet been mentioned today. If we accept the argument that the government side is doing that it will be able to maintain our GMO-free status even after signing such a convention, I stress that I do not believe in this position, and I think that sooner or later Brussels or this convention will override this current situation; but if I accept it, it will make the direction that we have supposedly set here in the Hungarian Parliament, and that we should also slowly squeeze out of our meat products and try to free these products from GMOs as much as possible. For example, we know that today - and we usually mention the soy here - we feed ourselves, Hungarians and Hungarians with GMO soy in a proportion of over 90 percent, and the direction that might involve new protein crops and, with their support, try to squeeze out GMOs, GMO soy, this direction is absolutely impossible, so this can affect the issue of GMOs in this way. I also find it amazing that we will achieve the outcome through secret negotiations. From the government side, it has been said here that our interests will be represented through Brussels in a mediated form. This is, I believe, unacceptable in the first place, especially after we know that even you will not necessarily know the details, so it will be hard enough for you to verify whether this certain mediated representation of interest is at all on the part of Brussels, or if we will only see what remains of a good-looking lunch in this Convention. The transparency that Brussels is constantly expressing and calling to account in the Member States does not apply to this convention, which also makes it very suspicious. As regards food safety, it has already been said today that almost half of the food flows from the US to us are currently experiencing food quality controls in the European Union, and in this way a significant part of the US products can be kept away from the countries of the European Union. Perhaps this is not a coincidence, so it is not that we have imposed some kind of protective duty on these products, but that the rules on food quality in the US are quite simply so much more looser, which are still unacceptable here, thank God, in the European Union. We are also concerned about this in the future, and we are also protecting it when this Convention is adopted, and we have not been given any guarantees that we will be able to retain the special protection in this regard. I would also like to mention the issue of exports, which will decrease significantly within the European Union, according to your own admission. This can be particularly tragic for our country, as 77 percent of our export production is directed to the European Union. We would also like to see impact assessments of how this will affect Hungary in particular. These were my most important concerns in this way, in the absence of time. I just wanted to mention these and, of course, we hold Jobbik's position that this convention is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, on behalf of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased to say to my fellow Members that there is a wish programme on all public channels, so I think everything is absolutely all right. Well, on the basis of what has been said so far, I have to say that there must have been some kind of feeling that we were having a debate about something that we barely know anything about. Few and little were extremely uncertain, but the little we have tried to share here was good for one thing. The views and aspects that are decisively no longer political have developed, but are of an ideological nature in some places. Is that a problem? I think it's okay. It is right that political parties also represent a kind of ideology. And I think that this ideology should be represented consistently. I must say, Mr Schiffer does not need my protection at all, but I have heard him very well when he said not a market economy but capitalism. Well, let's call it what we have. You don't have to call it that, because then it'll be like popular democracy. To be clear, capitalism has a lot of forms, and these forms cannot be expressed in any other way than by these common calling words. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Balczó said that we should look at whose interests it is. And indeed, a very important question. Are you interested in this, which will be included in this Treaty, in the interests of the European Union and, in particular, of Hungary? That's the basic question. All the rest of it's gonna come up with something else. Well, I think that the initiative to conclude such a contract is not an accident on the part of the United States. The United States has a sort of, I must say, post-defense battle throughout the world today. The kind of overpower that appeared after World War II has come before very strong challengers in recent times. China, we all know, has become challenging with a rising economy. It is also clear that this is why the United States needs certain partners to cooperate with. That is why the Asian treaty was concluded, and I am convinced that it was sooner than it was with the European Union. Well, are we interested in a contract like this? Because that's the basic question. It all depends on whether or not there will be any warranty conditions. Guarantee conditions that guarantee that Hungarian interests that are in agriculture on the one hand and in the world of small and medium-sized enterprises on the other hand, but not least in terms of investment, can remain. The question is whether this is possible is guaranteed in a contract. Of course, only if the Treaty is right in this regard, Mr Secretary of State, we are involved in all the work where we can even hear our voices. But something needs to be seen. These negotiations are not on a level playing field here, because they are not equal partners that continue this negotiation. The United States is overpowering the European Union economically, politically and militaryly. All the more so, because there is no single European Union. Well, there is a conglomerate, some of which has common money. There's a part that doesn't have much to do with common money. There is a part that has a highly developed, strong economy and a competitive economy; and there is a part of this European Union that is still far from that. This contract must also be able to equalise these differences. It's an incredibly difficult task. I don't envy negotiating partners. It's hard, but it's not completely impossible. However, there are some issues where I do not see what the solution is, how they can be bridged. A completely different cultural circle is one and another, despite the fact that, as much as it comes from Europe, there is now a very different thinking, different in the economy, different in trade, different in politics. [[14.30]] These are very difficult to bridge. Hungarian agriculture - we all know we have already talked about this - is in a very difficult situation. Hungarian agriculture should make such a big gap that it is almost impossible to work out within the European Union. After all, those countries that have enjoyed the support system that we can only enjoy after 2004 for a long, long time have taken advantage of us. But there is also an advantage for farmers in the United States, because the United States does not have such a support system as we do, which is relatively transparent, predictable, but a much more metaphorical, but at the same time much larger, support. How will this be balanced? I think this is not an easy task. All of this, I believe, shows that there must be long and difficult negotiations. The point is, we took an important step today. That he even came before the House today, and that this could be discussed before the House, and that during the debate the various views could be clashed, I consider this to be a great step forward, despite the fact that this would, of course, be normal. This is what should appear as an exercise. But it's not. Consequently, it should be sought to repeat the debate and to come before us at the stage of the treaty at which the decisive phase is to take place, in any event before signing. I deeply agree that the signature will have to be approved in this House. We must not give up on this, it is absolutely necessary. By integrating all these guarantee elements, I believe it is possible to achieve a good result, but today it is completely foggy and vague things that start to say that this will go by this percentage, and it will go by that percentage, and then it will grow so much, and then it will grow as much. The Secretary of State is quite right to say that a 10- to 15-year perspective should be considered when some results actually appear. So what we're waiting to do is we're going to say these numbers now, that's impossible. I propose and ask the government that, in the coming time, when there are new information and new opportunities, it is brave to bring it back to the House, let us discuss it, because this will be a fundamental question for the whole nation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-26-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-02-26-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At least in the context of such a high-weight agreement, we should think about the rules governing our world, what leads to us living in a series of crises and not being able to solve them, they are constantly deepening. I might mention the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the ecological crisis, the value crisis, the moral crisis, and I'm sure we could find something else. The fact is that the world is split in two, and also the countries, less and less rich and more poor. The global world economy order, free trade agreements and the expansion of multinational companies have an important role to play in all of this. As an example, we can measure the possible consequences of the planned free trade agreements with the outcome of the WTO. Although the organisation itself was set up to combat poverty, promote full employment and promote global justice, the forced abolition of trade defence duties did not ultimately lead to the achievement of these objectives, and on the contrary, the difference between poor and rich countries has increased. In the case of the forthcoming US-EU Free Trade Convention, the supporters of the Convention claim that this is one of the tools to boost economic growth, increase GDP, create more jobs and ultimately benefit people. It has been mentioned that TTIP will result in an increase in GDP of 0.2 to 0.5 per cent. Some scenarios predict a GDP growth of 0.27% for the EU, but all for a remote period of a decade and a half. GDP growth, even if it were 1 per cent, is not 0.27 per cent, would not mean too much, as we know that growth in GDP is also caused by increasing pollution, because it has to be solved, or if a country is threatened by disaster, because it also needs to be restored; it is all a factor that increases GDP. But we also know that there are problems with distribution, because most of the profits usually go to the rich. Opponents of the Convention claim that this is good for stronger economies, especially for multinationals, and weaker economies lose. We also know that the aim of these conventions is to completely remove barriers to trade, market and profit. Hungary is in any event facing serious threats in terms of agricultural production, agricultural market and food safety. The government says that we will insist on terms, such as GMOs. The supporters of the Convention also say that it will do us good because it will improve our competitiveness, because free trade requires and even forces to improve conditions of competitiveness. I would like to talk a little bit about this, about the negative social and environmental consequences of improving competitiveness. It's time we didn't look at this as taboo. Of course, it is possible to say what is wrong with improving competitiveness, because according to official answers, competition and improving competitiveness are drivers of economic growth. But we have to ask what price we're paying for this. Competitiveness has a wide range of interpretations, including company, sector or country's competitiveness. I am talking about corporate competitiveness, what free market competition forces. Corporate competitiveness depends on the ability of a particular company to meet demand in a profitable way. The profitability depends on how the price of the product is related to its cost of production. What does that mean? The fact that cutting the cost of setting the price is a matter of vital importance. How can these costs be cut off? Direct costs can be reduced through efficiency of labour and resource use and cheap resources, such as low energy prices, indirect ones with less stringent environmental and social standards and low levels of withdrawal. This is what the TTIP aims to achieve regulatory coherence and the downward regulatory spiral. Therefore, when referring to low consumer prices, consumer interests and the advantages of competition, they do not talk about the indirect costs that are paid to society for a favourable price. For the sake of competition, the investor is looking for a country with cheap natural resources, cheap labour, low taxes and contributions. In addition, there is a low level of expectation of the environment and the provision of society. If we're not a country like this, we're not a target area. If we are such a suitable country, we need to increase labour efficiency if we are to remain competitive. Labour efficiency means that fewer workers can achieve higher performance for less wages in less time. In other words, the work efficiency resulting from competition is driving me out of employment, leading not to more, but to fewer, employees. This is how the figures come out in the various independent studies, which will estimate hundreds of thousands of jobs lost. If we want to remain competitive, the state must reduce withdrawals, such as taxes, contributions, both for the company and for the workers. Reduced public revenues are thinning the social network and tearing it up in some places. We want smart growth, says the EU strategy, but there is less revenue for education. We also need to reduce the strict environmental requirements; we see the complete dismantling of the institutional system of the environment, because if not, there are just enough countries in the world that are willing to sacrifice their environmental integrity. However, we still suffer losses, because we live on a planet together, and even if we hope for the benefits we have, everyone will pay for the consequences. Thank you for your attention. [[14.40]]
u2015-02-26-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The May Other is the parliamentary group of Politics which gave two minutes of its timeframe to MEP Jávor Benedek. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you to the LMP for the time frame that has been granted. Dear Parliament, In the debate, Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, my fellow Member of the European Parliament, had a comment that there is no majority of this convention in the European Parliament. Exceptionally, this is an issue in which I fully agree with my Fidesz fellow Member. There is indeed no majority of this convention in Europe, in the European Parliament, and this is not a coincidence; there is a reason for this. The reason is that the majority of MEPs are convinced that this convention carries too many risks, while its projected benefits are extremely questionable, and not for European citizens, but for the European and US large enterprise sectors. Concerns cover many areas, most of which in today's debate have already been covered by my fellow Members: environmental legislation that is stronger in Europe than in the United States; the European common agricultural policy; the issue of GMO exemption; animal and plant health; the electronics industry, bioethanol, many things. If all that you have said here today as an endangered area is indeed removed from the scope of the Convention, the question arises as to what remains in this agreement, whether there is any point in dealing with it. However, I would like to deal with two issues which have not yet been discussed in this debate. One is the European chemical policy. The European chemical policy in the mid-2000s fundamentally differs from American chemical policy in its logic, its approach is based on the precautionary principle, and it says that substances which are at risk of environmental or health damage cannot be placed on the market, and that they must be demonstrated that they are not harmful. Everything in America can be brought to the market that has not been fully proven to be harmful to the environment or to health. This is a substantial difference between the two chemical policies. If this convention is concluded, the entire European chemical policy will be put at risk, which will raise the question for plant protection products, food additives, various chemical products. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] whether we will not be forced to release products, substances that are banned on the European market [[The president's ringing again.]] currently authorised in the EU, but in the United States...
u2015-02-26-100	Thank you very much, Congressman...
u2015-02-26-101	Mr. President, I've had a minute on my own timeline, and I've got two minutes on time from the LMP for this, so I'd like to ask you to give me the rest of my 30 seconds...
u2015-02-26-102	Well, here you go. Go ahead, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-103	...let me take advantage of it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I would like to mention one more aspect. A lot of people here have been talking about the long-term. In the long term, the regulatory consultation obligation could slow down and halt the development of European environmental law much faster than the US due to the risk of damages arising from the agreement and the ISDS dispute resolution procedure. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that if we had concluded this agreement 25 years ago, European environmental law development would have been practically stuck at the 1980s level, and could only have developed with the American. Where would Europe be today, where would Hungary be today? Thank you for the floor.
u2015-02-26-104	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, MEP, for two minutes.
u2015-02-26-105	[[His mic's not working.]] Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I want to talk to you about...
u2015-02-26-106	I'm sorry, we're gonna need some loudspeaker. [[For portable microphones:]] We're starting the clock now. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-26-107	Thank you for the floor. So I don't understand what you don't understand about Jobbik and LMP at the current stage of knowledge saying that this should not be concluded. However, these negotiations are not at the beginning. In February 2013, I am not even talking about the precedents; this group of experts has already made this proposal; it has already debated this at the beginning of the European Parliament in July, so obviously this is not a new matter for us, and we can also see to what level the negotiations have reached. And I have to... a metaphor isn't always good, but I'm trying to make sense of our perception. If we see a ship going in the wrong direction, probably full of storms, but it may be tornado-trapped waters, and the port where it wants to anchor, full of reefs, then we need to deal with the efficiency of the engines, whether the food will be comfortable, what the service will be like, these details are no longer relevant to us, and this ship should not be boarded. Yet it is said that why we want to know more details. We'd like the radar room not to be locked on this ship, it could be opened, and maybe looking in there who can't see it, they'd be able to predict that you're careful, we can see what dangerous waters we want to go to. So, in our view, on the basis of fundamental interests, this risk is so great that, regardless of the further details, it should not be involved. I know that the Secretary of State envys the German partners where Parliament stands behind them, and they obviously know what their global interests are, because they have them and what they don't want. But for us in this ship, you can't help this progress in Engineering. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-02-26-108	Thank you very much. Other pre-notified speeches will be followed, first by Mr János Pócs Fideszes.
u2015-02-26-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As the speakers before me have said, these negotiations have not just begun, we are talking about pre-decision negotiations, and as Secretary of State Mikola said, how can we make a decision if we are even closed to negotiations? I believe and believe that Members of Parliament who believe that there are matters that are not even worthy of negotiation, without getting to know the details and giving the representatives of the government confidence, have suffered a deficit in their perception of democracy. I believe this case is worthy of trial. I believe that the agreement should rise above the daily policy after a good negotiation, whose impact goes beyond economic benefits, can strengthen partners, countries emerging from economic competition, and Hungary as well. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to know and trust that Hungary has nothing to fear from fair competition in the market. The bulk of our external trade is complicated on equal terms with the EU Member States and the EU's single internal market today. In the last four years, trade in goods in EU countries has shown a surplus of EUR 9-10 billion. In addition, there was a significant Hungarian activity on the US market, which is also open to international comparison, i.e. we can be proud that Hungarian producers, Hungarian enterprises, are also competitive in demanding markets. The initiative can be of historical importance, which can bring significant benefits to the open, foreign economy-oriented Hungarian economy, but we cannot rush the negotiations. On the Hungarian side, however, we are interested in creating a balanced and ambitious agreement that improves the party's market access parameters, deepens the cooperation of transatlantic regulation, and creates rules that contribute to economic growth, job creation in Europe, and we believe that Hungary should play its part in its positive effects, as all countries should play their part in the commitment. Our current agricultural trade traffic with the US plays a marginal role in terms of foreign trade in the Hungarian food economy. The US could be one of the most unused food economic target markets in Hungary. The impact assessments published so far on free trade agreements between the EU and the US hope a significant increase in GDP for both parties. [[14.50]] During the negotiations, as all speakers pointed out, it is a priority to maintain Hungary's GMO-free status and to ensure that the agreement does not weaken the standards of animal, plant health regulation, food safety and animal welfare in any way. It is important that the specific wording of the yet unknown draft does not in any way refer to GMOs or explicitly exclude them from the agreement. We can only accept a text that certainly does not compromise the moratoriums and other GMO rules. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear to everyone that the position of the Hungarian government is known to all parties: the issue of our GMO exemption cannot be negotiated. During the negotiations, the Hungarian Government and its representatives constantly stressed that the EU's GMO regime should not be undermined by the Free Trade Convention and that Hungary's priority is to preserve the GMO-free nature of our agriculture. We therefore regularly call on the European Commission to continue negotiations with the US with this in mind. With regard to products that are of interest to Hungary - sweet corn, beef, pigmeat, poultry, eggs, tobacco, sugar, bioethanol, textile products - it is essential to maintain existing tariff quotas for imports from the USA. Ladies and gentlemen, Just as Mrs Pelczné Dr. Ildikó Gáll convinced us and, in my opinion, convinced us all, the EU consistently and rigorously advocates full recognition of the protection of agricultural products with geographical indications at EU level by the US. During the transatlantic negotiations, the negotiating committee has been continuously and continuously consulted with the actors of the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of these arguments and of these facts, please support the establishment of the agreement. We can only accept a balanced, ambitious agreement in which Hungarian interest cannot be weakened in any way. The representatives of the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Government have already and are hereby testifying that they are negotiating in the spirit of this evidence. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The display already indicates that the Christian Democratic People's Party Group has handed over the remaining timeframe to the Fidesz Group. Next up on behalf of the MSZP, Congressman László Kiss in 57 seconds.
u2015-02-26-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If it wasn't for this debate today, we couldn't have known the Hungarian government's clear position, so it's probably a good thing that we're talking about it now. Allow me a few sentences. One very important thing is that the MSZP does not support an agreement that undermines workers' rights and we expect the government to involve the Hungarian trade unions in these negotiations when it develops its position. MSZP does not support the dumping of genetically modified foods in Hungarian agriculture, we do not want these foods to flood the Hungarian market, nor do we support the softening of environmental and consumer protection rules. If such an agreement is reached, it is good that it fails, then the MSZP will not support it. Make it clear what the government's position is. And, of course, Hungarians have nothing to fear from fair competition in the market, you say, but interestingly, this is no longer your position with regard to the trafikmutty, the farmhouse or the CBA subsidies. How interesting. Thank you for listening.
u2015-02-26-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sándor Farkas, Fidesz.
u2015-02-26-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the draft agreement or idea that we discussed here today and discussed and raised arguments and arguments has - and it has been said here today from the mouth of almost every speaker - a very important issue, and that is the issue of agriculture, which I think might have the most impact on the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian countryside and the people living in Hungary. It is therefore very important, in particular, how food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary rules will be approved, on what grounds and on what grounds it will be discussed and subsequently adopted. Allow me to give some thought to what the commoner is interested in, who may not have full information, but who are interested in today's society in the results of this trial. The benefit of the FTA lies not only in the reduction of customs duties, the alignment of the different regulatory systems has a major economic recovery role, including those regulatory systems. Despite the fact that the agreement can bring a global economic advantage to the transatlantic region, there is a great deal of resistance in civilian circles, mostly abroad, to the Free Trade Agreement. In these negative opinions, questions are often raised in relation to food safety, animal and plant health. The public is looking at developments with interest and awareness, and the specific rules of detail are set at the forefront of their protests and their claims. So allow me some examples. For example, in the United States, poultry processors disinfect freshly slaughtered chickens in chlorinated solutions, but this procedure is prohibited in the European Union and chickens treated like this cannot be placed on the market in Europe. The protesting civilians fear that this regulation will change, and instead of trying to improve the quality of chicken meat and reduce the quantity of pathogens that multiply in animals by improving animal welfare and animal health conditions in poultry farms, new chemical food processes may appear. Protests in Germany have already reached such an extent that independent organizations have begun to examine the physiological effects of chlor-disinsulated chicken and the average amount of health-threatening bacteria on undisinsulated chicken. It's a small matter, but it's a very important issue. The other one might be like that. The marketing of meat products from animals treated with growth hormone, which is prohibited in the EU, as is the case with chlorine disinfection, is, however, permitted in the USA. In this case, too, there is a reason for our fear that a more stringent European standard may fall victim to the free trade agreement. It is possible to mention as a third point the growth accelerator Ractopamine, which cannot be used in Europe, but in the USA and Asia. This substance, although less dangerous to the human body than other similar compounds, has so far not been found in animals raised in Europe at all. In the GMO topic, we are already fully united in our domestic position, and I believe that we must continue to observe this very strictly and stick to it in the negotiations. Here, the rules on product designation can also be mentioned in order to maintain the possibility of banning cultivation and improve the regulation. But we do not have to believe that European rules are in all respects stricter than Americans. In the USA, for example, cheese made from raw milk or Kinder eggs should not be placed on the market at present. In economic regulation - we think, and I personally think - the reduction of customs duties is a very serious economic difficulty, and I could almost say that it would create a hopeless situation for those living in agriculture. We therefore consider it important that the documents for the development of this agreement, which are likely to involve business interests, include as much economic regulation, rationality and rationality as possible. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would ask my fellow Members that, when we will not only prepare for this law, but the concrete written material of it will come before us, then we will be able to make a really detailed decision in this regard, we can really take a position on this issue; until then we have only assumptions, but I trust in the government's negotiating capacity and its logical commitment to Hungarian agriculture, that this will be taken into account to the fullest extent in their negotiations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I welcome once again my fellow Members. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2015-02-26-115	Mr President, Dear House, It is worth a little bit of public debate and professional debate about what quotation around the whole free trade agreement is accompanied by a process that has not just begun, not this month's European Union conciliation process. But it is easy to see that half-secret negotiations are taking place in terms of what is being done on Europe, in my approach, against a little European and, in particular, Hungary. Nor is it certain that an excessive suggestion, if the FTA goes through in this way, as set out in the draft, can make the US practically the 29th Member State of the European Union, which may partially interfere with EU legislation without a substantial commitment, and the authorisation and withdrawal of GMOs may, if appropriate, need to be agreed in advance with this relevant, still considered world empire, so the dangers should not be underestimated at all. That is why I am trying to move past the emotional wave that Attila Mesterházy is talking about who represents Russian interests in Parliament. I beg you, their predecessor has done nothing else for more than forty years, and Hungary has paid very hard the price of this, but even the MSZP is way ahead of the government in this case, as the MSZP says that it would only support the possibility of betraying Hungary on conditions, as it is included in this package. Even the MSZP says that it supports it under conditions, and the previous Fidesz speaker basically said that we should support the agreement, because this is the way it offers opportunities for Hungary. So they don't want to support the debate and the consultation, but I hope it was a slip of the tongue, but from the mouth of a fidesz Member, it was said that he was asking for the agreement itself to be supported. I very much hope that only the debate and consultation on this issue can arise in this context. It should also be seen that, as a result of the fact that the GMO as a term does not fall into the free trade agreement, so it does not need to be described, the danger may still be there, and it can be huge and amazingly there, on the road that, for example, the so-called investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, ISDS, could be smuggled in, since the Canadian agreement was the last moment when it was popped out. A very wide-ranging EU public opinion poll has also been carried out involving 150,000 samples that 97 percent opposed the insanity in which multi-companies could sue governments if their genetically modified filth was to be restricted by the given government in some way. But at the moment, as planned, a free trade agreement with the US could now arise that a similar element or set of elements, similar to an investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, is being smuggled at the last minute, and how can this be practically passed through the system. At the moment, we see that a large part of the harmonisation process is conducted by specifically bilateral trade committees on food safety, not directly concerned. Let us not be in the illusion that the Government of Hungary may have a serious say in what agreement will be signed, let us say, with the United States of America. Hungary needs to lay very strict limits on the cases in which it is completely and categorically closed from this whole madness, and the government does not do so because the pro-government representative stands up and says that we should support, support, support the agreement, a good part of which was still dark. So I'm telling you, the amazing situation is that the MSZP has passed from the right. When the Secretary of State Tállai points out that there is no real possibility to report disadvantages here, there is also a very high risk that Hungary's relative GMO-free status, which now exists on paper, but I would no longer say so categorically that Hungary is GMO-free - we could lose it. The risk of this 1 percent is too great for Hungary, because if any of the Fidesz MEPs see that the USA and the possibility of breaking into the US markets for Hungarian farmers is too great, see the other side, this is not a charity service, I beg you. At the moment, more than 40 percent of food product groups coming from the US are caught up in the EU because their quality is inadequate to enter an EU or a humane market, because it contains ingredients or is prepared in ways that a fair national economy does not allow within its borders. If you see the opportunity for Hungarian farmers to break into the US, it means that they will allow the United States of America's food industry trash without restriction within EU borders, which would be treasonable. Therefore, we clearly call on the government not to ratify this convention in the future, nor to negotiate it if these threats persist. When Zsuzsanna Szelényi says that the right-wingers and others make conspiracy theories, it is important to see that Hungary's strategic treasures are expended, its markets bombed, the American-based break-in is not a conspiracy theory at all, it is a conspiracy exercise against which Hungary must act with every means. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I must admit that this US-European Free Trade Agreement reminds me of the Fidesz government's favorite project, the Paks enlargement. I remind you that, according to the government, this is a business of the decade, which brings decades of lasting recovery, from the infant to the old man in Hungary. At the same time, all substantive issues and details are encrypted, preventing the Hungarian people from finding out exactly what exactly makes this business, the business of the century. This is also the case with the TTIP Free Trade Pact.Since 2013, negotiations have been ongoing between bureaucrats and large corporate lobbyists in Brussels, who have not been elected by anyone, with the total exclusion of the public. It is not only the people and the press who are closing the draft, it is not just the European civil society organisations who are closing the door. The elected MEPs and the governments of the Member States can only read into the draft in a secret, closed secret room, so it is prohibited to take notes or take any photos. You don't have to be Lieutenant Columbo to realize there's something really wrong here. In these few minutes, I wouldn't agree that this process is a gross violation of democracy, of popular sovereignty, of the people of the states. Let us now look at what is known, despite the great secrecy, to suspect the effects of the transatlantic pact. The European Commission's only official impact assessment was commissioned from the centre of European policy research. That's how we know, if we believe what we can hope for from this contract. Well, not much, considering that we need to rethink and re-learn all the regulations of the entire social and economic sector. If we eliminate all the barriers to trade, it predicts a slightly less than half-percent increase in GDP between the two continents, but not immediately, one and a half decades after the signing of the convention. But even so, it is not a rosy picture, if the wildest scenario is not realized, if, for example, the proposed authorisation of genetically modified foods is removed by pressure from France and Hungary, then we can expect a smaller increase in GDP of 0.27 per cent; I repeat once again, fifteen years after the theoretical entry into force of the Convention and the European Union as a whole, on average. It is already apparent from the logic of free trade that these effects will be uneven in the EU as well. A strong country can benefit from unlimited trade, but less developed Southern and Eastern Member States can profit only slightly. Thus, it is very easy to imagine that Hungary will lose all kinds of changes. Even if we could see some microscopic change or improvement in domestic GDP, there is still much doubt as to how much of this goes to people. We are well aware that there is a very significant duality in the Hungarian economy. The world of multi-business companies producing for the world market is very separate, and the world of domestic small businesses that work for the majority of people. The supply networks are not deep enough and extensive, there is little access between the two sectors in the economic sense. If, therefore, there is an economic expansion due to the impact of TTIP, it will almost certainly focus on multi-companies interested in international free trade. And from this benefit, very little can be seen by the budget and almost nothing by the people. Hungary can therefore move on to Fidesz so dearly idill, we can finally become a large assembly plant, at the pleasure of Viktor Orbán. I repeat, this is an optimistic vision of the impact assessment for the European Commission, which is official and bought for money. Independent research suggests far more gloomy scenarios. [[15.10]] The most well-known and perhaps the most thorough of these analyses comes from the pen of Jeronim Capaldo, researcher at Tufts University in Europe. His forecast envisages a net reduction in GDP and exports, most seriously affecting the North European states, including Germany, the largest trading partner in our country. At the same time, it predicts a reduction in labour incomes and job losses. Over half a million jobs can be said goodbye to TTIP in the European Union. Another important finding in Capaldo's study is that the imbalance between wages and capital incomes will increase as a result of the FTA. A person who makes a living on a salary is more at a disadvantage than he is now compared to those who are rich in capital income. It is also mentioned in the Capaldo analysis that governments' tax revenues will be reduced, so there will be fewer opportunities to remedy injustices and to compensate for market imbalances. Last but not least, financial imbalances will increase. Since 2008, we have known what this means: stock market and banking, recession, maiming entire generations. This is, therefore, a realistic picture of the TTIP Convention, which is so dear to the Fidesz Government, for international corporations and for capital. It may, therefore, bring them a world of opportunity, and members of the corrupt political life with lobbyists can rub their hands, but it will certainly be bad for people, it will be harmful for Europe and it will also be harmful for Hungary. It is time for the Fidesz government to stop speaking in doubles, not to ride on the issue of genetically modified food, my honourable pro-government colleagues - there is a good chance that this will end up out of the document under French pressure - the whole Free Trade Convention is faulty and dangerous. Back to the Paks example, perhaps the business of the century, but certainly not for us, that's for sure. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-26-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Tessely. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The two municipalities of my constituency, Martonvásár and Tordas, have a considerable history in the field of seed research. Over the long decades, considerable experience has been accumulated here in the natural exploitation of the potential of seeds. On the basis of experience, we must say that the diversity, genetic purity, naturality and the best opportunities for health and use of seeds and plants from them could be compromised if we do not pay enough attention in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership to ensure that current European legislation in this area is not relaxed. We Hungarians do not want genetically modified organisms. Our intention is now, quite rightly, enshrined in the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Not only do we Hungarians not ask for these materials, but we also have a number of European comrades who are fighting with us for immunity. Austria, Bulgaria, Greece, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and Poland think alike. Thanks to joint action, we have been successful so far in the European region, as the European Union has finally accepted that nation states are free to decide whether or not to allow artificially genetically modified crops to be grown. In this respect, we should not allow it to be allowed, so I would like to suggest figuratively that we suppress potential bad intentions, that we do not allow them to try to take away the future that is dormant in seeds from us. Ladies and gentlemen, Don't get me wrong, our community supports free trade and basically supports this agreement on a transatlantic trade and investment partnership. We are convinced that both the European Union and Hungary can have a number of advantages with this agreement, but we know that we must be vigilant in order to avoid possible dangers. Trade must be free, but it must not be directed against us, against the interests of Hungarian and European citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-26-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr Sallai R. Benedek has also applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What remains for me is to respond to a few things, and as a conclusion, I should say what I think is clear: this convention is bad for Hungarian people, it is bad for Hungarian society and it is bad for Hungarian natural resources. There is much to discuss, but overall, the ruling party or the MSZP did not say much about facts that would support the fact that this could be good at anything. Congressman Pócs said that a Member who doesn't want to discuss anything is a democracy deficit. You said everything was worth discussing. Please, if I could start talking to you about leaving the third Orbán Cabinet, you'd say I can't give you conditions that you'd accept. I suppose that's true, about the same result. The United States cannot offer Hungarian society something that is good for Hungarian people. The reason why you can't offer it - and this is a left-wing value, and I would like you to represent it from the MSZP - is that if the shoemakers of the former remnants of the Hungarian producers, let us say, in Martfű shoe factory, have to compete with American factories who produce everything in the third country for pennies, then we can only achieve one thing: how we can push down the value of the Hungarian labour force to compete. That's not the point. The aim is to give more and more money and a better livelihood to Hungarian people. The aim is not to be competitive with countries that use natural resources from other countries, other continents, to enrich themselves with colonization, theft, war. We do not want to compete with those who gain their wealth through trade and stewardship, but try to relive the honest Hungarian, honest life that is based on value-making work. Your government, your head of government, has promised this to Hungarian society, and this agreement is completely contrary to that. I was very pleased to hear my fellow Hungarian Member, who quoted it from professional materials, so he saved me a lot of time, which I thank you very much for, and I would have used the same. I would like to remind you that the same organizations have excellent materials about nuclear energy, and I would also like to accept it. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] It would be very, very nice if you would respect that in the same way. Member Erik Bánki said that the instruments of EU funds for competitiveness will be very good in the next period because they prepare the Hungarian economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, to be competitive. You can't prepare him and you can't have a purpose. We have heard from the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office that rural development resources, as well as economic development resources, will go to the SME sector. We promised the Hungarian society and you promised - because the LMP also represented this, in consensus with you - that strengthening the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector is the strategic goal. Each study states that this international agreement can be good for anyone but for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, because it does not want to produce for external economic purposes. This is important because this convention effectively preserves the situation of multinational companies and large companies. It preserves its position vis-à-vis SMEs, its competitive advantage, and it never creates the kind of social justice that is needed in the distribution of incomes, in order to raise society and provide more and more income for Hungarian society, that is to be created. There is no need to seek a broader consensus on this. Mr Attila Mesterházy, when he was here, said that this must be done with a broad consensus. Practically, we have to look at what Hungarian civilians represent. Where are the Hungarian social movements that would like this convention? Where in Europe do we see moves that want to do this? All we see are social movements across Europe who protest against it. We are constantly seeing civil protests and demonstrations against this convention. So, overall, I think that the LMP, for whom the national policy goals that Fidesz has often said are important, to strengthen the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, the Hungarian economy, can only be done if we do not try to compete the Hungarian economy with societies or a country or a world that does not comply with any correct regulations, human rights or anything else. [[15.20]] We don't have to compete. This is the issue of thinking in the nation state. Do we want to trade in Hungary to produce the materials and food needed for Hungarian people, to ensure food security, to create local markets? And if there were a national consensus in this, then the role of political parties would be smaller, because we could say that it is possible to debate ideology, what we would do so in support policy or so in support policy, but at least we should be united in the fact that the influence of the rest of the world on our trade can only be fundamentally bad, can only be bad, and cannot ensure that Hungarian people and Hungarian society can rise to the level to which they should rise. There's been a lot of talk about GMOs. I would not like to repeat any of my fellow Members. In my first two minutes, I quoted that the EU-Canada agreement does not contain GMOs, but it is literally stated that the objective of the Convention is to minimise the negative effects on trade of the legislation on biotechnology products. Reduce negative regulation on trade effects. It's the environment, it's nature conservation, health security and all that. As long as such an agreement exists between the EU and Canada, it will remain here as the sword of Damocles over the head of Hungarian society. I respect very, very much what the Hungarian government says about GMO anti-GMOism in words, but the only way to act in action is to have a strong gender and rejection towards such a convention and initiative. I ask my fellow members of the Government to look at their own election promises, the consistent position of Fidesz on the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian society, and to think about how this convention could serve those promises and the interests of these people. How could it be better? Would it be easier to get the Nike shoes here? What would make it better for the Hungarian people if this agreement were to be concluded? We must produce for the Hungarian market and strengthen the Hungarian economy. I ask the members of the Government, unlike my fellow Member, Mr Farkas, not to go before Parliament. We need to lock this up somewhere so it doesn't come before the House and we don't want to talk about it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-02-26-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the expense of the remaining timeframe, Mr István Happy of the Fidesz Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-123	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I listened to the debate today. Whoever followed us on television must have understood what this convention was all about. I feel that if I had to vote on it today, I would definitely vote no. But it's not because the Jobbik, the LMP or anyone convinced me, it's because we're not seeing clearly today. We're arguing about something that we don't even fully see. I think that we will have to have a really serious debate about this when we see what the Union and the United States are trying to agree on. Today, there are still ideas in some opposition parties about why this will be bad, and there are people who say that this will be good. I think my position is in the middle. I don't see what's good about it today, and I don't see what's bad about it. I'm hoping that a good agreement will be reached, and I'll be able to say yes in the end. But if it is not born in the interests of the Hungarian people, then, of course, I will not say yes. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-26-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Bana. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to respond to the words of my fellow Member, János Pócs, who suggested that the opposition is democratically defiant, because we reject the EU-US Free Trade Agreement at the forefront. Well, based on the information we've received, it's clear that this is what we need to do. But I think that Fidesz should have preferred to support the debate day initiative itself, and then they should have had the right to talk about the possibility that democracy deficit might be something else. However, they did not do so. I would also like to respond to the words of Secretary Mikola, who did not understand why we are curious about background studies. Well, I've read a number of background calculations, and on the basis of these, I appreciate that we are coming out of this agreement economically adversely, and I have a completely different position on this than the government and most of the pro-government Members who have spoken. But this is also important because everyone who sits here in Parliament, regardless of party standing, could only make a responsible decision if we had them at our disposal. I was saddened to find that we could hear almost only supporting contributions from Fidesz, and fortunately, this was an exception, but in most of the pro-government speakers, they said that it was absolutely necessary to support this agreement, no matter what the outcome. In addition to what we have already mentioned in our comments, I think, for example, that we have come out of market opening after EU accession, and this agreement would only strengthen this and further strengthen our multi-level role in Europe. Or there is also a risk of privatisation in strategic areas. But on the American side, the intention to redistribute the energy market is also clearly behind this agreement. The government is still referring to job creation. I think that this would not be the case on the basis of calculations, and on the other hand, the government's task would be to try to create value-creating jobs in a different way, because it is possible to do magic with statistics, to refer to the public work programme, but the last few years have been a failure in this respect. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group is next until the end of the remaining timeframe. Here you go.
u2015-02-26-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My problem is that what István Happy said here is very nice words, the problem is just that, as my fellow Member said, if he had been so interested in the background to this matter, he would have supported this debate day. Then, within Fidesen, they might have asked the government for background studies to be made aware of this matter. Let us not think, to the slightest extent, that when the vote takes place, both he and all the Members who are sitting in the pro-government benches will vote for him, because that is what his leaders will tell him, and he will press the yes button. I will tell you that this was the same when the Lisbon Treaty was signed, when you were willing to vote for it unread. They didn't know so much about the background, it wasn't even translated into Hungarian, but you signed it. And he says that national interests must be taken into account, but the Lisbon Treaty was everything but the consideration of the interests of the Hungarian nation. So, as they did then, they will do it now, because party discipline is more important than any of you to work according to your conscience or in the interests of the nation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone wants to talk to him for a maximum of 16 seconds. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr István Mikola, State Secretary, in a 20-minute time frame, who will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-26-129	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that the government is in favour of negotiations. There is no way to avoid negotiations, and we have asked and asked for support again. For the negotiations. The Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States does not exist at the moment. Although a process started in 2011, Minister told us in detail the story of this, which is a bit like this, let it go, it was where it swayed, where it braked, and in the last six months, something has happened hardly to very little; now it seems that the course of negotiations is back to a little bit, but it is not certain that it will last this year. We are counting on the need to prepare for a multi-annual long series of negotiations, which will end somewhere in a multi-annual perspective with the adoption of the Council, the drafting of the supporting or opposing opinion of the Hungarian Government, and then your decision will culminate here in Parliament. Thank you very much for the comments, we have faced very interesting opinions. It's very important to the government. We have also found concrete walls, and I must be honest with you, but I would like to stress that this negotiation was much more peaceful than, for example, the negotiations in Rome between the representatives of the State Department and the European Commission on the same subject, which took place on behalf of the previous Commissioner, Mr De Gucht, where there was almost a table covering. There are extremely sharp emotions in the negotiations, and they need to be dominated somewhere. I hope that we will now have further discussions in a more peaceful, professional environment, from which we, I repeat, do not want to and have no way of avoiding. [[15.30]] I would like to raise the question here at the end of the negotiations as to how we see whether there is a interdependence between the European Union and the United States of America in relation to the Free Trade Agreement. I do not want to answer this question; I just want to refer to the fact that giant economies around us are growing up at a huge pace, with two-digit GDP growth. For example, I refer to India, where the average age is 27 years. According to sober calculations, it will also grow beyond China by 2035-40, and there will be a competition between the United States and China for the second place. Giant economies are growing up, while Europe is slowly getting old, a little scansenized, and I'm even risking that. After all, do I remember the comment made by the President of the United States on one side when he was asked that "Europe" and "Europe"? She said, "It's a beautiful place to go." It's so stuck in me. We do not want to become a hiking place, we also have to live as players in the market, our economic prosperity and its sustainability are enough reasons for us to join this series of negotiations and scrape out chestnuts for ourselves. We're very far from the agreement, I've already mentioned that. In fact, we are at the beginning of a difficult, long negotiation process, and in this we are trying to gather strength and energy to stand our ground. I repeat, we are not negotiating with the United States, we are negotiating indirectly with the United States as a Member State of the European Union, because the European Commission has the mandate. We must enforce our expectations and interests through the European Commission. I would like to say that there were several questions about the interests of Hungary that we must defend. If I may, in summary, although it has been brought to my attention that I should not use the 20 minutes - and I will not, at least try - but let me run along the line on which the most exciting debates take place and which relate to the protection of the Hungarian interest. Road vehicle manufacturing, component manufacturing, auto parts production - we need to maintain our positions, and we expect significant progress in this area. In the field of chemical industry, we must protect the values obtained. I agree with Mr. Benedek, who was concerned about the chemical industry. The negotiating delegation, representing the national coalition of the chemical industry, said directly that if we fail to protect the chemical industry or find some way to ensure that the Hungarian chemical industry will be further covered, then the chemical industry will be destroyed. That's how he said it, word for word. So we know that there is a serious interest in protecting this area. It's a pharmaceutical industry. The pharmaceutical industry is a very important factor in Hungary's economic prosperity and its sustainability. When we discussed with international pharmaceutical manufacturers, we received very strong support to continue negotiations, since today Europe is not enough to develop a modern biological product or antibiotic. And the United States isn't enough. We must gather the forces here. Or I would like to point out, for example, that the biggest problem of pharmaceutical manufacturers in Hungary is a system called the Bolar system, the essence of which is that when the patent for an original drug expires, Europe can start manufacturing this product in the form of generics on that day. In the United States of America, there are laws that allow him to fill his warehouses with generics, perhaps a year or two before the patent expires, and on the day the drug's patent expires, he pours Europe out of the US warehouses. So we are currently experiencing a competitive disadvantage that we expect to settle, for example, in a free trade agreement. We would like to mention medical devices as a Hungarian interest, where access to the American market would be of great interest. Infocommunications products and services. It is very important to bear in mind that the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises into global value chains, the access to the US market, for example, to start-ups, would be very important, because today this process has been very burdensome. I recognise this as a great achievement, and this is already the result of the fact that we have managed to exclude audiovisual services from the negotiation process and from the planned framework of the whole free trade agreement. We also achieved the Germans' support for this, but we received support from several countries when we said that the government's regulatory powers should not be undermined by such an agreement. I have already mentioned in a two-minute comment on agriculture, but since this is very important, I would like to point out once again that only limited market opening is acceptable for certain agricultural basic products. This includes pork, poultrymeat, beef, sweet corn. It's not easy to defend that position, especially when I'm talking about corn. Food safety. There is a very high level of food acid in Europe, i.e. food safety. Far higher than in the United States. But I would also like to say that even in the United States there are huge regulatory differences, including in the area of agriculture. We must protect food safety and maintain the current legislation, such as animal welfare measures. Just to make it clear what I'm talking about, we're required to do chicken breeding in cages of the size. There's no such thing in America. America produces chicken meat much cheaper than we do in Hungary. And then she'll uncloak it. However, we cannot give up animal welfare measures that are now adopted on an EU scale and allow for a much higher quality of care for Hungarian food safety and consumers than is usually the case in the United States of America. The protection of geographical origins is very important to us. For example, think of the Tokaj wine or the brandy. In this Parliament, there were many words about schnapps. Or, for example, on the international issue of dispute resolution, on the international issue of ISDS, which was mentioned here, the Hungarian position is clear. The Hungarian legal order is capable of resolving disputes between large investors and governments under national authority. OECD countries are also required to demonstrate the suitability of their legal order in the so-called like-mindness system at entry in the assessment of such issues. I'd like a few more things. Levels of environmental protection, health protection standards and consumer protection standards should be maintained. Europe can be proud of these standards and are now able to comply with these levels in practice. We cannot give way to practices of a different and lower level of protection in the United States! Once again, I would like to point out that a lot of people in discussions and negotiations - in a word or two, I would even like to mention these organisations - said that it is very important to protect knowledge capital and patent protection. But it is also very important that we Hungarians can infiltrate global value chains with knowledge capital, and we do not have oil and gas. Treating knowledge capital is extremely important for us, and it would be very important for us to give start-ups the opportunity to enter the American markets. This does not mean that they will leave Hungary, because if we provide the opportunity, they will use the American market as a market, but the SME will remain with us. I would like to summarise very briefly the following, because many people have said that no one supports this series of negotiations in Hungary; not the agreement, because there is no agreement yet - the series of negotiations. But they support it. I have already spoken in a two-minute comment about the fact that, based on the Eurobarometer survey, one of Hungary's biggest supporters is this series of negotiations. I also said that 62 percent of Hungarians support it, and there is only 10 percent against it. In France, for example, only 50 percent of French citizens support it; in Slovakia 62 percent and Greece 61 percent. He's got a lot of support there, too. So who said that Greece rejects it in the first place: it is not so, because people in Greece support the series of negotiations in quite a large percentage. We have been negotiating - and, if you will allow me, I would like to make some highlights - with representatives of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Association, the National Association of Food Processors. Generally speaking, they are concerned about agricultural land. They are concerned, but at the same time they see an opportunity to discuss further the problems that I have briefly mentioned. The Hungarian Plant Protection Chamber of Engineering and Plant Medicine. I've made your point. It's pretty depressing. They are very concerned about compliance with food safety, strict standards for plant and animal food in the TTIP agreement. [[15.40]] Hungarian Patent Chamber of Officials: they support it, but they suggest that we must protect Hungarian intellectual property holders. VOSZ: growing competition in the context of TTIP liberalisation can strengthen SMEs and the Hungarian economy, says VOSZ. Hungarian Association of Employers and Industrialists, Hungarian Industry Association: By simplifying standards and regulations, Hungarian companies could achieve cost savings of 5-20 percent - they wrote this down for us. Hungarian Automotive Association, National Association of Hungarian Vehicle Component Manufacturers: the automotive industry can be a potential winner of the TTIP agreement, with a 30-40 percent reduction in costs. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] The Hungarian Veterinary Chamber is concerned about the sustainability of veterinary measures and is concerned about the equivalent mutual recognition of diplomas, but they do not see the successful continuation of these negotiations as hopeless. The Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors may have been the only organization that rejects TTIP rigidly and without any reason. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Without any reason?]] They were very prepared -- not without reason, but with all the possibilities -- I put it wrong -- to have hopeful negotiations with them. They were very prepared, they believe that TTIP is putting the EU's achievements at risk, and Hungary is not ratifying the CETA agreement between the European Union and Canada. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] This came to me, but it was not my responsibility - to not do so. They call for a multi-party consensus and multi-party negotiations - we are open to that, and if there is time, I will say a few words. Air Task Force: does not support, the economies of the smaller countries will weaken, they say. The Association of Environmental Service Providers and Manufacturers does not fear that there will be serious damage on the part of the US in the field of environmental enterprises, but at the same time it stands up for the preservation of values, and it is also listed the values they think of. They support the negotiations for the agreement. The Foreign Trade Association supports TTIP: well-performing Hungarian SMEs can benefit from, they say, an agreement, hoping for better market access conditions. The Hungarian Road Carriers have a positive expectation: road transport is currently the most exportworthy Hungarian service sector, they say, and the Hungarian road transport sector can certainly benefit from increased freight traffic in connection with ATTIP. Chamber of Industry and Trade: Any free trade agreement can contribute to the strengthening of the economy and growth by creating conditions of competition; it is important to deal with access to public procurement in the US Federation States; they ask for the strengthening of patent protection for Hungarian products. The Hungarian Pharmacy Association - I have already said a few words about this - the pharmacists ask for the preservation of patient-centricity and professional public bodies. The American Chamber of Economics, Amcham, says that 35 percent of the total exports of Amcham companies with 160,000 employees are directed to the US, so Amcham is interested in creating TTIP. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] The Hungarian Chemical Association has written a letter to Jean-Claude Juncker, Martin Schulz and Donald Tusk, calling attention dramatically to the possible free trade agreement. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why? Why?!]] They've raised a lot of questions, and I can't tell you that right now. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Well, that's it!]] Their claim was justified, but I have referred to the fact that the Hungarian chemical industry is extremely sensitive to such a free trade agreement. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] And they feel they're not ready for this. Please, this is what I wanted to tell you, thanking you again. [[Turning to Dr. András Schiffer:]] And really thanks to the comments, this trial was important to us, and it was important to me, of course. I think that in the following, as I promised, and here we have already talked to the experts about this, the material that we have prepared for this discussion - this is a rather prestigious, big material - if you will allow us, a little supplemented by the discussions with the professional organisations that have been said here and there, although its resume is in it, but we will put it in a bit more detail, using the minutes of the negotiation with professional organisations, we will prepare it, and in a week or two, if you accept it, we would like to send this to all Members of Parliament. And I very much hope that the written material of this so-called impact study by Zsolt Becsey's working group and other experts, which was commissioned by the government in November 2013, will be finally lifted in the near future, of course we will send it to everyone - there is a law, and I have just learned that I cannot send it out until it is resolved, I hope that it will happen. And I promise you that we will organise those meetings - and I ask for the help of political parties in this - that we can continue with the parties' experts and appointed experts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade according to our plans, where, whether there are any preconceptions or not, or whether we are afraid or not of it, I think it would be useful to talk about these things in the way that European negotiations are going on. I ask you with respect, because I think we can push each other, but the case is above us, so it would be a good thing if we could talk about these issues in person there. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] There's plenty of time, this agreement won't happen in seconds, there's time to talk about it, and if we change our experiences, we might be better prepared to negotiate. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-26-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Why is it average and misleading on Fidesz's part to justify sweeping down the national rural strategy? Mr Zoltán Magyar, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After such an important and ferocious debate, I would like to turn a little bit, but it is still very closely on today's agenda that I am going to talk about. On the one hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the opinion of the CF has not yet been made known in the previous ones. While we were very pleased that the Secretary of State said that the Chamber of Agriculture and Magos as very independent organisations supported the government's negotiation, I would also like to hear the opinion of the CÖF, it would certainly be quite different from that of an independent NGO. But to return to the subject: the national rural strategy, which you first levitated as the constitution of the countryside in 2010, has still been forgotten to bring to Parliament. By 2020, this strategy launched the future of the Hungarian countryside and sought to outline the development principles that the countryside should use in Hungary, the EU funds, domestic opportunities, and yet in which direction we should move. It's 2015, if I'm not mistaken, so it's supposed to be halfway through the National Rural Strategy, compared to what I said, it's not even in front of the House. They accepted it at a government meeting, but they didn't dare bring it here. This is the strategy that was developed during the term of József Ángyán's Secretary of State, and with which Jobbik also, and perhaps even if I say 90 percent, I will not say anything untrue, so we could agree with 90% of those laid down there, because it outlined a landscape that Jobbik saw in its 2010 and 14 electoral programmes, and in addition to similar developments we can imagine the future of the Hungarian countryside. So since we have waited for you in vain for this strategy to come before the House, and at last at half-time we will discuss how we are doing, so I, in an unchanged form - and it is very important to stress this - asked your original proposal to the Committee on Agriculture in the form of a proposal for a decision, so that it can be decided there before the House. Unfortunately, however, with the support of the opposition, but with the vote against by the pro-government representatives, this was cancelled, so it did not come here, which is very strange and worrying, because it was your proposal, as I said, that I put forward the original word for word. There have been arguments that it is not worth bringing this to Parliament now, because otherwise everything is fine, the national rural strategy has been implemented on a pro rata basis, and I do not have to worry, absolutely everything is in place and we are moving forward. [[15.50]] In addition to my deep disagreement with this statement, many other issues were raised in the debate that took place at the committee meeting. First of all, I have been constantly confronted with the fact that you are adding the current export capacity of agriculture and the presence of 10-15 thousand farmers in agriculture and giving an equal signal to the countryside, the rural situation, opportunities and employment, while we should not at all put an equal sign here, to be more precise: it would be good if we could put a sign of equality here. However, that is not the case. Today, we call it agriculture, which is happening in Hungary, but let's face it between us, that this production of industrial raw materials is to a large extent, which creates an extremely small number of jobs per hectare, and that the proportion of processed products is well below, otherwise, according to the government's own admission, it is expected. For all these reasons, I would like to draw the matter out of this narrow perspective and draw the attention of the government to the fact that the productivity and export capacity of these 15,000 families is very good, that they are growing, and we are glad that they are so, but it cannot be compared to the fact that the number of people employed in agriculture is falling year after year. I wouldn't bore you with the statistics right now. I've printed out KSH data for every sector I've found. Thus, employment, rural sustainability, preservation, rural living standards and, let us say, the difference between the standard of living in Budapest continue to increase and the trend that will result in extinct, extinct villages and settlements in this country will continue to grow. I'm not just talking about the more backward eastern regions. As a Member of Parliament in West Hungary, I can tell you that there are dozens of small settlements in Győr-Moson-Sopron County that are an ageing settlement. For all these reasons, I would urge the honourable Government once again - and I am pleased that the Secretary of State has stayed with us - to bring the national rural strategy to the House and to have a substantive debate about it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-02-26-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-26-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, Government 1074/2012. CHAPTER III The Council adopted a national rural strategy under its Government Decision of 28 October 2006. This is where they set out the objective of achieving an apparent improvement in the social and economic processes of the countryside, which can be seen by all stakeholders by 2020. By creating and implementing the strategy, the portfolio aims to renew rural Hungary as a whole, to achieve rural development programmes that, building on the values of people and the community, maintain traditions, preserve the values of the landscape and built environment, manage the natural resources in a sustainable way, develop agriculture and restore the value of rural life, improve the quality of life of rural people. As above, in addition to the strategic programmes launched in recent years, a number of measures aimed at achieving the objectives set out in the national rural strategy, legislative changes have already taken place in the past and have been incorporated into specific sectoral strategies. In view of the fact that the objectives and strategic programmes of the national rural strategy concern several sectors, the results achieved per professional area, the measures already taken are included in the technical reports submitted and in the sectoral summaries, and the actions of the Dányi Ignac plan provided a number of options using the amounts of the applications. The national rural strategy is a long-term concept. Its programme will be implemented continuously and in a scheduled manner. Priority is the land and property policy programme, the association development programme, livestock breeding, gardening and organic farming development programmes, the local production, sale, processing programme, the local catering programme, the farm development programme and the rural development cooperation programme with Hungarians across borders. However, in the period since the establishment of the strategy, we can already record a number of results. One example is the launch of the Ős-Dráva programme, measures related to the rural table, the creation of a craft strategy, the preservation of rural heritage, the New Hungary rural development programme from sources. The resources available have already made a tangible contribution to supporting the priorities of the national rural strategy by implementing some of the priority complex programmes. Among these, I must mention the farm development programme, which has been opened four times so far. By amending the Small Producer Regulation, a lighter, comprehensible and simpler food safety requirement for local markets has been developed to facilitate access to the market for small-scale products. The number of registered small producers also increased: 5169 in 2010 and 10 854 in 2013. Hungary's medium- and long-term food industry development strategy has also been completed. By amending the Public Procurement Act and shortening the trade chain, small producers can sell their products directly in public catering. The amendment to the Trade Act, which introduced the concept of a producer market, was a step to support the creation of local markets. Environmental management, in particular in order to increase eco-management, has been developed in line with the national rural strategy, a national action plan for the development of organic farming. The Action Plan sets out the actions for the 2014-2020 period around six action programmes. The national rural development programme 2014-20 is being finalised in order to achieve the objective of the national rural development strategy. The programme's declared aim is to prepare a rural development programme in our country that can serve to help people in rural areas catch up and improve their living conditions and farming conditions in line with the strategy. The initiative to negotiate the results of the rural strategy in Parliament has already been examined by the Ministry and does not consider it timely, since the professional monitoring of the rural strategy should be carried out at the same pace as measuring the effects that will emerge later in time, with a thorough professional analysis. I would like to note here, however, that every year our report on the state of the agricultural economy to be presented to the Parliament, in which all the results achieved so far will be presented in the rural development strategy, will be presented. Thank you very much for asking.
u2015-02-26-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The wind's blown away? Ms Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, asked for an opportunity to speak after the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-02-26-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Annex to the National Property Act mentions the monument of the flame of the Revolution as one of the most important assets of national economic importance in Budapest, Kossuth Square, district V., as one of the statues on the 24 893. If anyone visits the national square, they should be surprised at the same time that there is no news of the above-mentioned monument, despite the fact that it should be there by law; we could say that it was blown away by the wind. I would have drawn attention to this anomaly in a written question, i.e. that there is a lack of a national asset and, together with this, a worthy record and display of the memory of the revolution and the struggle for freedom of 1956, not least on the square. Unfortunately, this request, my question, was rejected by Speaker László Kövér on this national property - attention! - none of the Hungarian ministers are competent now. Then, in a further letter, he drew my attention to the following. Point 1: 61/2011. According to OGY's resolution, I quote:. The memory of the victims of the 1956 tragic volley can be restored to the state of the visual art image of the space before 1944. I would like to draw your attention to this House and to the Speaker that no parliamentary resolution can override any laws in force, but the text itself is not about the need to put an end to the flame of the Revolution. [[16.00]] Point 2: The letter also refers to the visible memories of the revolution of 56 at present in the renovated square. It refers to the opening of an exhibition on the subject in an underground utility tunnel. I am convinced that forcing the memory of the revolution into the ground and even, given that the exhibition is not open now, it is still closed - even putting the lock on it, it quotes the darkest communist tempo. That's something to protest about. According to point 3, a further memory is mentioned in the letter, namely that it is also about the victims of the bloody Thursday, October 25, 1956 - I quote - an effective but properly discreet memorial sign, which is a quote carved in the facade of the water mirror. I should point out that László Fat was so discreet that he couldn't remember exactly what he was really looking for, according to the letter. At the same time, the event that the inscription so-called discreetly wanted to record was everything but discreet. The memory of hundreds of victims is clearly free and must be recorded in order to serve as an eternal lesson for future generations: there is no more cruel killer than the Communist Vávos. And finally, let us answer the question of whether it is necessary to display the memory of the 1956 Revolution in the form of an eternal flame or an eternal candle in the nation's main square. I'm sure you do. And not only in order to enforce the law, but in order to prove our own national pride, our commitment, as a creed to future generations. So now, once again, because I have done this in the context of a parliamentary resolution before, I would like to initiate the restoration of the Revolution, or the Office of Parliament to restore the flame of the Revolution, or, if it has been destroyed in some way, to create a new, worthy memory of the 1956 revolution in the national square. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-26-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr István Ikotity from the LMP Group must be evaluated for the post- Agenda for the Hungarian school segregation. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-26-137	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, In November last year, the government submitted the Public Education Salad Act, an important point of which covered the complementary interpretation of the Equal Treatment Act. According to this, the government has received a new right of regulation to supplement and clarify the definition of discrimination, exceptions to segregation. The amendment brought the debate on segregation back on fire in Hungary. According to LMP, this additional right of regulation was not necessary, but we do not think that Zoltán Balog, Minister for Education, would have created a legal loophole for the further spread of segregation. Unfortunately, based on the available knowledge, we do not know much about segregation in the Hungarian school system. Surveys were last conducted before 2010, but they were not all school-wide, comprehensive research. Based on the studies of social scientists, we know that there has been a steady increase in segregation in Hungarian schools since the turn of the millennium. Even ten years ago, it has been proven for hundreds of primary schools that Roma pupils are majority in these institutions. In these cases, it is not just that disadvantaged students, often requiring more attention, are the majority in schools. This situation requires more than average pedagogical work, but students are clearly learning under worse conditions in segregation schools and classes, and they are clearly achieving worse results for these reasons. It also follows that their future prospects for the labour market will clearly be worse. The problem is getting worse and worse. One of the most pressing problems of the Hungarian economy and society is low employment, mainly due to the tragically low participation of low-skilled people in the labour market in European comparison. The problems are complex, but segregation plays a major role in all of this. We therefore have only a fraction of the situation before 2010, but no such surveys have been carried out after 2010. The government has repeatedly admitted to the LMP that such knowledge is not available. The Ministry of Human Resources also said that they would like to speak frankly and with professional actors about the problem of segregation. According to the LMP, it is essential to have specific social science data. The current situation should be kept under constant review and trends should be accurately identified. Solutions to a problem can only be developed if we know exactly what we are dealing with. That is why the LMP is submitting a parliamentary decision proposal, because it would like to ask the government to assess segregation in the Hungarian school system by means of social science and to draw up a plan of measures to eradicate and suppress it. Dear House, We are aware that segregation cannot be eliminated solely by educational policy instruments. The school system depicts social changes, the growth of social inequalities. As economic, territorial, residential, social differences increase, segregation increases. The term means separation and separation at the same time. In Hungary, the free choice of schools has created the possibility of moving between schools, parents can take their children to institutions outside the district, this option is much less restricted in Hungary than in foreign countries. Of course, the solution lies not in reducing the options, but rather in complex interventions. In addition to the need for a radical change of direction in public education, the wider social policy of the government should also be rethinked. As long as social inequalities continue to increase, segregation will continue to grow. But until then, it's all based on accurate knowledge of the situation. This is why we need to assess segregation, which should be done by the government on the proposal of the LMP. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-26-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first day of the next spring session will take place on Monday, 2 March. Thank you for your two weeks' work. I wish you all a happy homecoming, a happy weekend. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:07 p.m.]]
