u2015-09-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The second extraordinary session of the Parliament's autumn session is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, The LMP representative, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Designing sustainable development goals in itself is not enough." Here you go.
u2015-09-29-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the end of the last week, the UN General Assembly's high-level plenary session adopted the document "The Transformation of Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development," which follows the Millennium Development Goals 2000-2015. Pope Francis and President of Hungary spoke at the general meeting. In his speech, His Holiness indicated both the causes of the degradation of the natural environment and the exclusion of people in a selfish and insatiable desire for material prosperity. In his speech, János Áder stressed the importance of combating climate change and rightly pointed out that for 17 purposes, one could hardly be achieved if climate change could not be managed jointly by mankind. The event, the enthusiasm there, the goals set, can give the world hope to solve our growing problems. But can they really give us hope? The UN and the citizens of our world have already had great experience in accepting the lofty global goals, the momentary, easy-to-pass enthusiasm. Following the euphoria of the Rio Summit on Age Change and Sustainable Development, world leaders were reluctant to implement the Framework Convention on Climate Change or Biodiversity, in both cases the situation deteriorated significantly in the absence of political will. Pope Francis also referred in his speech to empty words, to institutions with low efficiency, saying: "We must avoid the danger of making merely loud statements to reassure our conscience. Indeed. Doing nothing after a loud declaration makes people uninterested, even though the programme defines both domestic and international tasks for all countries, with 17 objectives, such as poverty, hunger, climate change, health, education and the use of natural resources. It is undisputed that the tasks in these areas are only multiplying in Hungary as well. Poverty is growing, health is deteriorating, society's health is poor, and I could tell you more. Let's be honest: the weekend event was no special news here or anywhere else in the world. From the media dominated by the migrant crisis, we could report only on the fact of the event, although 17 goals and global migration are closely linked. It is important to be aware that the reasons for setting the targets are also the causes of migration. Political will remains lacking. Prior to the great summit of nations, the governing parties did not put the implementation of the domestic situation and the resulting tasks on the agenda of the Parliament. The public discourse is not too loud about what the document contains. How do we want to achieve the goals if we do not make people aware of their importance and the possibilities for their implementation, while without their day-to-day actions, the goals cannot be achieved? However, it would be worthwhile to open a debate on the goals and the feasibility of them together at all the forums of society. Is it believable that the old-new goals can be achieved with the recipes so far, while they have proven their incompetence? Let's say we manage to provide everyone with material well-being, cheap, accessible food, energy, water, solve an exclusion-free, just society, further increase the output of the economy. But could it be possible to reduce the pressure on the environment at the same time, when, even in the developed world, economic growth is associated with an increase in environmental pressures? We should finally take down the false illusions. Together with humanity, societies and people must recognize the right measure individually, that it is not possible to achieve the right measure without the restraint of those who have so far made an excessive contribution to the foaming of prosperity. Policy should finally move away from serving socialised societies to meet short-term interests in the interests of self-power, taking a historic role in launching social change from selfishness to global ownership. [[9.10]] Without this, in the refugee crisis that everyone is experiencing right now, we have to face far more serious problems and problems that are highly unmanageable in all countries of the world. Dear Parliament, The title of the document is: -The transformation of our world, not the unfolding of it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Indeed, it is time for a change instead of a fold. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-29-2	On behalf of the Government, Mr László Szabó State Secretary will answer. Here you go.
u2015-09-29-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I were to answer your question briefly, I could do it in one word: I agree. Sustainable development goals are at the heart of a framework for poverty reduction and sustainable development with a dual objective, and, indeed, the provision of resources beyond targets, beyond the definition of targets, must be established, and a monitoring and review system should also be established. The target system adopted on 25 September, i.e. setting the global global development model on a sustainable path, can be called the UN's current largest enterprise. The new global sustainable development framework builds on the three pillars of balanced social development, sustainable economic growth and environmental protection. The target system is universal, so it gives each country a task. At the same time, the break-up with the previous logic focused only on developing countries' problems will provide an opportunity for a comprehensive implementation of their own development strategies. In the last year and a half, Hungary and Kenya have jointly led the task force, which has developed the goals, and it is good to see that the environmental dimension is also reflected in 14 for the 17 specific purposes. Indeed, the designation of sustainable development goals is not enough in itself, and Mrs Schmuck is right, it is necessary to pursue the objectives as perfectly as possible, which requires a global partnership and international cooperation. Of course, governments must pay attention to the availability of domestic resources for sustainable development and support projects in this regard. In addition to budgetary and international development resources, new resources need to be found, such as other sources of investment, international loans and grants, so that they can implement this throughout the world. A growing emphasis is placed on meeting the commitments made in the area of official development aid, and this is good news; in the medium to long term, economic interest enforcement can also be used for indirect market acquisition. One of the priority tasks of our country is to integrate and implement the current national sustainable development strategy. The transformation of our development cooperation programme and coherence between certain sectoral policies will be necessary. Implementation and coordination will be a major challenge for developed states, including Hungary, and the whole system of government institutions must be clearly involved in the implementation. The government will decide on the owner of the implementation tasks in the near future. We need to draw up a national implementation programme for the implementation of the framework, which will include indicators currently being developed, and this will ensure that the implementation of the framework is monitored. Control will take place not only at national level but also at regional and global level. On the basis of the indicator system to be finalised next year, each state should report every two years on the implementation of the framework, and a summary report will be drawn up from these reports at the address of the Global Sustainable Development Report. As soon as possible, the achievement of greater results in the area of sustainable development is in the fundamental, common interest of all of us, an essential element of maintaining and creating peace and security, which can only be said to be widespread and without exaggerating that global cooperation can only be achieved. Hungary is committed to participating in this cooperation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-29-4	Dear House, The speech by the MSZP representative, Ágnes Kunhalmi, will now be accompanied by a statement entitled "Pressings in 2015." Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-09-29-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I say thank you to the teachers, sisters and public servants of Hungary. Thank you for your perseverance, your work, your strength. In the system where everyone is being watched, special thanks are given to teachers. Thank you for getting up every day, and you're in the schools, kindergartens, classrooms at 7:00 a.m., 7:30 a.m. [[István Szilárd Németh: Well, this is sensational!]] and they do their job by looking at them as objects of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre; that the inspectors of the KLIK are running around with hundreds of thousands of forints of salaries, and they want to figure out if the way they teach is quite national, if they are loyal enough to the central party policy ideology, or if they meet the expectations of the code of ethics. [[9.20]] Thank you for doing what you have sworn to do, the profession you have undertaken, when the state, politics, does not serve them the way they serve our country. How can the desire to leave the career be raised among teachers? In recent years, not only has the teaching profession become more attractive, but we are talking directly about a lack of teachers. How does it happen that teachers don't get their benefits in time? This hasn't happened in 20 years. How can it be that the school system doesn't pay the bills, the utility bills aren't paid, the Klebelsberg Institutional Center owes money to grass trees? How can it be that there has been no substantial increase in earnings for many since you have been here, while you have to work much more and that administration in the education system is slowly being administered? How can it be that non-educator workers, so those who are with our children every day, have not received a salary increase for eight years? School secretaries, kindergarten secretaries, dormitory secretaries, nurses in kindergarten, labists, school psychologists, porters, janitors and so on; while these people were in municipal employment, their incomes were 20-30 thousand forints higher. And how does it happen that you are a system in which the KLIK constantly recreates its debt, and no one in the government has any idea how to patch up KLIK's debt? The world has never seen such an unfair and false wage system, which you have created, which is not differential, which is not an incentive for development, only for intel! We want the state not only to acknowledge their work on paper, but also statistically, indeed. We want them not to get a raise while the cafeteria is immediately eliminated and their working hours are increasing, while KLIK's people, the state's leaders, are making more and more money. We want their salary to be really higher. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Politics is about simple issues: what country we want to live in, what place Hungary should be, a country that appreciates its members, all those who shape the future, or where hopelessness, integration and coercion continue to prevail; where teachers, nurses, doctors understand and know that while public service is about children, parents, patients, citizens of the state, it is about all of us, while the state understands and cares about those who do this. We want a country where public servants feel that the state is their ally in achieving a better life, and people feel that public servants and the state are organizing better services for them. We understand and know that our common services will be as good and developing as we appreciate those who do this. That's what the MSZP's salary increase programme is about, and that's why we're demanding the government not to spend it on you, but on these people. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-29-6	I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2015-09-29-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, In short, I could say that teachers could respond to this speech - in addition to thanking you for the good wishes - so that the MSZP would thank you once, because it knew how grateful the MSZP was to teachers: it took a month's wages from them in 2008 as well as the sicc. The result of their great gratitude was that all teachers brought home less than a month's wages in Hungary. What we do see, however, is that since autumn 2006, the Hungarian Socialist Party has not been able to advance significantly in public life with any subject, has not been able to come up with any popular proposals, and has been struggling for almost nine years now in politics and here in Parliament, without having any real political progress, which is why they have now started a campaign desperately and slightly sweaty over the past two weeks, in which they demand higher wages for everyone. They do so by not voting in favour of tax laws on the basis of which everyone has to pay less taxes, by not voting in favour of budgets where, for example, the salaries of teachers are 40%, the salaries of health workers by 27 percent, the salaries of public service workers by 30-40 percent, and the salaries of workers in armed bodies have not been voted in favour, but have not voted in favour of the sectoral wage supplements that have been introduced in the social sphere and are paid every year to social workers. After voting off all wage increases so far in the last five years, the Socialist Party has voted off all tax cuts so far over the last five years, and is suddenly trying to make this proposal for a raise in its deep-flying as a miracle weapon, which is, by the way, a recognition of the government's economic policy, as you claim that it is possible to raise wages in Hungary now because the performance of the economy is better. An opposition party rarely receives such praise from a governing party that it has conducted such a good economic policy that it is now possible to raise wages and give people higher wages. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, over the last five years, wages in Hungary have increased at twice the rate of GDP, because we have said that people have to benefit from the rising performance of the economy in proportion and have received twice as much income as the economy has grown. On the other hand, I would also say that we should thank the Socialists for their recognition, but believe me, if we were better at economic policy than you - because our economic policy can result in wage increases, and your economic policy has resulted in 13th month's pension and 13th month's salary being taken away in the public sector - then perhaps we are better at wage increases than just dealing with economic matters. As far as leaving teachers is concerned: if you had been here in Parliament in the debates on wage increases in the social sphere, you would know that the exact reason why you had to raise the wages of higher qualified social workers and that similar measures are needed in the field of higher education, because the teaching field now simply distracts people who are working in a social institution with pedagogical education, because the money has become much higher. In many cases, it is more rewarding for a teacher's assistant or assistant to teach in high school, because there the salaries have increased by 40%, and the teacher's career is draining people from the social sector or from the lower categories of pay in higher education. There can be no shortage of teachers because more than 800 people are involved in the opportunities offered by the Klebelsberg Scholarship, and they have obtained a degree in skills shortages, in order to create a long-term pedagogue in Hungary. So, fortunately, we can't talk about leaving the field in the last three or four years since we introduced the teaching career. In the same way, I refuse that teachers will not receive their benefits. Everyone gets their regular monthly salary, and they get it much safer than they did during the municipal period. Although you did not support it, the Parliament voted for HUF 32 billion in the 2013 budget, the Parliament voted for HUF 120 billion in the 2014 budget and the Parliament voted for HUF 38 billion in this year's budget. And for those with secondary education, we usually give 50,000 HUF extra cafeteria benefits, as this is what we agreed with the unions; 25 thousand HUF was our first offer, but they successfully increased it to 50,000 HUF during the negotiations. Let me tell you two more figures: 137 cases have been asked this year to take over the operation of schools by KLIK from the municipalities. If it worked so badly, why would they ask for the KLIK to be the operator in 137 cases? The second is: does the pedagogical career encourage quality? You said you didn't. According to recent surveys, 94.5 percent of teachers said that their careers encourage them to perform more, which, I believe, will benefit the children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.30]]
u2015-09-29-8	Mr László Földi, on behalf of the KDNP, also applied for a speech before the agenda: the Kossuth cult with the title of the heritage of all of us. Here you go.
u2015-09-29-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In danger to the country! Our nation is about to take a crucial lesson. The question is: Should we lose our acquired rights, our independence? On 24 September 1848, Lajos Kossuth, one of the greatest figures of the Hungarian nation, one of the greatest leaders in Hungarian history, asked this question at Cegléd, the first stop of his recruiting tour in the lowlands. Then he went on to say: "My fellow countrymen! Citizens of Cegléd! The fate of the nation is in your hands. We're all brothers. We must choose between freedom and servitude. Let us think of our ancestors who have chosen freedom! Looks like the nation's about to take another fateful lesson. A world has gone our way and against us. The fearsome masses of unknown, unidentifiable alien natives of distant peoples are crossing Europe. Hundreds of thousands of men, women and children robbed by unscrupulous, unscrupulous politicians' promises take the risk of death in the hope of a better life. In such a crisis, our values are at stake. While the inhabitants of the dark places of the world walk towards the light of Europe, leaving behind the ruins of their own destroyed culture, we must protect and protect everything that makes us Hungarians and Europeans; the memorials of our history, buildings such as the former Hussar barracks in Cegléd, in which a detention camp operated from November 1944 until the end of 1945. More than 200,000 Hungarian soldiers and civilians came down to hell here, more than 5,000 never returned. The bricks of the building still guard the engravings of the sufferers. Thanks to the persistent conciliation work of the last few months, we have come a step closer to making the former Hussar barracks of Cegléd a historic monument. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's very important.]] For this initiative, we now have the support of the National Memorial and Kedeleti Committee of the Government and the Prime Minister's Office. We are on the right track to make this important place in the history of our city and our country a worthy museum of remembrance. For the Ceglédians, Lajos Kossuth will always be the compass of patriotism. The recruiting speech of this great statesman in our city inspires us at the dawn of all modern challenges. It is an inheritance that we have a priority to maintain and develop. Our joint success is that, on the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Intellectual and Cultural Heritage of the Hungarian National Committee of UNESCO, the tradition of the Kossuth cult in Cegléd has also been added to the national list of intellectual and cultural heritage. For the 20th time on the last weekend of September in Cegléd, we organized the event series of the Kossuth recruiter, with a multitude of cultural programs. The main square of our city was filled with Kossuth's words again, and we placed the wreaths of memory and grace at the great patriot memorial plaque and statue. To conclude, quoting Kossuth, we can say that this people are so powerful that if they rise up and stick together, the gates of hell will not be strong in Hungary. He can also maintain the vaults of the crappy sky in his arms. The God of the Hungarians, the truth of our faith, the love of our people, give us strength to fight! Thank you for listening. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2015-09-29-10	I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and listen to the reply of Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2015-09-29-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much, I think, all of you, Congressman, for telling us all this from the city of Cegléd. I mean, even if it's the 19th. The history of the century, as part of the Kossuth cult, is Cegléd's city, even if it is XX. We are looking at the sadder part of the century, the assembly camp from which the Hungarians who were taken away were taken to the camps of the Gulag and Gupvi, both in terms of a positive and negative event, in relation to the 19th century. and XX. One node in the history of the century was in Cegléd. And you keep this tradition, whether the Kossuth cult or the memory of the Gulag-Gupvir, or the memories of the abduction of the former small owners there, the persecution of the Kulacs, very nicely preserved, and the memory of these people is kept alive. In this connection, it is important that the Hungarian government also announced the Gulag Memorial Year, which runs from this year until February 25, 2017, and it is important to remember the same people who, as Mr. The person who saw these must have been a heartbreaking memory and experience of what the people who went to death were sending back or what they wanted to leave behind as their last opportunity here in the country. It is important to preserve this, so that we can present to as many as possible this kind of inhumanity, which is marked here in bricks. Some of the numerous events of the Gulag Memorial Year were important, which I would like to highlight here. Here in the upper hall, on 25 February this year, the event started with the conference "Trauma and Taboo" of the International Society of the Gulag Researchers, which filled the upper hall completely, historians and a handful of former survivors were among us, and we remembered those who were taken away, whether it was a Malanki robot, whether it was the Gulag, political prisoners or German. I mean, there's a lot of ways and ways that Cegléd or the Gulag-Gupvi camps got these people. At first, only the Germans were collected, with a kind of war satisfaction on the German nation, and then everyone else. There was one, right, it was enough to remember György Faludy, who barely survived the Holocaust, then the Communists took him away, dragged him to forced labour, but they were even like the historical records of those who were members of the Communist Party, but since they had to collect 30-50-100 people from the settlement, they were included in the list. Hundreds of thousands of our compatriots were thus included in these forced labour camps, and half of them never returned home. An important exhibition, which you can see today on Andrássy Road, in front of the House of Terror, which also presents the sufferings carried on the Gulag. It is important that the Memorial Committee, which has established members of countless organizations among the members of the Memorial Committee, has also made a decision to contribute to the construction of the Memorial of the victims of communism there in Canada, Ottawa, with $100,000 in Canadian dollars. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Canada, Ottawa, in the middle of the city, the monument of the victims of communism is now being built in a completely central place; on another continent where there was no communist dictatorship. While there is no such monument here in Budapest, Hungary. How is it possible that in Canada the victims of communism will be erected a monument sooner than we in Hungary, even though several million people have suffered the communist period here? Thousands of people were executed, tens of thousands were interned, hundreds of thousands were crippled or B-listed. That is why a social debate started at least after the Canadian initiative, that there should be a memorial to the victims of communism here in Budapest, which would also remember the victims of the Gulag. There have already been various revelations and articles in this regard. We hope that as many people will give their views on this issue, in this social debate as possible, that there is a need to establish a Soviet occupation monument in the Szabadság Square. One of the features of this website is the past of Speech, where everyone will be able to find out about the Gulag Memorial Year, but here will also be the announcement of the proposals that the Gulag Memorial Committee has already decided on. Let us hope that we can contribute to the creation of monuments and the organisation of events for as many people as possible. I also think it is important that during the previous period, the victims who still live among us, who have been imprisoned for 1-3 years or longer, managed to increase their pension supplement by 50 percent twice, i.e. double, so we tried to provide them with ex post compensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2015-09-29-12	János Volner, on behalf of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The Quaestor scandal has shown that the same accountability as before has been called. Congressman's got the floor.
u2015-09-29-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the time of the Quaestor scandal, the government said that it was a series of financial corruption crimes that took place for 15 years. If we count down the 15 years, we can see that this series of crimes started during the first Orbán government, continued smoothly during the eight years of the socialists, then continued undisturbed during the second Orbán government, and in the end, when, for example, Csaba Tarsoly's letter to Prime Minister revealed that the money was missing, the entire house of cards fell. [[9.40]] It can also be seen that Quaestor, as a company concerned, had very good relations both on the left and on the right, had good relations with the Socialist Government, had good relations with the leading politicians of Fidesz, members of the government. It is also interesting that the complaint in the Quaestor case, which was made in the case of an uncovered loan of HUF 16.9 billion at the time of the socialists, was brought to an end by the Public Prosecutor's Office during the government of Fidesz in 2010. The entire apparatus of the Hungarian National Bank has dealt with the implementation of the art purchase and castle purchase program for György Matolcsy, but they did not have time to check the only 24 independent brokerage companies. It's only two dozen companies, but they haven't been properly audited once. And compared to this, the former president of financial supervision, Károly Szász, appointed by Fidesz, was awarded a high state award by the Orbán government for his outstanding work at the head of financial supervision on 15 March. You've shown me once again that Fidesz is the only thing that matters, only the Fidesz people get everything. It is also interesting to see what has happened since then. It turned out that, following Viktor Orbán's personal proceedings, Csaba Tarsoly himself had written a letter to Viktor Orbán about it. It was also apparent that a whole range of Fidesz municipalities kept their money at Quaestor because they had a very good relationship with the company's leaders at that time. Jobbik said that in view of the fact that the Prime Minister was able to prove himself before the company fell, the government knew that Quaestor was in a state of shock, so it is important to clarify in a reassuring way that no one was using inside information and at the last minute did not withdraw his money from the Quaestor. Therefore, Jobbik's representatives decided to declare, in the knowledge of their criminal liability, that none of them had kept their money in Quaestor, that no one's immediate family member or business was involved in the last-minute withdrawal of money, and that we called on the representatives of the parliamentary parties to make a similar statement in this matter. Other parties have already done so, only the Fidesz-KDNP coalition has not taken this opportunity. Why? Could it be that more people were involved in this case in person, and at the last minute inside information was used to extract money from a credit institution in distress, because they knew that it was going to fall, they knew that money was going to be lost? This information was not at the disposal of the Hungarian small people, very many of them lost their money at the brokerage companies in trouble. Why would the Fidesz Members not want to make a statement on this in the light of their criminal liability? My fellow Members, there is growing suspicion that because of the fact that a number of Fidesz politicians, many national bank leaders themselves are involved in this series of crimes by taking money out of the Quaestor at the last moments. A number of people approached us with this suspicion, formulated this, and asked us to force the statement out of Fidesz. I also asked the Prime Minister to call on the representatives of his party to make a statement and to reassure them of their responsibilities. Unfortunately, this has not happened to this day. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-14	Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2015-09-29-15	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Your accusations to the government are denied. The government condemns all crimes, and the government demands strict punishment and accountability of those responsible. In recent years, the government has dealt with the broker scandal and its consequences in particular, taking a number of unprecedented and immediate measures to help victims. The government will make every effort to restore confidence in the financial intermediary system and ensure that such abuses and frauds are not repeated in the future. In mid-July 2015, the payment of the compensation part of the bond settlement under the Quaestor Act for the Investor Protection Fund started. BEVA pays the victims a claim for money for missing bonds, each up to EUR 20 thousand, up to HUF 6 million through the Quaestor claims fund. This means a total payment of HUF 88 billion to nearly 32,000 customers. Up to EUR 100,000 - up to HUF 30 million - the remaining amount is being further paid in a similar order of nearly HUF 100 billion, a constitutional procedure is currently under way, after which payment can be made. In order to improve the control and supervision of the financial intermediary system, on 24 June the Parliament adopted a law amending certain laws to promote the development of the financial intermediary system, thus addressing the problems that allowed certain actors in the investment sector to deceive both their clients and the supervisory authority. Measures include ensuring greater and more effective control, without the need for completeness, while ensuring appropriate control tools for supervision and strengthening audit activities. The government has taken substantial and effective measures to ensure accountability and protection of victims, and will continue to use all its means to ensure that such abuses do not occur. Honourable Congressman, You know as well as I do that the case is being prosecuted. After all, the D.A. has extended the time limit for the investigation, which means that the investigation has not been completed, the first step of accountability and the determination of criminal liability in the investigation continues to date. As a result of this investigation, the investigating authority will decide who is being prosecuted and, following the indictment proposal, the prosecution will press charges against those who committed this financial crime. So, once again, I can only say that your unfounded accusation is rejected. The government has done everything in its power to ensure that the victims of this series of financial crimes receive their compensation and that the government does everything in its power, of course the government will do everything in its power to ensure that this investigation is successful. The investigation is, of course, supervised by the independent prosecutor's office, and the prosecution then decides to prosecute. I ask you, too, and I ask all Members of Parliament, to wait for the D.A.'s decision, and then it's up to the court. The accountability is therefore underway, and I would also ask the victims to monitor the events. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-16	The last of the speeches before today's agenda will be Mr Szilárd Németh, on behalf of the Fidesz. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2015-09-29-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, By midnight yesterday, a total of 280 720 illegal immigrants arrived in our country this year. On the Croatian border 76,576, while on the Serbian border 203,153 crossed the green border. Yesterday 5335, 5224 at the Croatian border and 111 at the Serbian border. This weekend, when the arrival of illegal immigrants in Hungary reached an absolute peak, with some Croatian help at the Croatian border 23 591 and 636 at the Serbian border. It is clear from these figures that the intention of illegal immigrants to cross the border has shifted towards the Croatian-Hungarian border, since 97-98 percent of border crossings are taking place here, while 2-3 percent of the Serbian-Hungarian border. [[9.50]] This is thanks to the fact that, in February, we decided to invite Hungarian people to social dialogue in this very important national case in the framework of a national consultation and to ask their opinion. We are all alone in the European Union with a strong opinion base that 1.1 million people have expressed, and by giving their name and address to their opinion, and in this they have asked us to protect the country. The government and the Fidesz-KDNP faction in Parliament complied with this request, the request of the Hungarian people, when it decided to close the green border in both technical and legal terms, and in order to ensure that these measures, the management of technical equipment and the enforcement of legal interests, should be able to help stop an illegal migration-like immigrant attack that is affecting our country. That is why we first built the fast-built wire barrier along the Serbian border and the temporary safety barrier, which is why we have decided in Parliament that, in addition to the police, whose basic task is to protect borders, we must involve the army, and that is why we have decided to transform the laws to prevent this attack on us, including the criminal code, which considers the destruction, avoidance, overcoming, illegal crossing the green border to be a category of crime, and much more stringent treatment of trafficking gangs. This is how we decided to give the Szeged District Court jurisdiction in these immigration matters. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in addition to the police, we have been able to include the army, the Hungarian Defence Forces, in these tasks, in addition to the formation and staffing of the new border guard directorate of the police. Here I would like to thank both the police, the soldiers, the disaster protectors, the officials, the prison staff, and even the prisoners, as well as the civilians, the charities who are involved in this task. Today, in this Parliament, we will continue to change the laws that give us the authority to stop by legal means at the Croatian-Hungarian border, to create a legal border lock, and to sanction those who violate the laws of our country and of the European Union. Today, we will decide on this issue. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we could have made a decision a long time ago, but so far the representatives of the Hungarian left have not voted in favour of any related bill, and no bill has allowed us to do our job in a special procedure as quickly as possible. They can do it today. [[It's constant noise.]] Although I think it's very unlikely. I would like to emphasise once again that people have decided that the borders of this country, our country, must be protected, so I would like to ask everyone that this bill [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which lies in front of us, please vote in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-29-18	In response, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor.
u2015-09-29-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government implements the decision of the people, the government protects Hungary, the government protects Hungary's borders. We did this for the first time at the Hungarian-Serbian border, as a result of which we created the triple protection on 15 September: physical protection through the creation of the technical lock and the temporary safety barrier; legal protection through the adoption of the strict laws mentioned by the Member; and the protection of the living force, according to which we established border hunting units within the framework of the Standing Police departments, and the condition that the Hungarian Defence Office can also contribute to the protection of the Hungarian border. As a result, we can say that the figures show that the number of illegal migrants arriving at the Hungarian-Serbian border has decreased to 2 percent compared to the previous figures, and this pressure has shifted to the Hungarian-Croatian border section. The main reason for this is that the security lock is working effectively at the Hungarian-Serbian border, and the threefold protection and the long-term reasons for this are that Greece does not protect the Schengen borders, and the last Council of Europe meeting has failed to adopt rules to achieve a common Greek border surveillance. Dear Parliament, In this situation, the government also ordered the crisis caused by mass immigration to the territory of Baranya, Somogy, Zala and Vas counties on 18 September, and also started the Hungarian-Croatian border section [[It's heavy noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] the construction of protection similar to the Serbian border section. This is important in order to ensure physical protection, together with the imposition of a crisis, and as a result of physical protection, living protection and legal protection, we can also prevent anyone from entering Hungary illegally on the green border at the Hungarian-Croatian border. What the honourable Member has said is Parliament's duty to ensure that this system works effectively and effectively, because today we will decide on T/6244. A proposal for a regulation allowing the Court of Justice and the General Court of Szeged and the Administrative and Labour Court to be defined with the exclusive competence of the departments concerned by the crisis, but the continuation of this exclusive competence is unreasonable due to the long distances due to the further extension of the crisis situation, and the proposal therefore includes the appointment of additional courts capable of carrying out proceedings. I, too, ask the Honourable Parliament to vote in favour of the adoption of this very important bill, as this can also contribute to ensuring full protection in the Hungarian-Croatian border section, and we can fulfill the promise to protect Hungary, the Hungarian borders. Dear Parliament, I, too, would like to take this opportunity to thank you. [[It's heavy noise. The president's gonna ring the bell again.]] the Hungarian police, border police, defence, Immigration and Nationality Office and the enforcement of prisons, working on the border and building protection. Their sacrificial work can also help Hungary, the Hungarian people, to live safely. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-29-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-09-29-21	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Késző, independent; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Varju, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Péter Csizi, Fidesz; György Szilágyi, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik.
u2015-09-29-22	Dear House, I declare that the Group of the Fidesz Group, by adding the necessary signatures, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the National Assembly initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the T/6353 on the amendment of certain insurance-related laws in the context of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. for the purpose of the discussion of this proposal. This presentation is available on the website. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. At yesterday's meeting of the House Committee, a consensus was reached on T/6353. on the issue of a proposal to be dealt with by way of derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to adopt T/6353 on the amendment of certain insurance legislation in the context of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place today. The proposal for a derogation from the house rule was proposed by T/6353/1. You can get to know him on the website. [[10.00]] Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in order to derogate from the house rules, the Members present still need a fourth fifth support. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote. Sándor Lezsák indicates that his voting machine is not working.]] I note that the proposal was adopted by 155 votes to two, with one abstention. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of submitting an amendment to the adopted house rule by 11 a.m. today. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group suggested that T/6290, which included amending the budget, should be used. Legislative proposal No 6 and list of Ministries T/6291. The joint general debate on the legislative proposal T/6244 on the competence of the courts at today's sitting. Following the discussion of the Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, this should begin and continue until the end of the meeting of the Legislative Committee. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the agenda of the meeting be added to the T/6353 amendment of the legislation on insurance matters. by negotiating a number of proposals, so that the consolidated debate of the bill takes place on this day, immediately after the meeting of the Legislative Committee has been concluded. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands as well. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that if, at today's meeting, T/6290, which contains changes to the budget, is proposed. Legislative proposal No 6 and list of Ministries T/6291. The joint general debate of the legislative proposal No.3 does not end until the meeting of the Legislative Committee is completed, so T/6353, which contains amendments to the legislation on insurance matters, will continue and conclude the joint general debate on the legislative proposals. It shall take place after the final vote of bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also suggested that, at today's meeting, T/6244, which contains jurisdiction in the courts, should be used. Bill No. 3 and Amendment of Insurance Act No. T/6353. T/6353, which contains amendments to the insurance legislation, to decide on the summary amendment proposal and to the final vote. Following a consolidated discussion of the legislative proposal No 1315 at the earliest. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. The Commission's reports on the competence of certain courts in civil and criminal matters and the final amendment proposal follow up. T/6244 submitted by MEPs Bence Tuzson, Imre Vas Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee. And if my fellow Members wish to leave the Chamber, I ask for quiet and very quick departure. Here you go, Congressman. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-09-29-23	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 September 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the competence of certain courts in civil and criminal matters, T/6244. Legislative proposal No 10/2014 on certain house regulations, which the Committee shall adopt in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. The Court held an urgent hearing on the basis of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report, with 27 votes in favour, with 7 abstentions, without voting against. [[Noise. Several Members speak standing and several leave the meeting room.]] The summarised amendment contains the amendment tabled by the Judicial Committee and the codification amendments made by the Legislative Committee. This bill complements the more effective protection of Hungary's state borders [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and related to the management of mass immigration...
u2015-09-29-24	Congressman, give me a moment. We'll wait, I don't want to bother the tired congressmen, ladies and gentlemen. Give me a moment, please. [[A moment's pause.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-29-25	Thank you, Mr. President. So this bill complements the bill on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the better protection of Hungary's state border and the management of mass immigration. As we can see, the migration situation is now not only on the Serbian border, but also on the Croatian border, which means that the criminal proceedings relating to the illegal crossing of the border seal, the destruction of the border seal and the obstruction of the construction work on the border seal will also apply to the Croatian border section. The pressure on the institutions has also become significant from the perspective of the courts to the extent that the bill requires other courts to regulate the jurisdiction of other sections of the border. On the one hand, the bill provides for a number of amendments to Annex III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. Law 326 It intends to amend paragraph 14 of paragraph 14. The intention of the proposal is to divide the workload between several courts, and it is also of great importance that the place of assessment is better adapted to the applicant's possible place of residence. The main rule, the Szeged Administrative Court, is to remove three counties from its jurisdiction: Baranya, Zala and Somogy counties, and divide these three counties between two administrative and labour courts. Zala and Somogy County are listed at the Zalaegerszeg Administrative and Labour Court, Baranya County, Pécs. At the same time, the proposal makes an additional exception for Somogy County for a more proportionate distribution of cases and therefore lists Barcs in Somogy County as the Pécs Administrative and Labour Court. Another direction of the bill is the 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings. Act, which will also be amended. Here, in view of the evolution of the migration situation, the government has also ordered the crisis caused by mass immigration as an important measure in the areas of Baranya County, Somogy County, Zala County and Vas County. However, on the basis of the current rules of the Criminal Procedure Act adopted a few weeks ago, the Court of Justice of Szeged and the General Court of Szeged are currently solely competent to assess the offences committed in connection with the border closure, irrespective of where they were committed. As regards the departments concerned by the crisis, maintaining the exclusive competence of the Szeged District Court and the General Court is not justified because of the long distances and the reduced effectiveness of implementation, and the proposal therefore includes the designation of courts capable of carrying out proceedings. Under the new rules, the District Court of Zalaegerszeg and the General Court in Somogy County, with the exception of the Barcs region, and the District Court of Pécs and the General Court of Zalaegerszeg County, including the Barcs area from Somogy County, will be competent. In the case of crimes committed elsewhere, the District Court and the General Court of Szeged shall continue to be competent. Briefly explaining the purpose of the regulation, we believe that the provisions contained in this amendment aim, on the one hand, to provide a rapid and effective solution to the problem that has recently been caused by pressure on courts and authorities. In view of the fact that a large proportion of cases are specific, as they require special preparedness, it is of particular importance to state which court acts in the case in question. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support T/6244. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Pigeon. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. Congressman Tuzson Bence is preparing. You have the floor. [[Noise.]]
u2015-09-29-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We have already explained in detail in the debate why this bill is important and, accordingly, we will also ask for the support of honourable Members for this bill. [[10.10]] It is important that the borders of the country can be protected and that the entire line of defence can stand. Accordingly, a number of committees have discussed this amendment proposal and some technical clarifications have been made in the context of the amending proposal by the Legislative Committee, which we have supported as rapporteurs, because we believe that this was an important proposal to improve the legislation, and therefore a single proposal can now be made to address the problem that has arisen at the Croatian border as a result of the migration situation and to address the legal problem that could arise by bringing about judicial redress procedures or criminal proceedings. This bill is about the effective, rapid management of this, and accordingly I call on the fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-29-28	Thank you. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Congressman Bence Tuzson, the author, has used 1 minute 10 seconds from his time frame for 10 minutes, left 8 minutes 50 seconds at the end to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-09-29-29	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Members, The government supports the bill, and I ask that Parliament vote for it in the final vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. That's what you can see on the screen. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Member, the Head of the Group, András Schiffer.
u2015-09-29-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the last week, no correction has been made to this bill, which would fundamentally change the nature of the fact that it is only a question of resolving court jurisdiction rules. The question remains open: if the wind changes and foreign policy changes, what will become of the Slovenian border in Vas County, what will happen if asylum seekers also arrive from Romania, what will happen if the sky does not give, a wave of refugees will start from Ukraine. This procedure, this jurisdiction rule, does not deal with these unforeseen situations at all. I also said in the general debate that procedural rules, rules on jurisdiction of courts, cannot be resolved and resolved from crisis to crisis. It is necessary to establish such rules in such a way that they are time-proof, precisely crisis-resistant. In this case, we have the hope that judges in the given courts will indeed be able to assess these special rules with sufficient preparedness. On the other hand, any such yanking of court jurisdiction rules in line with a given political situation is causing serious damage to the entire judiciary in the long term, and I therefore think it would be best if our fellow Member Mr Tuzson withdraws this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2015-09-29-32	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-09-29-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, András Schiffer and I could even agree on the professional charge of his contribution. Indeed, we also believe that the proposal is not good professionally. It is not good professionally, because it does not provide a general solution, but in this situation we must support it, since there is an emergency situation, most of the immigrants in our country are in the order of hundreds of thousands, who are not refugees, but who are either looking for a better life or, in worse cases, for a terrorist target in the European Union, Hungary, often targeting Germany, but this does not fill our country with joy that many people just want to pass through it. So the proposal is, of course, not good professionally, it should have been a general rule. A general rule that will solve these problems of competence for the future, because what if tomorrow, or a week from now, or a month from now, or six months from now, the problem will have to come from Ukraine, there will have to be a border lock. Here in the debate the representatives of the government and the authors said that the situation is tied to the border lock, because it is the destruction and crossing of the border lock that is punishable, and thus, if, let's say, suddenly someone comes in from Ukraine, it will not be applicable there. But what if that's where the government's building a fence? After all, he should build a fence if the number of invaders were to increase significantly elsewhere, and then another law would have to be brought before the Parliament, and it would have to be modified so that the competent courts could proceed at our eastern border ends, and, say, in the event of an intrusion from Ukraine, Szeged would not have to, say, act. We can also see that it is more difficult to amend the law than it is in the courts to send judges on the burden of different judges, if appropriate, especially if the Parliament or the Government provides adequate protection to the courts. Nevertheless - and we would have been interested in such a solution proposal - we can also see, as I said, that there is a problem, there is a problem at the ends, and the haste on the part of the government and the presenters is trying to address a real problem. So in this situation, we cannot play primadonna, and we cannot reject the proposal only on the basis of professional arguments, it is quite clear that the voters do not expect us to do so. But we call to the attention of the government and the authors that if this problem is solved, then we expect a proposal to put us on the table, which will settle the situation in the long term, and prepare for the proper preparation of justice for these situations in the future, whether in a week or in years' time. We also see that the judges in Szeged work day and night, Saturday and Sunday. So we do not want to spot them either, because if we do not accept this bill, then these cases will continue to belong to the District Court of Szeged and the Szeged Tribunal, either by sending them from the Croatian-Hungarian border, because they are the exclusive jurisdiction in the present situation and we want to avoid this situation. So you can't hide behind nice slogans in Parliament and expect these judges to work on Saturdays and Sundays, then work 24 hours on weekends. Whoever does this, I believe that he is insensitive not only to Hungary's problems, but also to the work of the courts. By the way, from this place I would like to thank the judges who served there for their dedicated work and for serving the country on Saturday-Sunday and acting on these matters. I must also say, and for the government, this is also a proposal for the future, which we have already made here in Parliament - and please consider our vote in favour, obviously, together with what we have said and what we are proposing - we have said that without force, the fence itself is worthless. That's proven. Since then, it has been proven that border protection cannot be achieved without the use of the defence. And by the way, we told you, and not today, not yesterday, but months ago, that without the establishment of an independent border guard, we would not be able to protect the borders properly. The police and the military basically perform other tasks, and I also said in the general debate that... [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Yes, we voted in favour, in response to András Schiffer, because there is no independent border guard yet, so the military's deployment means mobilizing a new force. But I also said in the general debate that it was necessary to see who spoke as Prime Minister's Chief Advisor and took a lion's share in border protection. This was György Bakondi, who served as a border guard. So it is not a policeman or a soldier who shares advice and organizes border protection, but one of the leaders of the still existing border guard, which is still functioning, who is also mobilized in this situation. This proves, and you will prove, that these people, this expertise - and I do not want to sharpen people here, of course - do need border guards' expertise, we do need to use it to protect borders, we need to reinstate border guards. You don't have to be a lawyer, laymen can see that while the police's tasks are mainly internal defense tasks, the police are focused mainly on investigations and law enforcement tasks, a completely different level of duty than the defense, which is intended to prevent external armed attacks in the first place. That's what the Homelanders are most trained for. [[10.20]] Compared to this, border protection and border protection are the branches where the border is not necessarily to be protected from armed forces or armed attack, but, unfortunately, from unarmed people arriving in a mass, but unfortunately, to be classified as an attack, or by former chiefs of staff in the neighbouring countries as a certain kind of attack; yes, my fellow Member Schiffer, because professional views are divided in terms of the age, but a lot of people say that attacking a country is not only possible by armed forces, but that it is only partially, in some cases, with a very small part refugee status, otherwise armed, people with military experience, who are largely at a time of war, that if they start to reach the borders of a country, and that country is also unable to act against the invasion of these people can be regarded as a certain kind of attack, especially because there are many people who have been proven to be in contact with terrorist organisations, how can I say, according to Western secret services. When this will turn into a major tragedy, when these people will carry out terrorist activities in the West or even in the territory of Hungary, we do not know that. We hope that it will not, but unfortunately trust is not enough in this case, Hungary's borders must be protected. It is a stand-alone border guard that can properly secure positions that would not have required the border guards to be absorbed into the police, but nevertheless, this proposal can provide a solution at the moment, but we ask that this situation be resolved in the long term, and that we settle the jurisdiction of the courts with a general rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz.
u2015-09-29-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I believe that opposition speakers did not, or could doubt, the fact that the government is using the instrument of triple protection, i.e. technical protection, personal protection and legal protection. In this regard, what the proportions are, I believe, must always be adapted to the possibility. Nor should a situation create a panic-like atmosphere, something like putting the country at risk in a way that requires some kind of internal mobilization force or creating a situation that reacts late to certain events. There is something to be seen clearly: immigrants, migrants, who call them, who go from somewhere far away, from the Middle East, do not start off completely unprepared. They do not go prepared, according to my conviction, because they are kept together by some mysterious conspiracy, directing them, rather, because we all go on a simple journey abroad. They plan the path that leads to the goal they want. This path is designed to be changed as we go. You can see that. The main lines are there, but how to enter a country within this, I can't call the crossing of the green border other than the entry, well, how this happens and where it happens, it's decided potentially. I think that when the government believes that protection should always be concentrated and strongly displayed in the place where it appears and wishes to appear, of course, in advance, that is correct. Overshooting would mean an entirely different way of overreacting. Are there legal concerns, or are there professional concerns about the proposal? This could be debated, but I still think that it is the right thing to do with this proposal. He's focused on this place right now. You could raise a completely different nature - and that is why I asked you to comment - if it happened that there would be a similar legal protection for all sections of the border. Would there no longer be any suspicion in the opposition that judicial relocations or judicial transfers could occur from now on? The government obviously wanted to avoid the appearance of this. In the given situation, where there is a need, legal protection will also appear, and I therefore believe that in this sense, all sides of the opposition can wholeheartedly support this proposal, all its parts strengthen this proposal, strengthen the protection proportionately, try not to use legal tricks, but try to guarantee this reinforcement with a specific legal solution. Nothing really ensures the situation that there will be no change of route on the part of migrants in the following, and this change of route happens to take another border section. My conviction is that we need to think more about it, and I would also like to point it out to the government side, that we must constantly assess whether human matter is sufficient, whether our armed forces are sufficient to ensure this protection on an ongoing basis. This must be kept to a minimum. Certain measures and options need to be considered, to what extent and to what extent existing human material can be used. I am thinking here that our police officers have done quite well in the past period, but there are limits to all performances, and these boundaries are humanly limited, so I think that there is a high level of foresight here, and we need to have a great deal of foresight, and where necessary, we need to take the measures that are constantly ensuring protection. Once again, I confirm that I believe that this proposal and proposal can be well supported by everyone. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-29-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Bárándy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-09-29-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to begin by saying that before anyone, such as Congressman Staudt, enters into such large-scale discussions, we are talking about a simple rule of jurisdiction here, so not generally about the protection of the country, the protection of the border, but simply about which court should act on certain matters, nothing else, that is the essence of this proposal. We agree, I believe, that all the representatives of the opposition parties, that the proposal is professionally wrong, wrong as possible. That is what Mr Schiffer and Mr Group Leader have been talking about, and that is what Gábor Staudt has been talking about, and that is what I am talking about now, and I have also talked about at earlier stages of the debate. There was an opportunity to improve that. We have tabled a proposal that would have put this legislative amendment proposal into professional place. This was also supported by the LMP, which was supported by Jobbik. Unfortunately, the governing parties didn't support it. It was indeed about what several Members before me spoke about, that a general rule of jurisdiction should be established, since we cannot know that once this defence structure has been set up by the government, with which we are absolutely unable to identify ourselves, but if this protection structure has already been established with this legislative environment, then it should generally be said that the border sections where the government can declare the crisis situation, where ad absurdum can even draw a fence, at least generally, the law should ensure that the competent courts or prosecutors who are able to carry out the task in these matters are able to act in general. I do not know why this could not be taken over by the representatives of Fidesz or the nationalist, unless it was because the proposal came from the opposition side. However, I have not heard an appropriate professional argument as to why they do not want to extend the scope of the legislation in cases that may later occur in the context of a simple government decision. I have also said this in the general debate, and I am just pointing out that I do not think it is right to drag Parliament and create laws on the basis of the government's decisions; that is, if the government has a general mandate to declare this crisis in any county, then the legislation will meet according to which counties the government has declared the crisis. [[10.30]] I believe that if we want to remain consistent and bear in mind the unity and integrity of the legal system, by the way, in order to achieve the same objective that the authors wish to achieve with this law, then all counties, i.e. all counties in which the government can declare a crisis situation, could be allowed to have such jurisdiction rules. Obviously, since this is a special case, we can only talk about the border counties, let us say that Budapest is not worth talking about in this respect. It is also the duty of the Parliament, the legislator, to protect the legal system as such, to try to guarantee its integrity and stability. This proposal is facing this hopeful ambition. I mean, once again, we have tried to put a professional proposal on the table that would have had no impact on the legislative objective that the authors have set, only, as many of us have said, would have, professionally rightly, laid down a general rule of competence rather than a repeated hasty legislation. Therefore, since the authors and the governing parties do not support our proposal at committee meetings or now, we will not support the entire bill for professional reasons if it is voted down. I would like to make one point here in closing: that we do not support it is a professional and principled resolution. However, the majority of the ruling parties still have the power to support, vote, and pass this proposal if they want to. Two: the protection of the country and its effectiveness are not affected in any way or in any way, as the proceedings can be conducted easily even within the jurisdiction of a court. There are also many examples of this in the Hungarian legal system, namely that a court is competent in certain matters throughout the country. Of course, the practicality is, I say once again, that more courts should be competent, but this would require a general rule. In other words, the rejection of this proposal will in no way affect the intensity and effectiveness of the country's external protection. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-29-38	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. Mr András Schiffer asked for the floor again. Here's your word.
u2015-09-29-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to the words of my fellow Member Staudt. You've been very clear about the division of duties between the military and the police, based on the Fundamental Law. You are absolutely right, my fellow Member Staudt, that the fundamental constitutional task of the defence is border defence and the police are border police. This is precisely the reason why, as opposed to Jobbik, we have not voted in favour of a package of laws that allows the Hungarian Defence Forces to be used for law enforcement tasks, simply because they are not trained for this in Hungary. You are also right that it was a crime to eliminate the border guard before 2010, and we need an independent border guard. But that's what we should be talking about. Under the current constitutional and training conditions, the defence cannot perform police duties. In addition to what Gergely Bárándy has just said, the problem remains that, according to current events that vary from week to week, the parliamentary majority is dragging the jurisdiction rules of the courts. I would point out that it would not only be worthwhile to have a short geography lesson here from the point of view of the border stages that may still be expected in the coming weeks or months, but, as I said in the general debate, there may be other crisis situations that make certain kinds of judicial proceedings typical in a county or region. Then will Congressman Tuzson come again and demand exclusive jurisdiction for a certain crisis in a certain county? It doesn't work that way. Where appropriate, those additional capacities shall be provided to a given county court. A specific framework can be allocated to this in the budget of the National Court of Justice if, for an unforeseen reason, there is an extra burden on specific types of cases. However, rules of competence cannot be pulled on the basis of a political situation that varies from week to week, and I would like to confirm once again, and our fundamental debate was also two weeks ago that, if we agree that the defence is not trained for police tasks and not for police tasks, police tasks cannot be required either. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-29-40	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the opportunity to reciprocate in almost 40 seconds.
u2015-09-29-41	Thank you, Mr President, very briefly. I gave you the professional arguments. However, I do not agree that border protection is not difficult if we do not adopt this law, since the Szeged District Court, the Szeged Tribunal, will also have cases on the Croatian border. So this makes it harder to protect the border. Besides, I have to say that people here in Parliament are less interested in a situation like this in a lawyer's professional-dogmatics tantrum. This is important, it must be resolved, but not now and not in a situation where hundreds of thousands of people are trying to enter the Hungarian border. Thank you.
u2015-09-29-42	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[This is Dr. Gergely Bárándy.]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-09-29-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly, in the same sentence, Mr Staudt spoke. Obviously, the congressman knows the sentence, and it is not a positive quote that the end justifies the means. That's what you're talking about, and I can't agree with that. Thank you. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Positive neither elegance! That's what he said... interrogations from the MSZP benches, including, "Never said anything like that."]]
u2015-09-29-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. I don't see any other speakers, except yelling. [[Noise. He's jogging the bell.]] You'll continue in the hallway, Congressmen. I don't see any other speakers. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Tuzson Bence says yes.]] Congressman Tuzson Bence says yes. You have the floor in eight minutes and 50 seconds.
u2015-09-29-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond briefly to a few things so that we do not repeat the general debate on this bill as a whole. Indeed, the essence of this bill is to address a situation, a problem, since there was a particular situation at the Hungarian borders, first at the Serbian border and then at the Croatian border. It can be said that it is worth regulating the different cases in general, this is indeed true in general and it is good if we can act in this way, but there are situations that require a quick and effective solution. Accordingly, it is clearly necessary to prepare and technically prepare for the creation of legislation that can be applied, i.e. that legislation can be properly applied. Accordingly, the legislation should be applied in such a way that the points at which courts are established are technically operational, whether the Internet connection or the energy supply, which in such cases causes problems. Accordingly, it is not possible to create only a general authority, because at present the system is not prepared for the fact that if we adopt such legislation tomorrow, a particularly high load will appear somewhere, and the Hungarian court system will be able to provide it in some form. This is not just about personal conditions, but about technical conditions, ranging from multilingual interpretation to continuous online contact, through this energy supply. Accordingly, I think that when we see that in the future there will be this pressure somewhere, it is not just that we are assigning new courts, because there are two courts in Szeged, which has a general competence in this regard, if we create special powers in relation to this, then we must also be able to ensure the technical conditions of that. These are conditions which cannot necessarily be created or created overnight. Accordingly, if such courts were established in other parts of the country, the technical conditions would not be able to follow the entry into force of the legislation quickly enough and it would therefore be premature to establish such legislation. So the legislation must always be adapted to life. That's what this is all about. Accordingly, given the increasing pressure on the Croatian border, these laws will soon have to be applied, since once the points at which entry migrants are able to submit their different applications are established, judicial proceedings should also be able to start, as the part of the appeal is part of the legal proceedings. [[10.40]] The same is true of criminal proceedings: if the border is fully closed, then these crimes will also take place here. And the law that we Members of Parliament have made here is important for us to be able to enforce, and that is what this draft legislation serves. I would therefore ask my fellow Members to support this legislation as a proposal and to contribute to ensuring that it comes into force as soon as possible and that we are able to protect the Hungarian borders effectively and effectively. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Today's decisions are expected to take place after 1:15 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows that Act C of 2014 amending Act C on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will be T/6290. Bill No. No. 2 and the 2014 list of Ministrys of Hungary XX. Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. T/6291. Start a joint general debate on a legislative proposal with a serial number. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-09-29-47	[[No sound.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, As Mr. President said...
u2015-09-29-48	Be kind to the sound. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács takes it out and then puts his representative card back in the machine.]] Card, yeah. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Credit card!]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Accept only the card recognized by the Banking Association! Dr. Zoltán Kovács' name appears on the display.]]
u2015-09-29-49	I'd like to start again. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I see the card has caused excitement for some of my fellow Members, but it was inside, the system didn't work. XX of 2014 on the list of ministries in Hungary Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. A bill amending the law is intended to set up a cabinet of prime ministers as a ministry. Article 17 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary states that the list of ministries is provided for by law. Therefore, if the Prime Minister decides to set up a new Ministry in order to organise the work, we must ask the Parliament's approval to establish it. The Government is free from the Fundamental Law, as set out in its statement of reasons, and according to the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Head of the Ministry to be established will be required to provide for the tasks and powers of the Government in its original legislative decree. In the context of the establishment of the new Ministry, it is also necessary to amend Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015. Its explicit aim is to change the order of chapters under the government's control, thus creating the cabinet chapter of the Prime Minister. The government is CXCV 2011 on public finances. Law 33 The amount of the appropriations may be determined by means of a transfer pursuant to paragraph 1 (paragraph 1). Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The creation of the new Ministry is not a unique practice in Europe, such as the decision of the current Bavarian Prime Minister in Bavaria to establish, reorganize or terminate the chancellor's personal and professional structure. Today, the Bavarian Prime Minister's Chancellery has two heads of state minister. The free organisation of the government is a right that has been due to all governments since May 1990, and we cannot mention a case here in Parliament where the government's proposals for organisation have not been supported by Parliament. That is why I ask the honourable Members of this House to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gulyás Gergely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-09-29-51	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The proposal, consisting of two legislative proposals before Parliament, but amendments to more laws, is clear: János Lázár Prime Minister's Office's presentation establishes the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister in the rank of ministry, and therefore, as a separate chapter, it is necessary to amend the central budget, so the adoption of the law creates the technical conditions for the new Ministry to have its own budget. The most important question is that, in part, the State Secretary of the National Expozet concerned whether this debate is at all here. And because of the current legislation of the Hungarian legal system, the answer is, of course, yes, because it also states on behalf of the Act on the Listing of Ministries that Parliament can amend only this level of legislation, and therefore we must also discuss in Parliament's debate what the Government's intention to establish an internal organisation covers, whether it is correct or incorrect. However, in my opinion, this would not otherwise be in the Parliament, and I believe that within the constitutional framework, the freedom of organisation of the government could or should also mean - in this sense, of course, it can be regarded as self-critic after five years of governance - so that the government can define the structure of the ministry, of course, given the constitutional barriers that are known to all of us. The next question is how, in the previous period, the opposition has contributed to the government's organisation plans, and I can say that, although the internal political climate was not any better in 2006, even at the time of the amendment of the Constitution, even if we did not support the position of State Secretary for Administration, the opposition was able to support it in the sense that our clear opinion in this case was that the government had the right to establish the structure of the country itself. I believe that we now have all the experience of that four-year period before us today, and we can clearly and clearly say that it was a wrong decision and that it did not work to end the office of State Secretary for Public Administration, so we restored it in 2010 and that there were many changes in the then ministerial structure, such as the decision that the Ministry of Justice and Police was clearly wrong and had a negative impact on violence in the autumn of 2006, but we do not think that the opposition position at that time was not correct, that the freedom of government to organise should not be influenced in any sense by the opposition. If one acquires the right to govern the country in democratic elections, then it is primarily the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the political community in which he wishes to do so. Yet, while we are at it, it is worth discussing international practice. When we look at international practice, we see that, not only does it conflict with the current change intention, but rather - we say - this intention to change fits with international practice. The background apparatus of the British Prime Minister consists of a dual structure, part of a Prime Minister's office and part of the Cabinet Office. Both have a key role to play in the governance of the Prime Minister from the second half of the 20th century. [[10.50]] In 1916 the Cabinet Office was founded in Great Britain, then the independent Prime Minister's Office was established. The Cabinet Office now employs 11 major leaders, such as a deputy prime minister. The Minister of the Cabinet Office is the second Deputy Minister of Finance and the Minister of Government and Civil Society is also working within the framework of this office. The Prime Minister's office in England also has a serious tradition. He can be regarded as the head of the office, or it can be said that he has traditionally been the head of the British public service until 2012. The office of Chief of Staff, who holds an important position through the organisational and staff powers of the Prime Minister's office, is practically one of the most important ministerial positions in the United Kingdom. The newspaper Mirror called the holder of the position the most powerful unelected man in the United Kingdom. In Germany, there is no dual structure like England, but here, Chancellor Konrad Adenauer set up the chancellorship and the separate federal press office on the day after his election, on 16 September 1949, so a larger office was established that included the press and information office, the internal affairs and foreign affairs department, and the latter included staff, organization, protocol and consular duties. From then on, the Chancellor's own apparatus was made up of the Chancellor and the Press Office. This double structure has remained, by the way, to this day. In France, the Prime Minister is assisted by a fairly large apparatus for the implementation of government decisions. The central core of this is the government office, the government's secretary-general with a different name, while the other prominent background apparatus of the Prime Minister's office is the Prime Minister's cabinet. The main task of the General Secretariat of the Government is the preparation of government meetings, the drafting and coordination of draft laws and regulations of the Government, and the coordination of the activities of the ministries. The office was led by a secretary-general, which was established in the Fourth Republic in 1946, but the Fifth Republic also maintained its institution. The Secretary-General not only prepares and participates in government meetings. He prepares the Prime Minister's decisions, and gives the government's members the heads of state and the Prime Minister's instructions along with his advice. The Prime Minister's Cabinet plays a key role in the field of political coordination and information consultation in France, as opposed to the Government Office, which is more responsible for preparing administrative administration and government work. We can therefore say - whether French or English or somewhat even German - that the change that is now taking place is also in line with international practice. But I would like to emphasise once again, I think that, although the current legislation provides for legislation in this regard, we probably cannot change that. I wish all future governments that their biggest problem should be to legislate on the structure of the government, on the list of ministries. However, we believe that this issue of organisation, which we can now discuss in front of the democratic public in Parliament, is basically part of the establishment of the internal structure of the government, so it is primarily the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the Government. But, of course, more debate is better in all democracies than less, so there is an opportunity to discuss this bill here before the Parliament. I would also ask the pro-government and opposition representatives to support these amendments, while respecting the principle of prime minister and government responsibility for the formation of government structures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-52	Thank you, Vice President Gulyás Gergely. The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position within the given 30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-09-29-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, as my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás said, opposition parties usually give the government, if you will, freedom of government and support the proposals on government transformation. For the record, that wasn't always the case. My colleague Gergely Gulyás's memory seems to be a little incomplete, because in 2008 you did not support the transformation of the Socialist Government as opposition representatives, and in many cases you abstained on this. So in relation to the principle that you would now be called to account for in this opposition, you have not been consistent, and in this respect we will not be. We will not support - it has been called in many ways, I would say - the introduction of the position of the minister around the person of the great wise leader or the establishment of the institution of the Minister of Propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been used by the government to try to look for various international examples and self-confirmation for its own plan if there is no other rational argument. We have been used to this in the process of constitutionalization, when one element was taken out of the constitution of an EU country, and it was transcended, in a true, systemistic way, into the Hungarian constitution, the Fundamental Law or one of the fundamental laws, and argued that this was the case in Germany or the United Kingdom. The only problem, my fellow Members, is that there are two major problems with this. One: the process does not look like you're looking at international standards, international standards and solutions, and then you're trying to put them into the Hungarian legal system in a way that fits the system, but you're trying to figure something out, and you're looking for a similar example that stands up to it at international level. That's one of the problems. The other problem is what I said then and I tell you now: to highlight one element from a constitutional system and bring it into Hungary, and then to highlight another element of public law from another country, to bring it into Hungary, and then to keep a few rules that have been established as a result of the development of domestic law, which is nothing but a huge messy and controversial legal system. It's like I told you before: surely you know the what kind of bird is this? A tale entitled "The Duck Loved the Peacock's Beautiful Pen, the long leg of the Gem, and traded them with its own, and at the end a torso was created. Well, this is also the case in the Hungarian legal system, when I highlight some elements from certain coherent constitutional systems and transfer them to the Hungarian. Speaking of which, for example, I would like to say to you, my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás, who has argued for the UK legal system for such a long time, that there, for example, I would like to say to you, my fellow Members, that the only minister who has been elected is the Member of Parliament. Compared to this, if you wish to take over the United Kingdom's system, you must release the ministers who are not representatives of the Hungarian Parliament today, and we will consistently take over certain regulations from the English legal system. But there is no need to say the difference between the Hungarian continental legal traditions and the Anglo-Saxon legal traditions. So when my fellow Member Gulyás argues what this looks like in England, I can counter this. But we could also list the legal systems and government systems of other states, none of which look exactly like Hungarian, so I think that arguing with this is unnecessary and does not lead to purpose. The fact is, fellow Members, that you were not motivated by the excellent results of English, German, Spanish or French law, but by the fact that János Lázár and Antal Rogán did not want to work together. This argument probably did not appear either in Spain or in Germany, because these two gentlemen are political in Hungary. Therefore, you were not thinking of a simple Secretary of State or another solution, let us say, within the framework of the Prime Minister's Office, but of an independent legal solution, an independent ministry. [[11.00]] Minister Lazarus said that to be granted powers, he should also be given responsibility, political responsibility. In other words, he made it up, and he doesn't need him to hold his head and take on the political consequences because of Antal Rogán's possible political ruckus, so he should be a self-minister. That was the motivation, honourable Members. I think that creating a ministry is more than a mistake. Of course, we will never dispute who will be on the government, that the government has the opportunity to shape the governance structure as he thinks. We will also not dispute that, even within a government period, you have the right to transform the system and structure of ministries. But these should be structural changes and not re-adapted legislation. 'Cause there's nothing else here. This is about Antal Rogán's work, his loyalty, the Prime Minister wants to thank him, give him a position as a minister, or political powers like his position as a minister, and you are looking for a solution. Since John Lazarus does not accept him, another ministry will be established. This is therefore the structural problem, which is why we will certainly not be able to support this amending proposal. Maybe even a thought about the structure. Ladies and gentlemen, professional ministries are slowly becoming redundant. There was such an amazing power in the hands of the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, which, by the way, I do not say is unprecedented, but very few examples can be found throughout Europe. Now I'm arguing with that. We are now creating another ministry, not just a minister, not just a chief of staff, a cabinet manager, not just a minister without a wallet, but a ministry with an apparatus, which is also tied to the Prime Minister's personal circles. This, my fellow Members, makes no sense, and it further enhances centralisation. What they want with this ministry or what they want to transfer to this minister's authority is completely unsupportable and unacceptable. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, if the press does not deceive me, but I would be happy to see that this will be refuted by my fellow Members, one of the main tasks of this minister will be to manage the government's propaganda machine. Propaganda ministers are customary in dictatorship, not democracy. The other main task, as I said, is to secure the ministerial position around the person of the great wise leader. This too, I understand, is customary in monarchies, in non-democratic relations. Therefore, we cannot support this bill either from a structural point of view or for other reasons. We have tabled a single amendment, honourable Members, because there will be a lack of coherence in the law if the bill before us is adopted without this amendment. What I can say is that if you are already carrying out such unsupportable and personalised legislation, at least do so by submitting a proposal to this House that meets the codification criteria. And if you do not know that, we, as opposition representatives, will be happy to offer you professional assistance. This is what we have now done with the amendment proposal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-29-54	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-09-29-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hold in my hands the amendment of the Act on Hungary's central budget for 2015, which is two lines:. The Prime Minister's Cabinet Office is added to paragraph 1 (21) of Annex C of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015. This is what the proposal for a amending budget is all about. It can be seen that this is the most important amendment for the Fidesz government today, a Bianko gives Antal Rogán a check to further increase the division with taxpayers' money as the new Minister of Propaganda for National Cooperation, further abuse the critics of the system, continue to incite hatred, and fill the media empire of Árpád Habony and Andy Vajna with tax-paying money. This proposal, as my fellow Member mentioned earlier, is one of the stages of two young Fidesz Turkish battles, fighting for money, fighting for power, of course, for our money. And the great leader smiles, shares himself, so that he can rule. The picantria of the case is that this proposal was put forward by Minister János Lázár. That is what you are asking for our support, fellow Members. Of course, I have no doubt that you, as good party soldiers, will support this. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that Hungary is run by a normal government today. Government transformation is being discussed by Parliament, and the establishment and establishment of a new ministry or ministries is on the agenda. I imagine that in a country run by a normal government, they are not creating a propagandaistry, but, for example, a Ministry of Health, and I would like to say that they are not currently a state secretary in charge of this sector. They don't give a blank cheque to this Ministry, but a hundred billion for public media, ten billion for stadium development, the Hungarian National Bank painting and castle. For example, billions of the profits paid instead of buying luxuries and pianos are allocated to the wages of health workers, shortlists of surgeries, reduction of hospital debt or support for ambulance activities. I imagine that in such a normal situation, we will create the Ministry of Education, and in the course of budgetary transfers we will transfer billions to the wages of teachers or non-peda workers, higher education workers, or even to chalk, toilet paper or textbooks. In such a normal situation, I imagine that we will create a Ministry of Labour, ensure the conditions of the net minimum wage of HUF 100,000, and transfer billions to its sources. Or we will spend more money on a more efficient public work programme so that hundreds of thousands of families have a chance to step out of their current desperate situation. It could be continued, ladies and gentlemen, because it is quite clear to everyone that almost all other public tasks are more important than the creation and supply of Antal Rogán's propaganda and tax-paying funds. But unfortunately, we have to wake up, here we are in the sad reality. You want to give Bianko a check by the Fidesz majority parliament to Antal Rogán, Hungary's new Minister of Propaganda with the taxpayers' money. Well, we're not gonna give you our support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-29-56	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-09-29-57	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the government he led decided, alive with his right to form an organisation, to transform the ministerial structure in such a way that the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister was set up in an independent form of ministry. This requires Parliament's consent. KDNP therefore supports the 2014 XX on the list of Ministrys of Hungary. Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. T/6291. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Taking into account T/6291. This calls for the creation of a new budget chapter, thus amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015. [[11.10]] On this basis, KDNP supports Act C of 2014 amending Act C on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/6290. a bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, notary, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-09-29-59	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Before I begin my keynote speech, I would like to ask you a serious question, if we could all try to find the answer together. This is where Antal Rogán went. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: He left the room.]] We're all here to work for his own good. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks: He and the Russians.]] We are here to discuss the tasks and budgets of the Ministry to be set up in his behalf, and the rest. He's been in the House so far, but now he's left in English. To tell you the truth, I think that the picture that comes out of this is rather sad, because it will probably continue to be as responsible as he will be in the future, so he will actually take seriously the task that we are going to discuss now, which we are going to talk about. The other issue I would like to address briefly is the freedom of the government to organise, which both the KDNP and the Fidesz lead speakers have said. Yes, it's a big word that the government does have freedom of organisation, but what nuances this image a little, we call it laws, for example, the Fundamental Law, which means that you can't submit a budget bill the way you did in front of us. So, back to Antal Rogán, our missing Antal Rogán and his ministry, and the fact that we are trying to take our task seriously, first of all, I would like to answer the question of why the government is setting up a new ministry. Obviously, there must be some serious reason in the background, because obviously, without serious reasons, the government wouldn't do that. So, obviously, there is an emergency or an emergency or a fashionable word that the government wants to deal with a crisis caused by a government task that hadn't been done before or by a lack of government work. So what is this task, which is included in the general justification? This is how it is said that overall political coordination, i.e. in general, will have to be politically coordinated by the new minister. I mean, in order to get back to my very first question, obviously, it wasn't up to now. In other words, this could mean that there was no political coordination in general. Two: general policy was uncoordinated. Or, most importantly, there was no policy that could have been coordinated at all. Now it seems that this burning issue, this serious problem, will be solved once and for all. So the next question that we need to clarify, which we need to talk about, is how much money this new ministry, which has a very important task, is going to have. Unfortunately, this is not apparent from your bill, despite the fact that, as I mentioned earlier, little things such as the Public Finance Act or not to mention, the Fundamental Law states, in relation to the management of public funds, that a budget can only be submitted in a balanced, transparent and rational manner and that public funds can be spent in this way. But for now, the budget of this very important Ministry is a big zero. After all, in this draft budget law and in the transformation of the budget, we see that there is nothing in this chapter but zero forints. Let's hope it doesn't get so frivolous, then the ministry you're setting up. But we could hear and read the explanation, according to János Lázár, there will be a transfer from another chapter, and later the government will regroup to make this ministry work. Then let's ask what other field of expertise you'll be relocating from. Do you wish to divert resources from health care so that this very important ministry will be able to operate? Or are you going to try to cut the area of education in this way? Or will another ministry, indeed a specialist, be the victim of the establishment of this new ministry? We know that the general reserve framework, i.e. the framework for extraordinary government measures, can no longer be reached, as Minister Mihály Varga stated that a bill to be submitted later on will need to be amended because the migration crisis has all consumed this reserve. So, if there is no reserve framework, they can't touch anything but some other area of expertise, where they actually perform a professional task rather than generally coordinate politically. But to go further, it seems from this bill, from the bill you have tabled, that this will be a ministry with an extremely tiszavirág life, it will only have a warranty of two months overall, such as November and December. We already have a 2016 budget law negotiated in June, so you should also amend the 2016 budget law on the basis of this proposal. How, then, will a contract be concluded with new employees for a maximum of two months? After all, you can't take any more commitments by what means, because this ministry is not included in the Finance Act, the 2016 Finance Act. Now, let's move on, because there are still some interesting and unanswered questions about who will lead this ministry, for example. According to the news, Antal Rogán, about whom John Lázár himself - and I quote his exact words - said that he had such a special personal gift that he became indispensable to his government policy. Well, we've been trying to find out what these extraordinary qualities are for Antal Rogán, which make him or her minister. Let's see. This is what we know about the Minister-designate. Even as mayor, he had a major career. He has conducted a specific asset management policy, for example, in the sale of business premises in downtown, and, on the basis of captive scenarios, has indeed made a creative solution to the sale of these downtown business premises, that in some ways the beneficiaries have always come out of the buddy and friendly circle. But he also pursued a very interesting and specific asset management policy regarding the sale of wages palaces in strategic locations at a low price and in packages. For example, one of my favourite stories was the Szent István Elementary School there in the vicinity of the Basilica, Sándor Mudura managed to sell it, and, we know, he had a very good relationship with Prime Minister Medgyessy to a former Romanian entrepreneur, and, indeed, in some ways, his reputation has been shadowed in the past, but I do not think that this is the reason why the mayor of downtown has concluded a contract with him. But in both cases or in the case of both problems, the common thing is that the apparent lack of value can be detected for all properties sold. Then the main street of the city is also extremely famous, not to say that it has become infamous. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-09-29-60	Dear Congresswoman, Madam Recorder! I'm wondering if I can honestly say that the law doesn't include the minister's identity... [[Defiance, uproar and interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] And I consider it unnecessary to deviate from the subject. I'm warning you... [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] I warn you, notary, to get to the point and talk about the law. [[Advanced Novak: You have a personal suggestion!]] Not about who will be appointed minister. Thank you very much for your understanding patience. [[11.20]]
u2015-09-29-61	Mr. Speaker, The person I am talking about is a public figure, a Member of Parliament, which is why he is obliged to tolerate criticism not only inside the House but also outside the House. I'm talking about the man who's been named in the press and who's going to run this ministry, how capable he is of the role he's meant to be. I think that all the problems that I would like to mention to you here and present to you are, by the way, an undisputed case that has already been published in the press, which cannot be sued by anyone, and I think that there is a place for this thinking here, in front of the House, in the temple of the nation. Thank you very much. [[The president's ringing the bell. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-62	Dear notary, Congresswoman, I judge you differently. Please, get to the point and don't judge a person. Do this in a speech before the agenda, do it in another form here in the holy temple, but not on this subject. [[Forebod Novak: Let's not be stupid to each other. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He will be the minister!]]
u2015-09-29-63	Mr Speaker, I will express my thoughts in a way that is absolutely close to the point.
u2015-09-29-64	Thank you very much.
u2015-09-29-65	That's why I'd like to continue now what I'd like to talk about. We know that Minister János Lázár's ministry has the issue of European affairs and EU applications. It will come out of this, and it will come out of this ministry, as we know, the next ministry leading the future cabinet, and that is why it is important to examine the relationship between the two. In the case of European Union applications, if an irregularity is detected, OLAF often investigates in very many cases and the same happens, so this OLAF investigation is also taking place, for example, in the case of the main street of the city centre, where this very important EU institution has found that significant abuses have occurred, such as personalised procurement procedures or significant over-invoicing. I think that if we are talking about the European Union's proposals and the ministry leading up to general political coordination, it would also be very important to coordinate the experts working in OLAF politically, in general, thoroughly and thoroughly, so that this confusing thinking can be rejected once and for all, so that, please, this can't happen in Rogania. But if we want to remain in the role of the future, very important ministry, then obviously, in the context of general political coordination, the fight against corruption is also something that will need to be coordinated generally politically between the different ministries. For example, I can't stop thinking about the famous project, the Zeppelin project of Csipak, in which we know that Péter Csipak has already become a criminal because he has been suspended from prison. At the time, I should also note in parentheses, it was the mayor of the time, who supported this project in particular. And what does Péter Csipak's project have in common with Peter Csipak himself and the mayor of that time? Well, the fact that they both like to live in a big apartment, nice and comfortable. Unfortunately, I have to add, and that is part of our task here, because all Members of Parliament and therefore all ministers will be obliged to make a declaration of wealth, that anyone can live in a nice large apartment, only the Members of Parliament or ministers will have to confess it precisely. So you can't be coy in this regard, and every day, every week... Yes, of course, it is possible that our apartment begins to live on its own, and it begins to grow on its own, such strange things also occur, but returning to the earth and to the laws of physics, this can be considered a rarity. So, going back to the very important ministry, we're going to be very curious about your wealth statement about the apartment you're living in right now. One more thing is very important, also in the context of the fight against corruption, is the person of Andy Vajna. As we know, this Commissioner has been told that casinos which he now owns in the form of a concession contract are somehow, in some strange way, linked to offshore companies. Undoubtedly, the fight against corruption must begin by looking around in its own immediate environment, whether it is by chance a relationship that could cast some kind of shadow on his work, such as general political coordination, if it is someone's job to do so. According to the bad language, Andy Vajna is very good with the future minister, let's say he is almost family and friendly, and it is terrible to hear from the press that some people consider the establishment of this ministry to be a crossfather's shopping. Right now, he's not buying a casino, he's not buying a restaurant, he's buying some real estate, he's buying a ministry. This extremely serious charge should be dismissed as soon as possible, as well as direct contact with the offshore knights. So not only is Andy Vajna, an offshore horse, but also the winners of the settlement policy, who are essentially economic immigrants, but in some way always came to us from some kind of tax haven, and it is also a fact that the sale of settlement bonds will be linked to the former head minister of the Ministry of Extreme Importance. To sum up, I think that it is an extremely bad pedagogical tool to debate among immature people, to decide squabbling by trying to quiet them down with expensive toys. You can't turn a game into a ministry. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-66	Thank you, notary. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-09-29-67	Mr President, Thank you for the floor, I have just spoken, so there must be some technical error. Thank you very much. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Interviews from Jobbik: Back! Get back!]]
u2015-09-29-68	I give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, and I apologize.
u2015-09-29-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would have loved to have listened to Imre Vejkey one more time. The fact is that, in fact, I fully agree with Gergely Gulyás's customary law, so according to the Hungarian constitutional traditions, the Prime Minister's heart has the right to define the structure of the Ministry as he sees fit. This is how Ferenc Gyurcsány also made a note of it in the summer of 2006, Fidesz also contributed - when he smashed the Administrative Secretary of State with a pen stroke. So, in itself, when and how the Prime Minister intends to transform the governance structure, the Prime Minister has a autonomy in this Hungarian constitutional order, and I would therefore not want to deal with it in particular; just as the LMP wishes to be a self-restraint in that we do not want to deal more closely with the person of the potential minister indicated in the press. However, because the proposal alone is unacceptable, there are several reasons why Mrs Loránt Hegedűs referred to one of them. So it is quite funny that, while the budget for 2016 is being announced with a big draft, a ministry will be set up by October 15 and they will also forget to present the amendment to the 2016 budget to the House. It seems that this Ministry, which the Prime Minister intends to establish, will be such a 3-month-old ministry. I think it would have been good to tell Antal Rogán in advance, or, if not with Antal Rogán, with the person to whom this honouring task awaits, that this ministry will live only three months, since the reading of the proposal cannot be different. So if you wish only to reschedule the 2015 budget for the sake of the new ministry and not the 16th, it has only one reading that the person who becomes the Cabinet Minister will perform this honour for 3 months, and on 1 January you can go with the word of God, just as your ministry, which we are discussing here, will go into oblivion. [[11.30]] I think that this is completely frivolous, that the Prime Minister who gives himself something will not create a ministry for three months. Of course, I also understand the concept that Gergely Gulyás has set out here on the basis of English and other examples. In the practice of the last 25 years, the government of the ministries was divided among political and administrative State Secretarys, replacing ministers. There is a logic that the Prime Minister should also be Deputy Minister for Public Administration and Policy Coordination. What is the problem, in addition to the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister's stadium has been allocated by the Prime Minister on the basis of a different logic and consideration, is that the Prime Minister's Office, as a gigaministérium, has practically made the government's existence unnecessary in recent years. Let us face it, that the enlargement of the Prime Minister's Office's duties has practically emptied all ministries, and this is no longer just a matter of the Prime Minister's sovereignty, because it has also undermined governance beyond cycles - when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has long since ceased to be Prime Minister. [[József Varga intervenes.]] This may come as a surprise to my fellow Member Varga, and I think it would also be good to prepare for a time when the Prime Minister of Hungary will no longer be called Viktor Orbán. So our real problem is with what is not so much the actual current amendment, but the functioning of the Prime Minister's Office as such a gigaministerium. They touched the traditional competence areas of the ministries in a way that was not logical and professionally considered and moved to the Prime Minister's Office. Now they're trying to divide this Prime Minister's Office on the basis of some kind of logic, while the fundamental problem is these gigaministeriums. First and foremost, with the Prime Minister and second, with the Ministry of Resources, there is a government structure in Hungary, where practically the ministers are puppet figures, the Prime Minister and the current Chancellor, probably their cabinet minister, it will be three, so far it has been two who have decided virtually everything. Note that this governance structure, where there is an overweight Chancellor's Ministry, does not correspond to the spirit of the Fundamental Law, where the government is defined as a body. At the moment, government decisions cannot be discussed, as practically money, steeds, posters, everything is at the Prime Minister's Office. I believe that this kind of centralisation of the government also causes very serious damage within the public administration in the long term. Our other problem, however, is that the Prime Minister does not break off with this overweight Prime Minister's Office, does not break with the practice of gigaminist regions, and our other problem is why we need special supervision of government communication. Our problem is government communication. The criticism of the socialists is completely discredited in this, as under socialist governments the existence was generously divided to propagate the 100-day programme and the next 100-day programme. Let's face it, whether the socialists steal or you steal, stealing is stealing. Yesterday, the LMP presented a bill to a committee banning government propaganda. It must be made clear to people that when a government spends hundreds of millions and billions on communication, it is the whole covert party funding and the legalisation of theft. The current government has the right to communicate only in the band where information is essential for the exercise of citizens' rights or the fulfilment of their obligations. The fact that your ancestors didn't do that, they stole it, and they pushed it out to your buddies in 2002 for government communication doesn't excuse you. In 2009, even outside Parliament, we criticized the Bajnai government for spending 300-400 million forints on government communication. You're spending ten times that. Now that I don't know what the hell they call this national insult, it's still stealing. This may be humorous for my fellow Member Varga, but it is simply that you are crossing the rules of party financing, crossing what is normally the purpose of a government, and government communication is simply a buddy paying place, and, on the other hand, extra money for the current governing party. And how much the problem is, to illustrate this, it is also necessary to talk about the fact that this highly immoral, mugging practice was continued before 2010 and that public-owned and non-competitive state-owned companies continue to do so. We remember from the period of the first Orbán government when football teams ran out on the lawn with an MFB logo, we also remember MVM ads from the period 2002-2010, and we remember MVM and Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. ads now. Can anyone tell me why these companies need advertising? It's quite simply stealing, stealing citizens, stealing people who pay taxes. When my fellow Member Varga, let us say, turns on the lights, he is not in a position to decide whether he wants to buy electricity from MVM or someone else. [[József Varga: We had petroleum.]] Therefore, it should also be prohibited for publicly owned companies, and LMP will ban them from spending on propaganda, and this distorted practice has, by the way, been ringing down to local authorities for a very long time, when local mayors and municipal leaders also thought that local government companies could spend as much on sponsorship as they wanted, and they have a separate register on the ground to propagate their own political nonsense with public money. This exercise must be completed. Not a new Ministry, a new Minister of Inspectorship must be appointed above government communication, but government communication as such must be simply completed, and reverse transactions must be investigated by the prosecution. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm really asking you to stop pointing at each other. Because a practice was guilty between 90 and 2010, although this practice began to bite during the first Orbán government, from 98, which was still guilty after 2010; especially then, my fellow Member Szávay rightly speaks, the original sin was the promotion of the gigantoma of the Széchenyi plan. Then came good Péter Medgyessy in 2002, who promoted the 100-day-old program on stickers and posters to prevent people from forgetting and continuing this practice. The difference between you and your predecessors is that you do this at ten times the price. They take ten times the size of the register from the people, they steal ten times as much money from Hungarian education, Hungarian health care, and they give ten times as much extra spending money to the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association. That's the thing. It is not necessary to create a new ministry, but to ban this practice and prosecute, because government propaganda as such is nothing more than legitimizing theft. Dear Parliament, Therefore, we continue to demand that the national communication office, as such, be terminated, not the Minister of Inspectorship, but that this office be terminated. It doesn't have any function that is essential for government activity, and enough for government communication is HUF 100-200 million. If you want to open new government windows, for example, the government obviously has a job to inform citizens about this, but it doesn't require billions. 100-200 million forints is enough. The government has to communicate with voters in the same band if a central administrative information is essential for the exercise of citizens' rights or the fulfilment of their obligations. If a change of identity is launched, if there are changes in the electronic public service that citizens need to be informed of, no one will, of course, dispute that the central government must fulfil the obligation to provide information in this regard. But taking over the bullshit of the Gyurcsány government and proclaiming on your billboard that the reforms are working is simply facial toaster, outrageous. I thought Árpád Habony was more imaginative than going back to 2007. Dear Parliament, As far as the structure is concerned, we continue to claim that, while the Prime Minister has the right, of course, to determine who he wishes to work with and how he wants to work together, the gigaministries, i.e. the enlarged Chancellorship and the Ministry of Resources, partially make it impossible for areas such as education, health or the environment to be seen in the government in a racially significant way. Gigaministries make it impossible for the government to function as a body in accordance with the spirit of the Fundamental Law and, not least, cause chaotic relations in the central administration in the long term. [[11.40]] So the reason why we cannot fundamentally support the proposal is because it does not break with the logic of gigaminists, it does not break with the logic that, instead of the government as a body, all questions will actually be decided in the court of the Prime Minister. At present, ministers are actually puppet figures, because they do not decide on the essential issues - now everyone knows - in their own territory. What the Prime Minister thinks about governance and the quality of governance, what he thinks about ministries at all, I think the news that has flooded the press over the last few days about the State Secretary exchanges tells me a lot about it. You can see that if a secretary of state is sufficiently prepared and aware of his own territory, he can cut the inch of how many days he has left, when he will be fired by the Prime Minister. For example, yesterday's news is a good example. Sándor Czomba and I have had quite a lot of debates, for example on the code of exploitation, but no one, I think, has had reason to doubt that Sándor Czomba understands the area of responsibility which is his area of responsibility, and we were also with Minister of State Répássy. However, we do not know anything about the political and professional qualities of the new secretary of state announced in the last six months or six months. What we know is that they have had a very good political struggle in their single mandate constituencies to be the single mandate district presidents. What Péter Cseresnyés understands about employment policy, I think it is obscured and obscured, I think, in the eyes of the Prime Minister. It is probably not intended to serve the Hungarian central administration by competent, government members and competent State Secretarys. This system, one element of which is now cutting off a tiny slice of the Prime Minister's Office, is quite simply about the fact that not only the Constitutional Court and other power centres have become redundant in the system of national cynicism, but also the government itself is an unnecessary burden. There's no need for a government body. He's got a prime minister, and now he's got two wingmen, a chancellorial minister and a cabinet minister. That's the story. In addition to, of course, recognising the Prime Minister's responsibility to establish a proper governance structure for him, this practice goes against even the spirit of the Fundamental Law and damages the central administration in the long term. That's why we won't be able to support it. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-29-70	Thank you, Mr. Schiffer Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2015-09-29-71	Thank you very much for the floor. As an opposition representative, man constantly tries to imagine himself in a normal country, in a normal parliament and as an opposition to a normal government. This ambition is very difficult to achieve, but I am constantly experimenting with it myself. During the summer months, a number of government reports have come that the government will review its activities for one year, and in light of this performance will be assessed, the Ministry system will be replaced, where appropriate, by changes. Big surprises don't usually happen during the Orbán government in this regard, but we managed to surprise us. Let's see how we feel about the problems we've had over the past year. I'd just like to highlight three, which is very obvious, and I think everyone agreed. On the one hand, the last year was a series of amazing corruption scandals. These Quaestor, Buda-Cash cases had a clear connection to the government. You think that then, obviously, state control, NAV and other anti-corruption agencies must be strengthened. Well, right now, there hasn't been a president of the NAV for months, and there are absolutely no tangible, responsible people in the government who can be asked something, because there's a reliable way to think of answering. We've talked a lot about health care over the past year, obviously not by accident. Each Hungarian citizen simply feels the inconvenience of how the Hungarian health system collapses every day. In recent weeks, we have received accurate information from the Statistical Office on how many more doctors and health professionals have left the country in the last year than in the previous year. Something's wrong, it's self-evident. The Secretary of State for Health announced his resignation months ago. We have no idea what's gonna happen. Obviously, this kind of uncertainty does not help employees of the health sector or Hungarian citizens who are waiting for some kind of safe health services to go to a health institution with calmness. And we can't talk about anything comforting in the field of education. It's depressing what's happened in the last year, in the last five years, and after that, in the last year. The results are dramatic. The latest PISA data were published recently, which revealed that 20 percent of young Hungarians are functionally illiterate. Children can't understand the text they're reading, and if they don't master digital skills, skills, obviously it's not the children, we know it very well. This means that the system is not suitable for Hungarian children to be treated in accordance with Article XXI. Teach them the skills and knowledge they need to thrive in life. I'm just gonna mention these three. In these areas, not only has there not been a positive change, but there is great uncertainty about the government. I'm seeing this disastrously. Well, in no way has the Government's transformation reflected on these problems, but it has put a Minister of Propaganda in the neck of Hungarian citizens. Here, the speakers before me have already given a long and detailed account of the outstanding performance of the Hungarian government in terms of propaganda. I think that this is also commendable in historical terms. So the amount of money allocated to it, the amazing xenophobic, alpárian tone, which the propaganda of the Hungarian government has implemented, can in fact be assessed, even if not from a western, European perspective. I would just add that, in this sense, as it is happening today in Hungary, the Minister of Propaganda and Communication is, in principle, established by revolutionary governments and governments during a war period. In my view, there is neither revolution nor war in Hungary, nor does the government consider its activity a revolution; it is very, very worrying for us. I'm not going to tell you where this type of ministry is supposed to be. Again, I do not repeat how this kind of politicalisation promotes intransparency, confusion, irresponsibleness, and government irresponsibleness, and why Hungarian citizens are letting a deep and dark veil of clarity. I think that this proposal symbolizes exactly how the Hungarian government, Viktor Orbán, thinks about Hungary, what it considers us Hungarians, what it considers its own ministers to be on each other's shoulders. For my part, I would find it incredibly humiliating to be a member of the Hungarian government in such a kind of childish game as we see before us. It's a real Eastern power arrogance. There is no transparency, there is nothing democratic about it, there is nothing in it that makes it possible to love the Hungarian government. I think that the Hungarian government is all about arrogance and wealth, which can be confirmed by propaganda, a good new Minister of Propaganda. And then, finally, one more aspect; well, perhaps this House doesn't give anyone any particular concern, but believe me, if we look around the world, it will immediately become spectacular: this government has now been able to appoint the minister of the 12th man. Hungary is the only country in the developed world where there is a government of pure men. In addition, four of these are now serving the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's Office, and there are eight in total who would otherwise be interested in other things. [[11.50]] It is simply unworthy, ridiculous, infinitely saddening that there are 12 men in Hungary's government. So this is a nonsense proposal, obviously there is nothing in it that can be supported, another depressing point in how Viktor Orbán leads Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2015-09-29-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for two minutes, LMP.
u2015-09-29-73	Thank you very much. Mr. President. It's just that, before we go into the discussion of the propagandaistery here, I would like to add once again that the original sin is not how this government propaganda is placed within the government, but that there is any cash for government propaganda, and while the Orbán government has increased this tenfold, the same crime has been committed by the Bajnai, Gyurcsány, Medgyessy and the first Orbán governments. Here, my fellow Member, the Széchenyi plan, was the right way to start this whole shameful robbery, and I think those of the previous governments might be able to show some modesty in this. However, speaking of the structure of the government, I would like to continue what the Congresswoman has started here. Speaking of a government structure, please answer why the Secretary of State or someone in the Fidesz could not accept, for example, the LMP proposal to sweep the offshore knights out of the government. We had a suggestion that there shouldn't be a shame that people who are full of various offshore interests could be government commissioners and deputy state ministers. Why didn't you accept this proposal, Mr. Secretary? Do they want to make a national capital out of people in the Caymans and God knows what kind of islands they have in common? While you have been talking about freedom fighting for five years, in fact, in your governments there are those people who are pumping billions out of the Hungarian national economy without counting. How's that? ! So, if you're going to put a restructuring of the government structure here before Parliament, the first and most important thing would be that, according to the LMP's proposal, offshore knights should not be swept out of the government, for example, by government commissioner Andy Vajna [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And finish saying that they are giving velvet chairs to people who are pumping incomes out of Hungary. Thank you.
u2015-09-29-74	Thank you. I will give the floor to Mr László Varju, an independent congressman for two minutes.
u2015-09-29-75	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, Of course, first, it must be stated that this propagandaistry is not necessary in this country, because here they are trying to resolve and play a division of labour between two actors in such a way that they can separate their responsibilities, and in such a situation they will spend a lot of money on it. But that is no reason, my honourable fellow Member Schiffer, to wash things where one has nothing to do with the other. You need to know exactly as well that the development and resources in the European Union that require and even require social information need to be done there, but this has nothing to do with what you are now bringing into this. In fact, in your previous comment there was a contradiction: you have just suggested that there is a need to inform citizens to some extent - and this has nothing to do with the fact that a government, in this case the Fidesz government, spends HUF 70 billion on propaganda through MTVA that is inexplicable and even now wants to transfer another HUF 47 billion in the current period - creating a situation where the previous government could have any similarities. You are significantly mistaken in this, and please refrain from such sentences. Thank you very much.
u2015-09-29-76	Thank you, Congressman Varju. Mr Mihály Witzmann, Member Fidesz, announced his intention to speak in advance.
u2015-09-29-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As my former pro-government colleagues have already referred to it in their speeches, a new ministry is actually starting to operate under the name of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. On the other hand, I regretted listening to the opposition speeches here, as if we were not talking about the agenda. My opposition colleagues spoke here about health care, about education, about European Union development resources, about NAV, about Széchenyi's plan, and they didn't stay away from personal activities as usual. They talked about the fact that the Hungarian government is lovable or unlovable; obviously we do not expect opposition representatives to see this Hungarian government as lovable. But once we are off the subject, my opposition fellow Members have not spoken about the progress that this government has made since 2010, in particular, in terms of the economy. Because if we turn away from the subject, we should not just mention the negatives, I think, Mr. Schiffer-- [[Dr. András Schiffer is talking to MSZP representatives.]] I am aware that you are monitoring my comments - but you could have talked about the fact that there is a declining government debt. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Decreasing public debt?]] ; they could have also talked about the increase in employment; they could have said quite calmly that the general government deficit has been below 3 per cent since 2010; they could have talked about record low inflation; they could have talked about economic growth. Even if my fellow Member smiles, it is the same. They could have also talked about the fact that in 2010 we were so far from the state failure that we were practically in a place of economic growth in the European Union, and they could have talked about a lot more, but that is not what we heard. If you will allow me, I would rather go back to the substance of the agenda, because I think we should have heard opinions about it. In parallel with the change in the governance structure, the amendment of Act C of 2014 on the Central Budget of 2015 will also be necessary and the proposed amendment will result in the amendment of Annex 1 to the Act by extending the Chapter of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. In accordance with the legislation in force, the government will manage the resources arising from the creation of a new chapter at a later date. It is also important to point out that the new government body that will be created will not be a specialised department, and certainly not a gigaministérium, which has also been discussed here by my fellow Members in opposition benches, but will primarily help the Prime Minister carry out political coordination activities. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi, and Nándor Gúr is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] Given that, in the past, every prime minister had a separate staff or a separate cabinet office, I believe that the new government body that is now being created is more of a technical amendment. Here, I would also like to draw attention to what Gergely Gulyás, the lead speaker of Fidesz, has said that many international examples support the operation of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Offices, the Prime Minister's staff, from England to France and Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that ensuring and creating the conditions for effective government work is, by the way, a fundamental interest of this country as a whole, and it is therefore not appropriate to make such legislative amendments a means of day-to-day political battles, because I believe that this does not in any way mean constructive behaviour, even if we are thinking of opposition contributions. That is why, with all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us and to vote in favour of adopting the bill accordingly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has completed its meeting. In line with our agreed agenda, the joint general debate will be adjourned, continued and concluded today, after the votes. Dear Parliament, A consolidated debate on the proposal to amend certain insurance legislation in the context of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance will therefore follow. The submission submitted by MEPs Erik Bánki, Péter Cseresnyés and Dénes Galambos Fidesz T/6353. is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[12.00]] I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 15 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 10 minutes for a statement by the representatives of the government, 6 minutes for a statement by the Legislative Committee, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the speeches of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speech of the independent representative. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a time frame of 15 minutes for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-29-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As you are aware, on 26 August 2015 the Romanian Astra insurance company was declared insolvent by the combined Romanian financial supervision and revoked its operating licence, after the company had failed to comply with the requirements for capitalising on the deadline. Astra had more than 3 million customers, of which nearly 200,000 Hungarians were involved in this issue, as most of them concluded car liability insurance contracts with the company. At the beginning of September, the clients of the bankrupt insurance company received a letter from the Hungarian branch to terminate their joint insurance contract on 30 September. This is possible if the agreement received from the branch of the insurance undertaking is signed and returned by mail or e-mail. Since 16 September, the compensation invoice of the Association of Hungarian Insurance Companies has been receiving claims claims related to motor vehicle liability insurance claims caused by the domestic customers of Astra Insurance Company after 17 August 2015 but not yet reported to the insurance company. Mabis registers the reports, inspects the damaged vehicles, requests the documents necessary to prepare for the assessment of the damage and pays the amount of damage against the compensation invoice. Damages to motor vehicle liability insurance and other types before 17 August 2015 will be reimbursed by the Hungarian Guarantee Fund in the case of Romanian or compulsory liability insurance. According to the central bank's announcement, Romanian and Hungarian insurance guarantee funds have a statutory obligation to compensate for the compulsory motor liability insurance damage related to the Romanian Astra Insurance Company following the winding up of the insurance undertaking. Both guarantee funds have the necessary legal resources. The branch has some 169 thousand compulsory car liability insurance contracts in Hungary, as well as 5,000 casco, 17 thousand housing insurance, 96 life insurance and passenger insurance. Up to now, around 3600-4000 motor vehicle liability insurance claims have been reported, most of which are mandatory, and further notifications are expected. Since non-binding car liability insurance contracts can be transferred, there is no legal limit for customers in this respect. Dear House, From what I've told you, so far, everything seems to be in order, but the situation is far less rosy or, at least, a good chance. Where the problem arises, they are compulsory car liability insurance. Firstly, the branch of the Astra Insurance Company in Hungary is not entitled to conclude new insurance contracts. It shall fulfil its obligations under existing contracts until the winding-up process begins. However, second, despite the above, the Hungarian branch will not receive a new damage report from 14 September and will not pay for the damage already reported. The reason for this is that the Romanian supervision obliges the Astra Insurance Company to stop payments, although it would be obliged under EU law. Payments could only take place after the Romanian court has ordered the winding-up order. However, uncertainty may take several months. It is also a problem that claims can only be lodged directly with the Romanian Guarantee Fund by adding a claim form and the necessary documents. Finally, the lack of uniform EU rules on insurance compensation funds is an obstacle to rapid settlement. According to the Romanian supervisory information, they can compensate everyone to EUR 100,000 for damages, and the Mabis compensation fund also provides cover here, but we also have to wait for the liquidation order, which may take several months. So our job is to find a solution to these problems and not leave the Hungarian Astra clients in uncertainty and doubt for several months. In the case of motor vehicle liability insurance victims, the solution will be that the compensation invoice managed by Mabis will also pre-empt the Hungarian compulsory car liability insurance damages for these customers, which will ensure that the claims settlement and payment can be ensured on an ongoing basis. This will be covered financially by Mabis. This is complemented by Mabis' claim rights vis-à-vis the Astra Insurance Company and its branch, as well as the Romanian guarantee fund. The point is, therefore, that, on the basis of the advance, the Hungarian injured person can obtain compensation at home, continuously, even before the winding-up order is ordered, by filing an indemnification report to Mabis, by publishing the MNB and the Mabis briefings, which have been made available on the website. The proposal provides for an obligation to publish on the website of supervision in the event of withdrawal of the business authorisation of an insurance undertaking established in another Member State which carries out its activities in Hungary through a cross-border service or through a branch in Hungary. On this basis, the supervision is obliged to publish on its website the news of the decision of supervision on the third day following the notification of bankruptcy. The proposal provides for the possibility for the Hungarian Association of Insurance Corporations, the compensation invoice managed by Mabis, to pre-empt the Hungarian compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance damage, thus ensuring that claims settlement and payment can be ensured on an ongoing basis. It will also be possible to conclude a new contract for those concerned without the termination of the valid contract if the supervision publishes the prospectus on the bankruptcy of that insurance undertaking. The risk-taking obligation of the bankrupt insurance undertaking will also be terminated on the day before the new contract, but the start of the risk-taking obligation of the new contract shall not be earlier than the date on which the supervisory prospectus is published. This is financially available at Mabis. This is complemented by Mabis' claim entitlement to the Astra Insurance Company. Another element of the legislative amendment is the settlement of the fate of compulsory car liability insurance contracts. The branch's clients currently have the possibility to terminate a contract by mutual agreement by signing and returning an agreement received by the branch of the insurance undertaking. However, this solution does not resolve the termination of all the contracts, so it would be possible to transfer so-called, on the basis of which, by concluding the new contract, the old contract would cease, so that the coverage would remain continuous. The new insurance undertaking shall notify the bond registration body within 15 days, who shall also notify the old insurance undertaking within 15 days. That's the procedure that's in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the aim is, therefore, that customers who have been in this unpleasant and uncertain situation for as little time as possible without having to wait for the decision to be taken by a foreign country, another country, so we proposed in the domestic legal order that their situation be resolved as soon as possible with the involvement of Mabis. Obviously, there is still room to amend the proposal in this respect, there was an opportunity to present them, these proposals were discussed by the Legislative Committee, and the rapporteur will state the committee's position on this. In view of these considerations, I recommend that you pay attention to the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-09-29-80	Thank you very much. Then you have six minutes and 45 seconds left at the end of the debate to say the closing word to the congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, within a 10-minute time frame.
u2015-09-29-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say that I welcome the motion of my fellow Members, whose primary objective is to address the precarious situation that may arise in connection with the possible liquidation of the Romanian Astra Insurance Company in order to protect Hungarian contractors and victims. [[12.10]] As is well known, the problem is that the Romanian financial supervision withdrew the Romanian Astra Insurance Company's operating license at the end of summer 2015. In Romania, it may take several months for the court to declare the liquidation of the insurance company. In the absence of an authorisation, the branch of the Astra Insurance Company in Hungary is also not entitled to conclude new insurance contracts. However, until the winding-up proceedings have started, its obligations under existing contracts, such as its claims, should be fulfilled, but it does not do so despite EU and domestic legislation. He doesn't, because the parent company stopped the damage payments. As Congressman Galambos has said, the branch in Hungary has some 169 thousand compulsory car liability insurance contracts, as well as other, for example, casco, housing insurance. The latter are allowed to enter into a new parallel contract, so it is true that only compulsory car insurance must be dealt with in law. The Romanian and Hungarian guarantee funds will pay for the damage once the liquidation has been ordered, but until then we must act. In my opinion, this bill provides a very practical and good solution to the situation. Since the new damage has to be reported to the Association of Hungarian Insurance Corporations, which is Mabis, this issue is settled, but with the adoption of the bill the victims can submit their old claims here, which are not yet judged by Astra, so there will be no dependent situation, I could say, dependent game, but an orderly framework. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We're talking about thousands of damages that can't be ignored. On the basis of the bill, the compensation invoice managed by Mabis therefore covers not only the new damage, but also the old damage, and when events in Romania reach a point, they will be recovered from the Astra Insurance Company and the Romanian Guarantee Fund. In my view, it is also important that we impose a data and document obligation on the Astra Insurance Company through the proposal, so that Mabis can assess claims responsibly. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank also facilitates the fulfilment of this data provision as a supervisory authority. Overall, this is also important because we can prevent insurance fraud. If we do not take this step, the injured person will have no choice but to sue the insured injured party directly for damages, which, if it is successful, the injured person will be able to run after his money with his claim to the Romanian insurance undertaking or guarantee fund, and perhaps someday he will receive his claim if he is patient and can wait. All of this must be avoided. Dear House, Another element of the legislative amendment is the settlement of the fate of existing mandatory car liability insurance contracts. Hungarian customers have until 30 September the opportunity to terminate their insurance contract by mutual agreement by signing and returning the agreement received by letter from the insurance company's Hungarian branch. This is also a well-known fact, the brokerage companies advertise on radio, television and newspapers that we can rely on their help in reaching a common understanding and concluding a new contract. However, this solution is not likely to settle the termination of all contracts, so the bill provides an opportunity for customers to transfer to another insurance undertaking so that their coverage remains continuous. This transfer is also recorded with the bond and damage registration body, so there will be no problem with the collateral for any verification. On this basis, I believe that the bill tabled by the Members is a wholly eligible motion serving consumers' interests. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would also like to ask for your vote to support the motion in a few minutes' time so that we can resolve the situation with satisfaction. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-29-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a six-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-09-29-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At today's meeting of the Legislative Committee, which ended a few minutes ago, T/6353 on the amendment of certain insurance legislation in the context of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. Bill No. 1 and its detailed discussion. The committee submitted 38 amendments to the bill, with a unanimous vote. As has already been said here by the authors, the purpose of the submission of the bill was for the Romanian financial supervision to withdraw the operating licence of the Romanian Astra Insurance Company on 31 August 2015 and for this to result in various problems. Erik Bánki, Dénes Galambos and our fellow Member Péter Cseresnyés submitted a legislative amendment to settle this. Two amendments were tabled to the bill. One of them was submitted by Kristóf Szatmáry, our fellow Member T/6353/3. This was accepted by the Legislative Committee, which was incorporated into the summary amendment proposal. The amendments made by two better Members, Dániel Z. Kárpát and Csaba Gyüre, were not supported by the committee. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] The representative of the Government present gave detailed reasons why he did not support this amendment. After a brief discussion, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-09-29-84	Thank you, Congressman Vas Imre. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Heaven, Fidesz.
u2015-09-29-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me not to repeat it, but in the light of a few aspects, I would like to add to what was said in the national exposé and by the representative of the government. To illustrate the gravity of the problem, I would like to remind you that tomorrow, on 30 September, the opportunity to terminate the agreement agreement offered by Astra will expire, which could affect tens of thousands of people. The press has informed customers that despite the fact that the company's domestic representation has announced that the victims can be paid out of two directions, from the Romanian state guarantee fund and the Hungarian compensation fund, it is not bad to look for other insurance companies in the case of some contracts. However, it is important to note that customers with compulsory car liability insurance can only switch suppliers at the end of their contract, but those who do not have a refund can still expect compensation for a possible accident, since customer service and settlement continue to work. Casco and house and property insurance can also be terminated at Astra on anniversary, under the terms and conditions applicable to the contract, but for property insurance, who can do so, can also be contracted in parallel with another company. I would like to stress that this duplication would not have been possible before, but the new Ptk that came into force last year. However, it already permits this form. Despite all this, although the simplest solution at first sight may be to accept the possibility of termination by taking small losses, there may be some stakeholders who, for various reasons, cannot or do not want to do so. The bill before us is intended to remedy this problem. [[12.20]] Why is that important? The Hungarian branch of Astra Insurance has not received or paid claims since bankruptcy. Although the Romanian compensation fund promised to settle the losses of the Hungarian customers who came to it up to a limit of EUR 100,000, i.e. some HUF 31 million, during the winding-up procedure, there is no information on the date, method, details of the damage management and the expected language. All it is known is that the insurance undertaking has an obligation to settle the damage to the paying customers until the winding-up order has been ordered or until a transitional period thereafter, essentially the date on which the customer contracts are maintained, as required by Romanian law. The Romanian and Hungarian guarantee funds created for this purpose would normally take over the compensation tasks only after that, i.e. the compensation for the damage to housing and casco insurance is extremely uncertain, and even the compensation of 31 million in the case of higher-value real estate or vehicles may be limited. Unfortunately, in the case of compulsory car insurance, the situation is even worse, because it is possible that domestic victims who have become impatient due to a long lead time will have the right to take advantage of their rights to claim compensation for their damages directly against the victims, i.e. the astrologer customers, instead of the insurance company. In this uncertain situation, the Association of Hungarian Insurance Corporations plays a kind of bridge role, which, through the compensation invoice, predates the Hungarian mandatory motor vehicle liability insurance damage, thereby ensuring the continuous settlement of claims and payment of damages. The financial coverage of this is available at Mabis. Dear Parliament, The current rapid legislative reaction is due, among other things, to the close working relationship between Mabis and all the organisations involved in the insurance business, especially government and supervisory bodies, such as the Ministry of National Economy and the Hungarian National Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, Like the authors, I would urge my fellow Members to put people in an awkward situation in order quickly and resolve this matter as soon as possible. In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-09-29-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Mengyi Roland. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2015-09-29-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a bill that basically leads us in the right direction. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been saying from the beginning that it supports every bill that is forward-looking and nothing that is not. Right now, we have a proposal that we can agree with. However, we regret that the governing parties do not support the amendments tabled by the Jobbik Hungary Movement merely with a view to improving it. We also had a debate on this in the Legislative Committee. I find it rather strange that, in this uncertain legal situation, when an insurance company goes bankrupt, it is almost the worst for victims of compulsory liability insurance - for those who would use it - because they didn't take the insurance, but through the insurance of someone else and of someone else who caused the damage, how they will be able to make the compensation. This is a very important issue, and it is very right that this will be regulated by law, and we can put an end to this. So there is an uncertain legal situation on which we can improve with a law. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has submitted further amendments to the legislative proposals, which are trying to make this very uncertain legal situation more secure. What are we talking about? In the present case, the Contracting Parties to Astra Insurance, who held with them their compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance, are faced with the problem of being notified that they can conclude a new contract and terminate the old contract by 30 September. However, there is no guarantee that this notification will actually be received. That's exactly what we're trying to help you with. My fellow Members and I were talking to people, citizens, who were affected by this, and some of them knew about it, but another part of them did not know about it. Obviously, it is very good that it is mandatory to publish on the website of insurance supervision that the Astra Insurance Company's authorisation has been revoked. Yes, but I'm going to ask you who are the citizens who regularly read the website of insurance supervision. I think that 99 percent of society doesn't read it, and a good part of them don't even know the situation in which the Romanian Astra Insurance is in, that his license has been revoked, that his operating conditions are not in place. They don't even know that. That is why we have proposed that the rules of service would require notification, which would be verifiable, and that there would be an open 15-day deadline for this, and an 8-day deadline for reply, which would be an appropriate legal guarantee for all Hungarian citizens, for all citizens to be aware of the information at all, since it would be mandatory for everyone to know about it, and that they would be given the exact deadlines that they would be able to comply with, and that they would be able to avoid that their compulsory liability insurance would be terminated, thereby making their passenger car uninsured, which would not be a major problem for them, but obviously for the person to whom it would cause damage. In the Committee on Legislative Affairs, in the course of the debate, all that was said about the proposal for a better amendment was that the original bill was more complex in regulating this issue. And I think that the proposal of the Jobbik amendment is more complex, which provides more reassuring regulation. The point of this is that in an uncertain legal situation, which the bill is also good for, because it creates a more secure legal situation than the original uncertain situation, but Jobbik would make it even better with this amendment. We find it odd that we have not received any support in this, and we have not actually received a professional explanation from either Tállai Secretary of State or the Deputy Secretary of State as to why there is no better legal situation at the moment. That is why we have asked for the support of our legislative proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat will continue. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-88	Thank you very much. But before I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, and before Nándor Gúr comes forward in order of business, I will inform Mr Nándor Gúr and the Parliament, who had two minutes' or more intention of speaking on the suspended agenda, that, when this happens, the president in charge of the meeting will ask whether their opposition will be maintained. Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa, Jobbik.
u2015-09-29-89	Mr President, Dear House, I myself do not understand why, if the government finally put a good proposal on the table, it refuses to support, accept, or even plagiarize under its own name, to submit an amendment with the same content as we would like to settle an incredibly serious situation. So what we're trying to do is make sure that no one is left unscathed without their own fault. The question of who has the responsibility for this whole issue has been given, as it is an open secret that, just when we were talking to our co-codification leaders, the press has been talking about what is being done at Astra Insurance and even in this segment for six months, and it is also an open secret that the consumer rights to the Hungarian National Bank could have expected consumer protection to take action in some way by some means. So it is not only symbolic that you have abolished the separate Committee on Consumer Protection, which has been integrated into the Committee on Economic Affairs, thereby reducing the weight of the area in the spirit of symbolism, but unfortunately, the whole system of consumer protection is weakening, decaying, as well as the parts that have entered under the MNB. Here we must mention in one word the policy of the MNB, which, where appropriate, operates with apparent investments and real estate purchases, and once again draw attention to how disastrous a policy this is in the long term, because if we think with a pro-cyclical attitude, in the period of recession, when the MNB should put something of its reserves back on, then what is achieving the greatest impairment. Well, it's exactly the property, exactly the type of investment you're putting these money into, and the ones you're having the hardest time touching in your hour of need. Therefore, we are now calling on you not to move the MNB towards alternative activities, but rather to provide a protective umbrella over the consumer protection system and to rebuild what has been destroyed in recent years. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.30]]
u2015-09-29-90	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2015-09-29-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, the weird thing is that we agree on a lot of things, and here I ask the representatives of the government and my fellow members of the government not to see behind criticism a political agenda that is not in it. So these improving criticisms are more because we have faced a situation that I think is not often or perhaps has never been faced by a particular sector. When the law needs to be amended, because 170,000 motor vehicle owners who have secured their vehicles will remain without insurance or cover, damage events will, of course, still occur. How we should deal with this situation, I think that everyone in this can have suggestions that can be accepted even if they are political in the colors of any party, because this situation, I say once again, needs to be resolved. We do not consider it sufficient that these communications are published on the website of the Hungarian National Bank or Mabis. Obviously, there are also statistics showing how much more frequent visitors visit other websites than these websites. And, of course, we also know, because we can hear them on the radio, see them on television, and the ads are actually coming in to hear them. The question is, of course, whether everyone knows exactly what to do in this case. We believe that, let alone days, but perhaps months may pass, until each insured person is informed that the Astra Insurance Company no longer carries out the task they have signed a contract for. We believe that this is not enough, although we have just heard my fellow Member Pigeon speaking that the insurance company has sent a letter. Maybe the insurance company sent a letter. I'm not sure everyone got that. On the other hand, you wrote in the justification of this legislation that about 4,000 people had been aware of it at the time that your insurance company was no longer in line with the damage they had caused when the damage had already occurred, and they were told that this insurance company was no longer going to pay for you. I think that, by the way, in agreement with my colleague before me, that the MNB, on the basis of the data of the bond register, would be quite calmly able to carry out the task of carrying out either information or other tasks that would assist consumer protection and help insured persons. You could be of great help to the 170,000 bondholders who took out insurance, and now this insurance company can't take his place. However, this legislation does not provide for the situation of other customers, I am talking about casco or real estate insurance. According to the statement of reasons, you can also make other insurance, and we have heard it in the previous speeches. However, if you have any pending cases, or you accidentally don't have another insurance policy, the legislator doesn't think about that. And if there is any damage, then, let's say, with the Romanian guarantee fund, obviously with credible translations, it can only be done terribly expensively and very circumstantially. I believe that this could have been included or included in this legislation. There's one more thing to tell, of course. We have also heard it from my fellow members of the Government, and we have heard it before in this case why there is no EU insurance fund. Here, of course, it is necessary or possible to ask the government's stakeholders what steps have been taken in this matter, who has been contacted in the European Union, which Directorate-General has been contacted with this initiative. I think it is in any way apparent from this case, and as my fellow Member Pigeon quickly corrected himself, it is always worth it to us, he said that it is a foreign country, then he realized that this is not the case, but a different country, because we are talking about a neighbouring country, which is not a foreign country, but a different country. In diplomacy, that's what they give a lot of money for. In recent times, Hungarian diplomacy is not the most beautiful day, the Hungarian diplomacy, I think it is now living the days when there is no country around us, a country bordering with us, or a European country, about which the Hungarian government would not have an infinitely determined and very, very devastating opinion. I believe that this also results in our diplomats in Romania not being able to ensure that 170 thousand insured people's interests can be properly enforced. We understand that the relationship has deteriorated, and we understand that Romania is not acting carefully or even in violation of EU legislation, and that we need to amend the law. But the government must help our diplomats to have at least one relationship with a neighbouring country - not a foreign country, a neighbouring country - so that they can enforce the interests of 170 thousand insured insurance companies there. The bill, because it points to the right and points to the solution of the problem, will be supported by the Socialist Party faction. We have to solve the problem of 170,000 people. At the same time, we had to draw attention to the shortcomings and the diplomatic situation we are in. This is nothing more than an insurance policy or 170,000 insurance policies, and diplomatically, this country can't handle it at the moment. Of course, we will support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-09-29-92	Thank you, Congressman. The Jobbik Group has 3 minutes 28 seconds left. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-09-29-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There is also one aspect of this whole case that we can safely say: all of the clients of Astra's insurance can be considered injured. After all, they have suffered only by having to do one administration, and they should do it in the coming period. I also think it is a huge problem that the responsibility here is clearly passed on to these people. You could say they're being blackmailed. I mean, the next thing you know, these people are gonna be in a situation like this. If they are not able to conclude a new contract with effect from 1 October, they will have to pay a high coverage fee for those days, under the Insurance Act, until such time as this contract is concluded. So you are being pushed into a deadline, but you are receiving a letter from the Astra Insurance Company, which states in the letter that you acknowledge that the branch is not entitled to reimbursement of insurance premiums by accepting termination by mutual agreement. And then I have to sign to agree to terminate this contract by mutual agreement. There are several insured people who have paid the insurance premiums for the whole year, and these people's insurance premiums are likely to be lost. If I wish to draw a parallel, say, between the Quaestor victims and the victims of the Astra Insurance, then it is incomprehensible to me that, as long as the government has properly dealt with the Quaestor victims, even though those money, by the way, was risk money, risk capital, and tried not to hurt these people, then why doesn't the government take action when it's in its name: compulsory liability insurance. This means that they had to legally take out liability insurance, pay this money for a year, and from now on there is no guarantee that they'll get it back. And here comes what my fellow Members have already talked about, whose responsibility it is that this situation may have developed. We just need to find someone responsible in a state that's trying to function normally. And here it is clear that the Hungarian National Bank has a huge responsibility. I mean, the insurance bill says, "I don't know." If the MNB considers that the existence of a breach of legislation seriously jeopardises the security of the insurance market or the interests of customers, it may take direct action to prevent the creation of new insurance contracts without the above. Now, in 2013, so two years ago, it was read that Astra did not operate properly. And the MNB, let's face it, didn't make it in time. On that basis, I think it is possible to establish the error again. And that is why, since the failure of the Hungarian National Bank can be established, it is important to consider to my fellow Members how we will be able to prevent customers who have paid the insurance premium in advance from suffering any damage and to receive this paid fee in some way. No, I was told in the Legislative Committee by the government that they would be able to enforce their claim against the Romanian state or the organisations there. I don't think for 10-15-20,000 forints, someone's gonna sue, say, the Romanian authorities. Therefore, I say that these people should not be harmed, you should act, because you are on the government. Let's find a way to compensate these people. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-94	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see anyone on the screen. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed. I ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. It says yes. Congressman Dénes Pigeon has the floor. [[12.40]]
u2015-09-29-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the points raised by the Jobbik Group which refer back to what was said at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. I will continue to maintain what was said at the committee meeting, and I will maintain, on behalf of the authors, the bill that we have tabled and which, on the basis of the Commission's proposal, has been submitted to Parliament with an amendment. He's more complex, more comprehensive, and I don't think that Jobbik's proposal should break this complexity, or that this hypothesis would collapse. You may think that this can only be arranged if your proposal is adopted, but we still see that the law and its provisions, under which customers have the opportunity to settle claims, are coherent. I say this decisively in the context of mandatory motor vehicle liability insurance. We therefore shared and continue to accept the argument made by the Deputy State Secretary at the TAB meeting. I would also like to say to my better colleague, Dániel Z. Kárpát, that we should not confuse the MNB's real estate with the MNB's consumer protection activities. I don't want to respond to that part. In addition, the call for action by the Astra-harmed is highlighted on the MNB website and on the Mabis website. I deny that customers do not have the right information, since these two websites only have to be read. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Because everyone is looking at the MNB website!]] If you don't, I don't think it's the fault of the state. In this respect, therefore, I do not consider it acceptable to confuse the surveillance and consumer protection activities of the MNB with real estate. My fellow Member László Szakács mentioned the jurisdiction of the foreign state. I may not have said the word, but I didn't use that term in a political sense, I meant jurisdiction. That this was defined as a different state in the author's comment was only for the sake of publicity, but the jurisdiction of the foreign state is quite different from that of the foreign state. But let's not get into this argument. I don't think it was a rating for the neighboring state. I ask that this bill be adopted after the debate is over. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-09-29-96	Thank you, Congressman Pigeon. Dear Parliament, As decisions can be taken at the earliest on the agreed agenda at 1:15 p.m., I will take a break until then. [[Break: 12.43-13.20President: István Jakabjegyzők: Erzsébet Schmuck and László Földi]]
u2015-09-29-97	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. My fellow Members, please take your seats. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/6244 on the competence of certain courts in civil and criminal matters is hereby established. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that last week we decided on an urgent trial of the bill. T/6244/10. and the summary report by T/624/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 6. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/624/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes to four, with 21 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/624/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes to 26, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/6353 on the amendment of certain insurance legislation in the context of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision today, the bill will be discussed by the Parliament with a derogation from house rules. T/6353/4. T/6353/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/6353/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/6353 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/6391. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In doing so, he suggests that instead of Ferenc Hirt, he choose Gábor Zombor, as a member of the Committee on Enterprise Development, instead of Ákos Kara, Ference Hirt as a member of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 163 votes in favour, unanimously, without voting against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are unable to participate in the further work of the Parliament because of an urgent public task, to leave the Chamber quietly. Those who remain, please take their seats. Dear Parliament, It follows that Act C of 2014 amending Act C on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will be T/6290. Bill No.2 and the 2014 XX list of Ministrys of Hungary Act and Act XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. T/6291. Continue the general debate on the joint legislative proposal No.3 until closure. I would like to remind you that this morning the opening speech of the rapporteur, the speech of the lead speaker, and the speakers who had made their views known, were held by the president and the debate was adjourned. I would like to ask if one of my fellow Members who had previously applied for this speech would like to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-29-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry it had to be suspended in the previous round, because at that time we were in the medium that we had discussed almost the item on the agenda, and then we had a half-hour break, so we could have pretty much finished it. But that's how we accepted today's script, so obviously the president had to act on it. I will return to the discussion of the item on the agenda as a reminder, and I would like to begin by saying that it is obviously when two people, where appropriate, Mr Lazarus and Mr Rogán's personal relationship, their personal relationship, determine the evolution of the story, that is not very good. But I do not want to draw out the relationship they have with each other or how they feel about each other, but rather I want to strengthen the part that my fellow Members know the legislative agenda, you know, when we adopted it, there was no shadow in this legislative agenda, not even that there would be a government change here, and that a new ministry would be brought to life. [[13.30]] Of course, life makes progress, but if there is a plan foresight in these things, then I think that it would have been possible to anticipate for a month what the Prime Minister wanted, or how he might want to resolve any personal contradictions or disagreements about which he intends to bring a new ministry to life. Anyway, the point is that the fight for position and the struggle for the grabbing of power has brought to us what is now presented in this draft law, that our fellow Member Rogán is likely to win the ministerial position of this Ministry, and thus in practice he will be in a position to continue his work in the immediate vicinity of Viktor Orbán. The essence of the matter is, in effect, that this political coordination, which we are talking about, is, to say, the call to life of propaganda and propaganda. The task has already been carried out, resources have already been spent on it, and whoever wanted it has seen how government communication and party communication, Fidesz's communication, and how its financing background is drawn. They're putting this in a frame of this type. What is perhaps painful about this story is that it is done by virtually nothing in the budget can be confirmed by it, I mean, it doesn't show. Technically, this bill refers to the government's authority to decide what financing background will be behind this department. It can be done, so I do not object to the fact that it cannot be done, but to the fact that Parliament's role as a monitoring body is emerging when there is a new title, and the new title clearly and clearly shows where the resources are from which resources are generated, the scale of resources that will effectively provide the conditions for operation. The other, which takes on a bit of an organizational whimsical character, is that, in one paragraph, it seems as if the minister is controlling the cabinet of his own cabinet office, including the head of the organizational cabinet itself, and in the other passage, he returns as if the chief of staff were operating under the direct direction of the Prime Minister, so I really feel unclear about the draft bill he submitted in this respect. It would be worth clarifying who is now the head of the organizational chief of staff, the minister or the prime minister. In this sense, will the Minister stand there only as such an addressed puppet and the Prime Minister do what he sees fit to do, or is it really the Minister who disperses on these issues? Of course, I'm not surprised at anything, because if we look at the activity of the past, if friends, the pereputty, anyone needed a source, then they made public procurements that they didn't do, or I have to add that they started processes that were public procurement. What I'm trying to say is that, in any sense, who is running the organizational chief of staff I've just proposed, the ultimate goal is, in fact, and the form of implementation, that it will be what the Prime Minister wants to enforce. But the same is true - I put it in quotes - in line with the sales of the country. There has already been a discussion about the sale of V. district real estate, the settlement policy and many other things, and I do not wish to go into repetitions, but I just want to say that they are once again based on the idea that these stories seem to operate on some kind of central instruction, and no matter who is in the middle, who is at a certain point in the intermediate steps, the Prime Minister, if he initiates, orders, demands - no matter what concepts we formulate - this will be achieved. What I'm trying to say is, of course, I see that the Prime Minister is grateful, because if someone does what he expects, then if he has to, he'll put a velvet chair under it. I don't know if this is the best format, so should we do what it is, really government restructuring, or should we say hell no. It's not! It's all about mutual service for your friends, or about satisfying them in quotes. What is shameful to me is that, if you look at it, my fellow Members, I do not think that so many have read it from the pro-government side, I suggest you do it - the general justification and the detailed explanation are four and a half rows - four and a half rows! - and it's literally the same as each other. You see, the general and detailed justification consists of four and a half lines and is literally the same as each other. I'm telling you, finding the new chapter, creating it, is obviously bringing in the new costs that the government wishes to decide on its own. This is not good because Parliament cannot see, see what is what for, from where, how the government intends to create. What is still essential in connection with this and with what has been said in the debate is that, when we do not see the background of these resources, the source needs, we are aware that during the course of the past years, no matter what we are talking about, education, health, social policy, the world of work, in these matters, the sum of 100 billion forints each; in education policy, 100 billion forints forints; in health policy and health care, several hundred billion forints per year, 300 billion forints per year. But I can also say that in social policy, where there are four and a half million people living below the minimum living age, where 2.2 million people in Hungary are earning below the minimum living age of 4 million people - placed in quotes - or otherwise 1.3 million people, according to the NAV, are earning minimum or less. Therefore, from the point of view of resource management, it should not be about propaganda if they are serious about pursuing an honorable, human interest activity, but it should be confirmed that the people who are today [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] at the level of wages and income, they live their lives under tighter conditions than they do, and they can live their lives a little better. You know, you remember that a million new taxpayers were promised jobs six years ago; one million new taxpayers' jobs in the economy. They know none of this happened. They also know that wages... - statistically yes, so let's not be unfair, statistically yes, because Hungary has been left by some 500 thousand people, especially young people, economically active, of which hundreds of thousands are included in today's statistical records. In public employment there are between 150 and 200 thousand people more, and they statistically improve indicators, but they are not actually yield-producing items. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Does this belong here? You're not talking about the subject, Mr. President.]] Yes, Mr Secretary of State, we need to talk about this because it is closely linked to what we cannot see, that the conditions and financing conditions of this draft law within the framework of the Ministry to be established are the backgrounds of what, how and how they will be drawn. Will they continue to take resources from these surfaces in an even greater way and make propaganda out of it? Shouldn't we turn this around and focus resources where people can benefit? [[13.40]] While we are talking about wage policy, I must also add that you should look at it, and at last think a little about advertising on posters that the minimum wage is rising again, while there is a minimum wage of less value in the hands of people, in their pockets than it was five years ago, six years ago. So, you don't have to play a role in the production of lies, and you have to take it to the highest possible level, but you have to do things for the benefit of people, for the benefit of people. I would like to add it anyway, because my fellow Member has raised it, although I no longer see my fellow Member Mihály Witzmann in the Chamber, he said why we do not talk about positive things in this regard, such as the development of public debt, employment or wages. I will tell you in this 2-3 minute period that in April 2010 Hungary had 19 340 billion forints of public debt. You know how much now, don't you? I use June 2015 data: 25 258 billion. This government debt is nearly HUF 6,000 billion more - nearly HUF 6,000 billion more! - as it was during the 2010 change of government, while you confiscated HUF 3000 billion of private pension fund savings, while more than 50 new or increased taxes were introduced, while the country went with a 27 percent VAT key; we know that 1 percent VAT brings revenue of the order of HUF 100-120 billion. In this sense, I have to say that the government debt is not HUF 6000 billion more than it was in 2010. Then I would like to send a message to my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, to see what they have done in this regard. But if I skim this, without it, I will still have to count 6,000 billion more sovereign debt today than in 2010. With regard to employment, there is always talk of more people working in this country. Yes, more people are working, if the economic refugees who have been chased away from here are included, as you are doing through the statistics, that if we count the public workers employed for hunger as equivalent, as those who fill jobs in the economy producing tax forints... - it doesn't fill it, we all know that they are employed on a temporary basis, for hunger. Marcell Zsiga told me that 47,000 forints could make a living, some connected to this story. I think you can't make a living, and you can't even make a living on the minimum wage that's worth 5 thousand forints less than it was in 2010. Thus, a number of other factors could be added to the employment policy as to how and how this story is manipulated. But if I have to say two more thoughts to my fellow Member Witzmann about the wage, then I would like to note that besides the HUF 47,000 in public employment - now HUF 52 thousand - they also deny the issue of the minimum wage, they do not want to show it anymore, simply because they see that this is not useful for your policy, because the scissors are growing between the minimum wage and the minimum wage. At the minimum wage, I told you that the people who earn this amount will go home with 5 thousand forints less worth of money in their pockets. And if we are thinking of civil servants, civil servants, government people, I would also add that, while the minister is going to take up 30 percent of his ministerial salary and the representative's allowance, during the period of six years, the government did not change the civil servant's salary on one occasion, and it was HUF 38 650 forints per penny, and now six years ago. What I'm trying to say is that if there is a source, there would be a place to put it; not to bring propagandaistry to life and not to submit ministerial positions to my friends, because that should not be the goal, it should not be the goal, but the goal should be for people to live more acceptablely in Hungary. Mr. President, thank you.
u2015-09-29-99	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-29-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the item on the agenda, it was interesting to hear what arguments the government and the pro-government representatives have, and two arguments have taken up the main line here, and two arguments have been made at the main reference base for a separate ministry, which was, on the one hand, that five years of government experience have brought about the need for such a transformation, and, on the other hand, what Gergely Gulyás said - I think both of them from his mouth - that international examples support the need for such a transformation, and that the tasks relating to the person of the Prime Minister's Office and the Prime Minister's Office should be shared in this way. Well, what has been suggested in this regard is that the government has the right to form an organisation, of course, and it is true, and we can even say that they could have derived such a conclusion based on the experience of five years, and that international examples support it, but, if we look a little more closely, those ministries can be classified, but I would now like to defend a single ministry, which is also supported by the fact that the experience of five years should have crystallized, that it needs an independent ministry, and that international examples show that it needs a separate ministry, for example, in the proposal before us, the independent Ministry of Health could also be at a separate address, because it also has its professional arguments and professional justification. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement did not invent the need for an independent Ministry of Health, for example, but it was invented by the profession, which would make the communication routes shorter, which would now come from the professional side with a huge metaphor to make the highest decision of the Ministry or the Ministry. Thus, the lengthy referrals, such as the Secretary-General of State and Minister of State in the process of professional consultation, could provide a much shorter path, and on the other hand, a self-contained ministry would allow for much more effective professional communication, and there would not be a case such as spring, but now in the summer, or even in the autumn, a slow-moving discussion on the case of nurses, which will be discussed in front of a number of forums that will have no results at the end. It really seems to have a very serious job in it, but its results are virtually invisible and unappreciable. So it can be said that the experience of five years can support it and the continuing demand of the profession for five years is that an independent Ministry of Health is needed. But it also supports the fact that we are experiencing signs in health care, such as the increase in the debt of health institutions. Practically 80 billion, although when the debt repayment started at the beginning of the year was over 80 billion, there was a 60 billion reduction, and the number did not fall back to 20, but the debt is now at HUF 39 and at the end of the month at HUF 42 billion. But the same five years of experience is that the plan of the career model is under constant development, and there have been constant promises since 2010, almost year after year, someone demands it, someone promises it, and it will not be implemented. This is also a five-year experience from which the government was supposed to see that, in addition to the personal activities of Antal Rogán, it would have been worth including a separate Ministry of Health and the necessary budget line, because this is the unified desire of the profession. But what is not about the five years of experience, but also about the international outlook, if you enter that you will find nothing in Google's search engine, of course, under the Hungarian name of the Ministry of Health, because there is no such ministry. On the other hand, if you hit this in any existing European language, you will see that from the United Kingdom - as an example, Gergely Gulyás referred to how such a cabinet system works there, or a ministerial system for the Prime Minister's person - well, there is a separate body in this UK for this, the department of health, which is practically their Ministry of Health, and which has been operating independently since 1988, i.e. since 27 years. Before that, he supervised this area together with social security, and now he specializes in health care; so he has a 27-year-old undisturbed tradition. So if we want to introduce new and government-loved western examples, then we can also safely establish that we will have an independent Ministry of Health. After all, it does not have to be unknown to the Orbán government either, there was an independent ministry between 1998 and 2002, and I would note here how good it is for the socialists to suggest that they too are fighting for an independent ministry when they themselves abolished the independent ministry in 2002. So, in fact, they demand something from the government - I think a little bit uncredited - which they themselves did not share in 2002, and, by the way, until 2004, they re-established and gave entitlement to such fragmentation, so that it would not become an independent ministry. [[13.50]] But international, Western examples are not the only ones to come up with. There is also an independent Ministry of Health in Romania, but there is also a system in Italy, France and Germany, which is perhaps one of the largest systems in addition to education, a coherent, independent state system, and this is also shown by the use of the budget, which must be given priority. Although Fidesz seems to have been misled by the decline in the GDP-to-GDP-to-GDP ratio as expressed in the report, it seems to be based on the fact that an independent Ministry of Health is becoming less and less necessary, since they have succeeded in implementing the act of reducing spending on a GDP-to-GDP ratio from practically 5.6 per cent to 4.7 per cent. Meanwhile, they said that GDP had increased during this period. So health care is practically not financed. By the way, we understand why they do not want to have a separate Ministry of Health on Fidesz's side, because, not only can they not name an independent minister, they have not been able to name a State Secretary for Health for a month. So we believe that they would be in serious trouble when they were supposed to say who the minister would be, because they couldn't even name the Secretary of State himself. So it would be practically very difficult for them to choose the right person. By the way, I don't resent any of the Fidesz politicians, no one wants to sit on a ship that goes down every year and basically embodies failed health policy in Fidesz and sign up to the list of otherwise fallen health politicians where, apparently, professionals are becoming less and less eager to get there. So I think that if the arguments put forward - and this is the five years of government experience - have been taken out, then they have so far been wrong to say that we do not need an independent Ministry of Health. Yes, you do. So let there be five years of experience, let the international example also prevail when we talk about the Ministry of Health and its autonomy, and not only when it is given to Andy Vajna to Antal Rogán - if this is the case with a ministry, let it work with a number of people, whoever the influence is. Of course, you're laughing at this, but if you happen to find a contract in the future cabinet that indicates the relationship between the two people mentioned, then I think you won't be so happy with the smile on your face. So in any case, I would like to confirm that it is the five-year experience, the international examples consistently show and would have justified that in this bill there should be on its own, in a separate text, or in the budget, an independent Ministry of Health, which, I say, is not Jobbik, but the profession itself, the health professionals, the people working in health care, but in addition, the patients have been demanding for five years now. Please hear their voices, too. We are here to interpret their expectations, and when there is such an opportunity, you should also hear their voices, and indeed complement the ranks of the ministries with a separate Ministry of Health, responsible for the area. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2015-09-29-102	Thank you very much. I applied for a brief two-minute speech for two things. One: I would like to tell my fellow Member Luke that, yes, there are also political mistakes that can be made, unfortunately. My personal position today is that healthcare deserves an independent ministry. Yes, education policy deserves an independent ministry. Yeah, work, social policy issues deserve a self-defense ministry. Yes, I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party, as well as Jobbik, who considers himself a virgin, has certainly made such mistakes, does not boast or do not stand up to very much to defend, let us say, fellow MEPs who, where appropriate, have made the enforcement of their policies questionable. And there are thousands of other examples. Unfortunately, yes, there is a mistake in politics. It's not good to make mistakes, but in your way of life, in your short life, there has been, and there will be. The other question, which I would like to express with great respect to pro-government politicians, is - with one sentence - that it is not to focus on the fulfillment of their own political goals when, say, a propagandaistry is being brought to life. It's about taking action for people, and it's about getting stronger in you. Believe me, it brings more content, more support for you and everyone else. I would simply like to say that we should focus more on the forces that are in the interests of the people. To create real jobs, to produce tax forints in the economy, to provide people with better-paying jobs so that they do not leave this country. Don't bring propaganda to life. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-09-29-103	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said on behalf of the rapporteurs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-09-29-104	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In today's debate, there has been very little talk about the concrete proposal, in contrast to many others, in the context of comments about János Lázár, Antal Rogán, or even the government's insufferable attacks on the proposal. I must reject these here and now to the fellow Members. As regards the individual speeches, I would like to say that Gergely Bárándy, who is no longer here, said, as a speaker, that only the person who is a minister should be a Member, so is the case in the British Islands. In this case, this is the case, since Antal Rogán is a faction leader at Fidesz. And if we're gonna remember the recent events, we're gonna have to clean up the Socialist Party. Let us remember that Ference Gyurcsány was elected by the Socialists as Prime Minister, I do not know how many congresses he was elected, he did not have a mandate, and after that, Interim Minister Gordon Bajnai also entered Parliament as Prime Minister without a mandate. So I think that these are inappropriate remarks, even if Nándor Gúr wants to explain this, but he does not succeed. As regards the speech by Mr Tóth, who dealt with the presentation in the budgetary context, he obviously anticipated it in his speech because he was not in the Expo, so he did not hear what I said that was legal, that the proposal was in line with the Constitution, and that it could be filled in with content both for 2015 and then for the 16th. And the fact that he is the budgetary expert is obvious that his world record inspires him to speak in budgetary matters, because perhaps the Pécs remember in particular that he managed to receive a reward of twice a million in one day. Then talking about money, talking about budgets, and condemning the government in this regard, I think it's not moral. In general, it has been suggested that the wallet which does not have a minister is not sufficiently represented in Parliament, and that it is less capable of implementing social policy. This generally reflects the sectoral approach that has existed for several decades, which was raised either by the betterman or by the socialist Members or by Mr Schiffer. We broke up with this approach in 2010. We said that the electorate expected a total government performance, so that the EMMI was created, and not the sectoral approach was put to the fore. Let's just think, there have been arguments, too, that if there is no sports department, the number of Olympic gold will be reduced. There is no sports department, I report it, and the number of Olympic golds has increased. If there is no Ministry of Transport, there are no motorways built. On the contrary, there is no Ministry of Transport, yet motorways are being built. And the same is true: the Ministry of Health has a minister, by the way, it's called Zoltán Balog, sitting here not far from me. If you are interpelled or asked about health issues... [[Lajos Korózs: Well, then you won't come to Parliament!]] I'm going to report it to the socialist representatives. You should have yelled like that in the fall. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would also like to conclude by saying that, in our view, governance of government work is the Prime Minister's responsibility. It is said that, on the one hand, the Prime Minister's Office, on the one hand, in the fire of opposition criticism, and, on the other hand, why the task should now be shared. So decide what they want anyway. But no matter what you want, the Prime Minister will decide on this matter. It has freedom of organisation, which can be derived from the Fundamental Law, the Constitutional Court's decision and the possibilities put forward here. [[14.00]] And I would like to say that perhaps a little history: some have not yet been here in Parliament, but Mr Korózs was obviously here when, say, between 2002 and 2006, the Socialist Party changed the list of ministries and the establishment of new ministries, among other things. Overall, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an opportunity for the government, which will be done legally within the legislative framework as a result of Parliament's decision, and that there is every hope that this will only increase and improve government work in the coming period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-09-29-105	Dear Parliament, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his reply to what was said in the debate. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Zoltán Készép, an independent representative, has applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Putin's Pincs" in Europe. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-29-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a former fidesz, I am speaking primarily to the new Fidesz people who have not experienced the civic values in Fidesz, because in 2007 András Wermer said in a major interview that Fidesz had already abandoned it. It was an important year for Fidesz, by the way, and I must admit that Viktor Orbán was right about very important issues at the time. Putin's finches have grown in Europe, and everyone is beginning to see this as dangerous, for example, with harsh words, but no doubt he was justified by time. Even then, Russia was extremely conscious about the sharing of the European Union, perhaps in words or even in those, of the European values of the West and of governments that were not faithful and the development of dependence with the unstable states. Today, it is no longer taboo that since then, unfortunately, shopping from the former Soviet Union has also been done in Hungary. The not-so-enthusiastic debate is more about the extent of this shopping, as it does not matter how long the Moscow shopping list is and exactly what items are on it. In any case, it is hardly debatable that under the Orbán system, Russian influence has become disturbingly significant in Hungarian public life and in the public. Hungary has nothing to do with the East, because there is no laurel for us, only subjection and vulnerability - that is also what Viktor Orbán said, it is true, even before the super secret and absolutely rushed Paks II, which led our country into a debt trap. a contract with Vladimir Putin, the main Eurasian expert on subjection and vulnerability. And today we have reached the point where the Hungarian Prime Minister is lobbying for Russia's interests at the European Union summit on the refugee crisis as if he were an ambassador to Moscow in Brussels. And the result of the sword chirping was that he had achieved that he would not take 54,000 people from us to other countries. That's how the Prime Minister defended the country. Sadly, the leaders of Hungarian diplomacy make our country ridiculous in the eyes of the world. The Prime Minister's war rhetoric not only got caught up in the leaders of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who lost their authority, but in diplomacy it resulted in unusually aggressive and agitated rushes. After Henry Kissinger's Ping-Pong degree, Viktor Orbán's right-hand man, Péter Szijjártó invented fusal diplomacy, which he also plays for self-goal. As we know, the world of Orbán is a traditional opponent of the European Union, the United States and the larger part of the world, but we are also getting a series of goals from our neighbours and our former allies. The Italian Prime Minister has just said that Hungary is the real risk for Europe. We also managed to bring the Hungarian-Croatian affair to a historic low point, and we threaten Austria as if we were in 1848, even though we weren't with the Russians at the time. Every day we try to teach Romania a lesson in an infantile communication war, which sometimes has the nature of a tavern storm. Even the Turkish head of state Erdogan, which cannot be accused of democratic bias, has reprimanded his best student because of barbed wire diplomacy. We laugh at Berlin because it doesn't have much weight, and with the Poles and the Ukrainians, we have already managed to break down confidence in the putin model by admiring it. But we also lecture Sweden, France and anyone who comes across. Only Moscow and the great friend of the Hungarians, Robert Fico, are allies. The relationship with the neighbours and Europe has deteriorated to such an extent that this can provide the necessary basis for the Prime Minister's further barbed wire construction plans, which could sooner or later assume a complete seven-way border lock. Because this is simply the logic and dynamics of orbánian thinking. Unfortunately, it not only builds walls among Hungarians, but also completely lacks a culture of cooperation. He believes only in pushing the other, but, ladies and gentlemen, we will still have to live with our neighbours after the refugee crisis. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the new Fidesz Members to the fact that the Prime Minister had not only foreseen Putin's finches for a few years, but in 2007 he predicted the gigantic emigration wave of his governance that had not yet begun. The greatest danger is that mass exodus from Hungary can take place, our best forces will leave us and those whose work will keep this country afloat. The social crisis means that Hungary is moving towards the East again. To countries like Russia where most Rolls Royce are sold, but where the poor sea is the widest. But obviously there is nothing surprising about these words, as you can follow this record speed and never stop spinning between ideologies, national interests and daily PR ideas. It's a dizzy journey from election to election. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-09-29-107	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has withdrawn from her speech. Dear Parliament, I declare that László Varju has withdrawn from his speech after the agenda. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group, asked for a speech with the title II., "Infinite Flood." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-29-108	Mr President, Dear House, When Jobbik's Debrecen representative Gergely Kulcsár gave the first warning years ago in connection with the conflicts that arose in the vicinity of the so-called refugee hostel in Debrecen, the wider public did not notice the problem, but there was a pro-government representative who simply called it moods and alarms that the bettermans made it perfectly legitimate to say that the incoming migrants, while in contact with the civilian population, display amazing behaviour; often, not only in the form of violations, but also through criminal categories, violate the everyday life, interests, objective security, or subjective sense of security of the civilian population. We can say that, fortunately, what we are talking about has become the subject of the wider public discourse, which, by the way, socialist and liberal Members said six months ago that it is not a real phenomenon to talk about migration crises in Hungary, because the government is creating this issue, but there is no such case in Hungary. Fortunately, these forces have now awakened from their multi-annual dream, and they acknowledge that what is happening to Hungary is a consciously, mostly well-organized disaster, which will be realized at the same time in the image of an invasion, and will also anticipate the image of a kind of population exchange if the government of Hungary continues to be unable to act in substance against hundreds of thousands of migrations, and let European so-called liberal forces, otherwise in a much wider sense, fight to deploy thousands of people here, either by quota or repatriate, to Hungary, who can create tens of thousands of migrant enclaves during their family reunifications, or even more of them. This is already the model of the western European type of no go zones, where there will be a flood of foreign immigrants with explosive growth against the ageing population, and it is obvious that this raises a whole new type of conflicts in Hungary's life; conflicts that we bettermen are not willing to take on and we are doing everything we can to prevent this very dark vision. Where can we see the main problem? If a migrant in the crisis zones concerned thinks that he or she is going to move towards a safe region, let us look at where he can take the course: in about four directions; among them, so-called democracies, who will teach us how to deal with aliens and how to respect human rights at all. You can go to Australia, where failure is almost guaranteed, because if the affected person gets there across the sea, the chances of success in assessing his request for asylum are zero. You could go, say, to the United States of America, which protects its southern borders with a series of roughest walls and fences, and practically surrounds itself in that sense. [[14.10]] We are talking about one of the supposed home countries of democracy, at least in terms of the quantity and quality of education, but it is also apparent that the majority of the affected conflict groups, the vast majority, are not engaged in the reception of larger migrant masses. We would expect those affected to seek refuge in the neighbouring Islamic countries, but interestingly, some of the richer of these countries simply stated that they refused to take part in this form of settlement. One even argued that it would contribute to the settlement, though, by building mosques in Europe, rather than taking migrants, so-called refugees, from their neighbourhood. The fourth of the four great directions remains, therefore, Europe, which, in fact, lays out the carpet to its invaders in exceptional ways, even on a truly amazing world-historical level, rather than taking meaningful countermeasures. That is why we, Jobbik, say that, as long as this is the case, the flood will replace itself, and if we learn about the demographic trends in Africa, and that previous softer and tougher dictatorships and their states' screening functions have ceased, it is clear that the number of migrants around 10,000 per day that we face will not be unusual in the coming years or even decades. That is why we demand from the government of Hungary once again that it not only deal with external border protection - it also does not perform well, but at least we can see how it can be done well - but that it should deal with the amazing future flow from within Europe. So we demand that Hungary does not accept any migrants, either repatriated or under quota, because, as a result of future family reunions, we can face hundreds of thousands of thousands of people in a decade-long perspective, which does not want to fit in, but would create a kind of new home invasion, against which we must act by all means. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-109	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech: - Hands off the railway guards! Or when will the cross-border practice of the government's close-up capitalist view of the railway as their own dairy cows be over? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-09-29-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is well known that there is a huge gap between railway development tasks and the resources at our disposal, which is why Jobbik says that profitable tasks cannot be outsourced from the railway, that is enough. The money taps that fatten private pockets, but cause further losses to the state and thus to the Hungarian people who pay taxes, and in case of greater volume of greed and insolence, the cash pumps must be closed. For many years, Jobbik has been saying and confessing the truth that in this country tenders, outsourcings, should not mean pre-greased distribution of fiefary stalls. We also raised our voice when we had to say that during the construction work of the investments Hungarian businesses would come to the fore where the workers were valued, and the workers were not employed for wages, because if things didn't happen, the moss, price-expensive cartels would mean fabulous wealth for those close to the meat pots, swimming pool luxury palaces, but further poverty for society. At motorway-high-cost railway constructions, we are getting used to it, although we will never accept that the pens of the builders will be very thick in the process of billing, as outsourcings and cartels have resulted in extra-profit damage to the Hungarian state and the Hungarian people. By doing so, resources are also being diverted from very important railway targets. MÁV Vagyonkezelő Zrt., MÁV Ingatlankezelő Kft., MÁV Vasútőr Vagyonvédelmi és Szolgáltató Kft., and MÁV Kert Kft. the merger was decided in accordance with the merger agreement concluded on 25 June 2014. Among them is MÁV Vasútő Kft. in the first ten months of 2014 the balance sheet data show that it achieved more than HUF 3.5 billion in turnover and some HUF 107 million in pre-tax results. The successor company formed by the merger is the MÁV Installation Operator and Vasútőr Kft., which belongs to the MÁV group. I did. There is no problem with this in itself, as Jobbik has raised its voice several times by MÁV Zrt. against taking it into pieces with subsidiaries. On the other hand, according to information that gives no reason to be cheerful, the MÁV Railway Safety and Services Ltd. It would now be outsourced to profitable activities previously carried out by the Commission. Jobbik strongly condemns the fact that, as in Balliberal Times practice, money from the railroad is again being pumped into private pockets with this kind of acquisition. We fully agree with the Railway Union when it is said to keep your hands off the railway guards, as it turns out that the activities involved and the majority of the workers are not the safety of MÁV Zrt. He'd accept it, not reorganize it, but hand it over to outside contractors. More than 2,000 workers and their families have an interest in some of the insider interests of the union called the money-hungry shark. In light of the knowledge of the events, it is not surprising that the negotiating delegation of the Union of Railways considers the behaviour of the employer behind the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of Interior to be outrageous, manipulative and repulsive. Jobbik fully supports the trade union and the employees in ensuring that no activity or any employee from the former Vasútőr Kft. gets into the hands of these money-hungry sharks who want to get rich through the MÁV through state money. Since the railway has had a huge impact on the economy, society since its heroic age, Jobbik has supported the opinion that rail is one of the priorities of the economy on many occasions, in every possible forum. In this connection, we did not forget to confront the government with its earlier creed when, in opposition, it even explained that public transport is a public service, not essentially an economical, corporate issue, the state does not favor its rural citizens when it operates the post, school and railway, but is a fundamental state obligation. However, this will not work in such a way that, like the construction of motorways at the time of the socialists, railway-related activities are now the favorite milk cows of government-friendly capitalists. I also submitted a written question on the matter, and Jobbik published a press release. We would very much like this thing, which I have outlined here, not to do so, but, in the interests of the workers, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian taxpayers, to have a version of the union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-111	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Csizi, Fidesz Group, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title Pécs. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-09-29-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the city's largest catering restaurant was delivered in the largest and most densely populated part of the city of Pécs, the largest catering restaurant in the city of Kertváros. The unrefurbished former diner, which, due to the passing of age and time, gave a retro atmosphere, is now a modern restaurant, XXI. It awaits children with design, atmosphere and, not least, quality on a day-to-day basis. Of course, there would be little in itself to rejoice in the renovation and renewal of a restaurant and to report it here in Parliament. You could say, if that's all that happened at the town catering, it'd be like in a store, the window would be very nicely decorated and renovated by someone, but in the warehouse and in other stores, there's waste. In the city of Pécs, too, the renewal began three years ago in the field of public catering, when the previous contracts inherited almost a decade ago expired, and on the proposal of Mayor Zsolt Páva we were able to examine the technical background and condition of the public catering for the first time. If I say that the restaurant was now renovated with a retro atmosphere, then it is safe to say that a large part of the kitchens are World War I, unfortunately, was in a mood of World War I and unfortunately of quality. [[14.20]] For this reason, we have already made it mandatory for whoever the new provider is to renovate the kitchens at the same time, replace the machines and cook them with modern hygiene requirements for children. I am pleased that the cuisine of the Pécs catering company can also be used to serve Western European standards and be exemplary. Of course, there is little in itself if we renovate the kitchens in the back, it is not enough to cook with cost-effective and modern tools if the quality and taste of the food is inadequate. It is difficult to argue about the tastes of school feeding, as a three-member family can have a long discussion about what is delicious and what is not, and about a large family where 10 800 children are cooked daily, this debate is almost impossible to conduct and should not be accepted. However, efforts should be made to use what and where raw materials are used in cooking. For this reason, already three years ago, we made it mandatory in the publication that the majority of Hungarian and local products should be involved. Perhaps the best way to put the whole change of mind is to put a handful of basil or three tablespoons of crystal sugar in a tomato soup. With such and similar changes, it can now be said that the Pécs public catering has been years ahead of the expectations and guidelines that are already exemplary at national level as of 1 September. I am pleased and proud that, in the course of the changes in September, the Pécs sample was incorporated into several points of the national regulation. I am pleased that the experiences of the past two years could now be used in Hungary in other restaurants and other public catering. And I am pleased that many local governments are now striving to give local and fresh products to children in public catering. So, with a long process of modernization, we have come to, as I have already mentioned to you, that after the kitchen is renewed, restaurants, when children enter, also give a modern atmosphere, and we hope that the quality of food in the cultivated environment is better, and that food is better. It can therefore be said that in the city of Pécs the catering has been replaced by the approach of children's hospitality, and we would like to recommend this approach to the attention of other municipalities and other decision-makers.
u2015-09-29-113	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech with the title of visiting Hungarian football matches at a historic low point. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-29-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. From the sport aspect, there has been a lot of talk about sport during the second and third Orbán governments in recent years, and there is a lot of money flowing into sport. Fidesz fully controlled Hungarian sport, built its own system of control based on corruption and corruption. All we need to do is look at the leadership of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, see the sports associations, where there are pro-government politicians in leadership positions everywhere, in the boards of sports associations, as well as in the leadership chairs of major associations. Unfortunately, these positions also play an important role in the distribution of public money. That is why I say that this is a kind of corruption, that this is how these alliances and associations try to make money. We have repeatedly demanded that politics be withdrawn from the direct management of sport, but the better law amendments to that effect have been rejected by the governing parties. However, we are adamant on this issue, and we will find a way to eliminate the current system of orange domination in sport, as well as to spend public money with strict state control. The best way to show is the sport in which the most money has been spent in the past, football, where it is and how it works, and we think it's a corrupt system. A sports development program was launched within football, where serious billions were spent, mainly for stadium construction and operation of teams. So it could be that a small village now has a football stadium in which you can go, by the way. They built these stadiums, and now let's see if anyone knows what a stadium is. First, it consists of a playground on which the teams play, consisting of the clubhouse, the dressing room, which is the citadel of the management of the particular association, and stands from the bleachers, where the fans and viewers are located. I'm guessing they built these facilities so they could really be viewers and cheerleaders. What do we see in comparison? We find that in the 10th round, 4085 spectators were interested in the most visited NB I match, the Progress-Ison match. And what kind of sport beat this in ratings? A completely traditional, historical Hungarian sport, American football, where 4500 people were at the Hungarian-Czech match. So I'm asking you, is this system working? Probably not, because those fidesz leaders, the little kings who built these stadiums, are now working on not having a viewer in these stadiums. You don't understand why if there's a 20,000 stadium, there's no viewers in it. What would it take to fill the stands with viewers and fans? This is what we should be working on if we've already invested billions in these projects. So what would that take? We need facilities that are now beginning to be given. Then you should be glad that there are still people who want to go to football matches and serve these people. Of course, if there are renegade, law-breaking people who break order in a match, they must be punished and held accountable. But the way to do this is not to make it difficult for these people to go into the stadiums in the first place, but to follow the English example, as my fellow Members constantly refer to different examples. I'll give you an example of an eclatant. The Ferencváros Üllői út Stadium has 350 cameras, and this 350 camera can see every corner of the track and the viewing area. So it should not be difficult for people to go in there, but to build a system that is given by the camera system, so that if someone commits any crime there, then it can be held accountable. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way in our country, and we'd rather have fans chased away, and the stadiums we've spent billions of dollars on are empty. What's the solution? The solution would be that people who do not know about sports just like to bask in the light and glory of sports, get out of sports life, politics in Hungarian, politicians out of sports life, and see if the relevant sports associations, such as the Hungarian Football Association, need renewal. Yes, he needs this renewal to be carried out so that no mamelukes can sit in the Hungarian Football Association, who have not done anything for 20-25 years, only take the money. If there is a Jobbik government, we promise that there will be radical changes in Hungarian sport, in Hungarian football, so that we can really develop. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-115	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda Mr.Előd Novák, Jobbik Group: Mr Orbán was betrayed ten years ago with the title of Viktor Orbán and his associates. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-09-29-116	Dear Parliament, On 26 September 2005, he entered Hungarian history as a black Monday. An enormous opportunity was missed by the parliamentary set at the time when Mr.Orbán's Fidesz speech antagonism of the Gyurcsányek, kicked off his promise a year earlier, and voted unconditionally for Romania's accession to the EU, together with the governing parties. They wanted to commit treason requiring a two-thirds majority, but, among other things, the invitation of the MVSZ, and especially the demonstration of Jobbik's parliamentary assembly, drew attention to it. Among other things, a three-metre wide,....don't be traitors! I ditched a banner with the subtitles "The Parliamentary Chamber" in the vote on the Treaty of Accession of Romania. In the framework of the unexpected demonstration, a 10-metre-wide national ribbon and 386 red, white and green leaflets fell into the Members' necks, which drew attention to the fact that the EU has set several conditions for accession countries, including Romania, and Jobbik believes that the Hungarian Parliament should also set one: autonomy for Transylvanian Hungarians! [[14.30]] I have taken the floor from the gallery of the Chamber; to this day, I am the most proud of my speech in Parliament, by the way, even if I did not speak as a Member. As Viktor Orbán lay low, I was able to warn the honatas loudly that they had the future of Transylvania in their hands, as a country's veto is enough. I asked them to vote on conscience. Finally, thanking the head of the Parliament for the floor, I returned to my seat. The government guards who reached the gallery then led me away, and then, of course, they banned me from the building of Parliament. I couldn't even set foot in here until 2010. At that time, however, the voters have overruled my ban, and as a serious satisfaction, I have come to the church of the nation as an official representative among the besties of Jobbik, which is why I feel the need to remind you of this on the 10th anniversary. In 2005, I was forced to use such house-breaking tools because Jobbik's position on this national strategy issue was almost completely heard by the media, even though it is a huge mistake to put down the most serious weapon of diplomacy against the Soviet Romanian power. Finally, the Mamluks supported the unconditional support of Romania's integration in the EU by a huge majority, with 6 votes against and 1 abstentions. Although, in the days before the vote, the Székely National Council, the Transylvanian Hungarian Civic Association and many well-known personalities, such as Géza Jeszenszky, were asked to contribute to the Romanian accession only if the minority rights of Transylvanian Hungarians were guaranteed in law, there were no representatives from Fidesz who refused to give up the national interest. Orbán's much-spoken national policy, which was also formulated in Tusnádfürdő, remained an act, and after his loud speeches, millions of Hungarians were spit in the face. I quote him: "What do you feel, my dear friends, are the Hungarians who want autonomy or dual citizenship in Szeklerland, but their own do not support them in Budapest? This question was raised by Viktor Orbán in his annual speech, of course, in February 2004. It is not a fair explanation that the opposition is not responsible for anything. On the one hand, because the two-thirds laws, such as the EU Constitution, were voted unconditionally and prematurely, on the other hand, the unconditional Hungarian support for Romania's accession to the EU would have been rejected at 175:173 if opposition representatives had voted 'no'. Moreover, the Hungarian Parliament was not forced to decide. After all, he was in a hurry to ratify the accession treaty as a second. It is worth recalling the issue of 12 August 2004 by the Democrat on the cover of which he published the VÉTO in capitals. In this, József Szájer talked about the possibility of using a veto against the EU admission of Romania if he does not meet the legitimate autonomy demands of indigenous Hungarians. András Bencsik said it harder in his editorial then. The veto to be applied on the issue of Transylvanian autonomy will be decisive in the chances of survival of Hungarians. So it is no exaggeration to say that the relationship with the veto will show in black and white who is not only faithful in empty platitudes, but also in actions to his nation and country, and who is the one who speaks with any knowledge or honey, in fact, is a cheap traitor to the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[György Szilágyi: That's right.]] A year later, it turned out that Viktor Orbán was just a cheap traitor to the nation. To this day, he has not apologized, he has not explained his insolence, his treachery. Romania has become braver and braver ever since. In 2012, Viktor Orbán confessed to the question of my fellow group member István Szávay, and his government did not impose any conditions for the accession of Serbia and Ukraine to the EU. When they come in, maybe they'll ask for something afterwards. But no one buys that smear anymore. Viktor Orbán and his associates must repent and apologize to the Hungarians of Transylvania [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And from our entire nation for the unfulfilled promise. Or else Viktor Orbán will remain, which, according to András Bencsik, has become: in fact, he is just a cheap traitor to the nation. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-09-29-117	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session will take place on 5 October 2015 in accordance with our agreed agenda. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 2:34 p.m.]]
