u2015-03-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Once again, it is my sad duty to inform this House that Gyula Takácsy died in the 78th year of our fellow Member's life on 5 March. Gyula Takácsy obtained his mandate in 1991 from the MDF territorial list in Budapest. Between 1991 and 1994 he was Chairman of the Economic Committee. In 1991 he was the founding president of the Hungarian Investment and Development Bank. Between 1998 and 2000, MÁV Rt. Chairman of the Board of Directors, Minister for the Hungarian Railway Reform. In 2007 he received a bourgeois title from the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people present pay tribute to the memory of Gyula Takácsy.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, In its resolution adopted in 2014, the Parliament declared 16 March as the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, the 21st of 1848 on the national colour and coat of arms of the country. to commemorate the adoption of a law. The introduction of national colours and coat of arms into law was the achievement of the 1848 Revolution. Our flag and coat of arms are symbols that represent the union of our nation, symbolize our relationship with our homeland, and hold the respect of historical traditions inherited from our ancestors. When we remember the national flag and the coat of arms today, we also salute those who have sacrificed their lives or their freedom for our country. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "Treatment on two sides." The congressman has the floor.
u2015-03-16-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, the news came to light that the competent body in Brussels, Euratom, did not approve the part of the Orbán-Putin pact concerning the purchase of fuel. We're in a new situation. [[L. Simon to László:]] No matter how surprised you are, Mr. Secretary. We already knew that in Paks II, the loan repayment period is 21 years in the lower voice, 21 years in the lower voice, before it can be repaid, while, for example, a wind farm investment can be repaid in 6-8 years. We also know that in the credit-refund period, the price of electricity is what Paks II. will be between HUF 27 and HUF 31 per kilowatt if we assume that this power plant will be completed in time; if we assume that there will be no extra cost increase. This price is three times the current price, this price is twice the market price and three to four times the price that can be obtained today, for example, by wind power. However, it is quite certain - but I am sure - that 94 percent of this new nuclear power plant will not be used, and there will certainly be extra costs. Such an extra cost will be the radioactive waste dump planned for Boda, which will amount to an additional HUF 1600 billion, and you plan to do so despite the fact that the citizens of Baranya in Pécs are protesting against it. It is not true what you are saying about the country's energy security, because the conflict in Eastern Europe could put fuel supply at risk, regardless of the Brussels decision, and they are planning a construction based on which 60% of the country's power supply will come from one centre. That's an incredible security risk. The 3000-4000 billion - and not to mention the additional costs now - planned to spend on Paks II, this 3000-4000 billion could otherwise be spent on energy efficiency investments, could be spent on the development of renewable energy sources. This could create jobs, thus strengthening the local economy and reducing Hungary's dependence on imports. It should also be said that the so-called multicultural block, which you are preparing for with the call to Westinghouse, is also a security risk. The fact that materials came from several locations, several channels, various devices for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was there in the spring 2003 malfunction. In 2011 in Ukraine, fuel was prohibited from being sourced from elsewhere in the otherwise Russian nuclear power plant, which they were forced to dissolve in 2014. At the time, this ban was created precisely because of security risks. It should also be said that, as this poker game on the part of Hungary seems to be going on between East and West, the Prime Minister has a card in the poker game in the hands of the Free Trade Agreement between Europe and the US. What we see is that, for example, while the British Government has been hard up against the question of sovereign governments in offshore private courts, Hungary, the Government of Hungary is silent. On the debate day held two weeks ago, they were able to mention only one sector, where Hungary is likely to benefit from certain advantages: this is the automotive industry. [[13.10]] Do you really, Mr Secretary of State, think that Hungary should remain a assembly country, that the nature of the Hungarian national economy must be frozen, that Hungarian workers will be slaving at the assembly plants of multinationals for nothing? They want to push Hungary into a treaty where not only environmental protection, food safety, but labour law protection are also being dismantled. The two pacts share the fact that one of them had the negotiation process encrypted for 30 years and the other had practically all contractual documents encrypted for 30 years. The fact is that the two addictions, the two-sided addictions, do not extinguish, but amplify each other, and the two addictions, combined, could put Hungary's national sovereignty in grave danger. However, there are even more tangible things. One addiction, one betrayal, the Paks Pact threatens to increase the price of electricity up to three times in the coming decades, and on the other hand, the free trade pact between the European Union and America threatens that Hungarian wages and the wages of Hungarian people will never reach European average wages. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The two addictions are at risk that people will earn less and pay more for electricity. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-3	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you very much for Mr Schiffer's questions, both of which highlight an extremely topical and national, national and strategic issue. Let's start with the proposals related to the Paks investment. First of all, it is not an Orbán-Putin pact, but an international treaty, which was voted by the Hungarian Parliament among other things, so any implications that would suggest that this would have been concluded in the form of some kind of opaque deal are to be rejected. Congressman, this investment will pay off over several decades, which is self-evident for a $3,000 billion investment, I think you would have expected a shorter period of payback. He says wind power plants will bring back the investment in six to eight years. I ask if anyone has calculated whether you have calculated how many wind power plants should be built in Hungary to replace the capacity of a $3,000 billion nuclear investment. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is very distorted. Dr. Wind Bernadett: We've calculated it. Dr. András Schiffer: Yes, we have calculated it.]] I'd like to thank you for giving us these numbers.
u2015-03-16-4	Then, when you have the floor, please answer the rhetorical question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-5	Honourable Congressman, Three times the price, that's just not true. The investment in Paks is taking place precisely according to the government's belief that Hungary should operate its economy at competitive energy prices, without competitive prices both Europe and Hungary will fall behind in the global competition in which the US and our competitors are currently in a much more favourable position because of cheap energy. We are, of course, looking forward to the alternatives, Congressman, because each time they tell us why they are too expensive, why they are not transparent, why they are not good, how they could be better, but they never talk about specifics, as is the case with the idea of negotiating the involvement of possible third-party players - which the Hungarian Government does not, by the way, continue, because this is Rosatom's discretionary right - now would reduce or not reduce addiction. So far, they've said that if we only do it with the Russians, it's wrong to involve someone else, it's wrong. Congressman, I'm asking you to outline viable alternatives. As far as the TTIP agreement is concerned, Member, on the 26th, a few days ago, an extensive debate on this was held by the Parliament, and then there were arguments supported by numbers that show that Hungary is certainly, according to our current knowledge - and I would like to stress that, according to our current knowledge, this agreement is in the interests of Hungarian national economy, Hungarian people, Hungarian society, if it is concluded with parameters and conditions that we are aware of today. However, I would like to stress that the support of the Hungarian Government is a conditional grant, Congressman, we will not give a blank cheque to anyone. [[Intercom from the LMP lines.]] We will not give anyone a blank cheque, we will be willing to sign this agreement, and the Hungarian Parliament will have the opportunity to veto it if it does not comply with national interests in all respects. Speaking of bilateral dependence, Mr President, on these two issues, I think that it is unfounded and not sufficiently responsible, because it simply does not take into account geopolitical or geographical deformations and realities, in which Hungary must provide cheap energy in the long term on the one hand and, on the other hand, must be more closely involved in global economic processes, in those relationships in the world economy in which we believe that Hungarian goods, Hungarian know-how and Hungarian services can be competitive. Mr President, let me even briefly point out that the European Union itself is not blocking - as some have said in recent days - the Paks agreement, which is the main depositary of our energy security, because the European Union can objectively prove that it is not in the interest of the investment in Paks, as many have said in recent days. On the one hand, the European Union's current, most important ambition is to create the so-called Energy Union, which is based on the basic concept of a single European competitive energy market, where each consumer, whether industrial, economic or private, can obtain energy at competitive prices because there is competition. Secondly, with the strong involvement of the European Union, in recent years, two important diversification routes, the South Stream and the Nabucco pipeline, have been made impossible by some opponents, a third decision of a political nature against the energy diversification of Hungary, I think that it will not come up at all. And most importantly, Mr President, from your point of view, this is a drastic reduction in CO2 emissions. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-6	At the same time, MEP Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, came forward before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The parliamentary elections were a year ago, and you were given four years of trust, and now there's no doubt that you're going to spend these four years. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] That's what the people, the street voice says, the voters have been cheating on you. The situation of the majority of the people living in Hungary has deteriorated significantly over the past period, and the support of the governing parties has decreased significantly. [[13.20]] Hungary's opinion is also questionable, not only outside, but also inside, by the voters. People's fate, to put it simply, has not turned right. Fidesz is cynical about poverty. As you recall, they offered 47,000 forints of wages to the public - a third of their wage was taken away from their purchasing power - constantly preaching the increase in the minimum wage, while today the minimum wage is worth 5 thousand forints less than in 2010, between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, the scissors are constantly growing, and you do not care for the civil servants, because the civil servant's salary has been stuck, it has not changed for a penny in five years, 38 650 forints. This means that you were the first cycle in which the civil servant's salary did not increase in four years. You've wasted a year, but I can tell you, you've wasted five, and you've hurt people. They ignored voters, ignored opposition parties, professional organisations or trade unions. No one's suggestion, offer, request has ever been important in recent years. They weren't even willing to argue. They're torn away from the voters. We can safely conclude that they have separated from the electorate and are carrying out internal oligarchy faces, the result of which is that this is not only embarrassing but also harmful to the country. There's chaos instead of peace and promised order. They've closed their ears, and they've closed their eyes, and they don't want to know about the world around them. They don't serve the common good in my opinion. Of course, they could have done good, they could have done good, but they didn't. Works, hospitals, mines, and shops have been closed; these questions can be caught in a series. The messages you've written have basically said that everyone's worth as much as you have. Yeah, and the ones with the little ones, they still took me away in the process. A million new taxpayers have been promised jobs - nothing of them - taxpayers, not public employees, 2.2 million people living their lives in this country at least today. Nearly 70 percent of people don't get the average salary. 500,000 to 600,000 people have been made economic refugees in this country. People want a change. They want a change because they know they can't trust you anymore. They don't need hubris and stubborn power, no; they don't need blackmailing, agent-suspecting politicians. No! They are waiting for a real policy for the benefit of the people, and they are right to do so. The Hungarian Socialist Party, by the way, is engaged in dialogue with everyone who is open to this, with any group or organisation, because they want to reach consensus on these issues, because they want to serve the common good, not as you do. We do not want to live in a repressive and not in a exploited country, not where the government exercises power and does not serve. In recent weeks, we have tabled draft parliamentary resolutions to establish a fair, just pension system, to ensure that workers' rights are respected; you have hated them from the hips. We are now making another attempt to address workers' poverty and create new tax-paying jobs that you have promised, but you have done nothing for it. In this we wish to give you a helping hand to live with. I hope you don't throw away your hand. The hardworking people must not only be talked about, but they must be dealt with, not against them. In Hungary, we need real protection of interests, the real power of trade unions to represent interests, and the legal background of this must also be established. The Fidesz gave birth to a labor law that gives unprecedented, cruel, defenseless. The Fidesz didn't do any good on this. It only does not represent the interests of those who are entitled to do so, the employees. Ladies and gentlemen, Little people don't need to be talked about, they need to be in the best interest of the little people. So take action. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-8	The floor is for Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-03-16-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I see that Mr Gúr continues what has already been started at the memorials of the socialists in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County on the occasion of the holiday. In any case, we are very pleased to hear that the MSZP wishes to serve the common good once again in the Hungarian Parliament. It's about time, Your Honour. We are pleased that they have finally recognised their duty, the duty to which my fellow Members have also been sent to the House by the voters. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Honourable Congressman, We have indeed been authorised for four years, and I must reassure the Member that, despite his hope, we will spend these four years, and in the three years ahead, we will also serve the Hungarian voters with decent humility both in the mother country and beyond our borders, honourable Member. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] We're not abandoning the poor. All that you have said about this is not true, this government is committed to eliminating poverty. We are not rocking ourselves in the illusion that this can be done in four years, but we must work continuously and fairly for this. (Noise in the lines of MSZP. ) Asking us to raise the minimum wage, Congressman, from you, cynicism. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The Orbán government is...
u2015-03-16-10	Wasn't the five minutes enough for Congressman Gur? That's enough, isn't it? Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-11	Thank you, Mr. President. It was the Orbán government that significantly increased the minimum wage in both previous cycles. And if you are asking us to see whether we have increased the number of new jobs for the taxpayer, I must say, Mr honourable Member, that first of all we have included those who earn minimum wages in the group of taxpayers, and they are also paying and paying so that their earnings are not reduced. We have created a total of 400,000 new jobs in the last four years. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Honourable Congressman, We are not the ones who are separated from the reality and the countryside of Hungary, but you are. You don't know what's going on in this country, and you've been punished by voters for that. Literally, you and your group said the same things before the elections last year that people wanted a change, that they were fed up with this government, that they sent us to Parliament with two-thirds authority. Honourable Congressman, I was very pleased to read on the MSZP website about the celebrations yesterday and the day before yesterday, which you organized in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. For example, the former mayor of Miskolc, Sándor Káli's municipal representative, praised Arthur Görgey's life. He said that after the light-arming, a lot of people cursed Görgey, considered him a traitor, even though he only took the only rational step. But Görgey stood up to the ground hard, put up with the filth, and history finally proved its point. I quote, literally, Sándor Káli from your website: "You must not believe everything people say about others, because it often turns out, as it is today, that those bastards who are the people who are the people. The Member referred to the fact that in recent years the court has instigated wrongfully accused and accused socialist politicians. As if Sándor Káli had forgotten László Keller's blessed activities, as if he had forgotten all the attempts with which he was constantly trying to dissuade the pro-government politicians who acted in the interests of the country. In any case, Sándor Kali and I warmly recommend to you a former prominent representative of this House, Kálmán Mikszáth. Kálmán Mikszáth has an illustrious novel called New Zrinyász. It wouldn't hurt for the congressman to read it. In the New Zrinias there is a scene in which Zrinyi, resurrected from his graves, meets Arthur Görgey. They introduce them to each other and tell Zrinyi, the great island hero, that he is the greatest hero of our time. And then Zrinyi asks what he did, which makes him the greatest hero of our time. He put the gun down at Light's. By the time Zrinyi said that I didn't understand this, if he was a hero, then I wasn't a hero, I mean Zrinyi, and I didn't deserve to be celebrated as a hero; if I was a hero, then he wouldn't be introduced to me as a hero. All this, honourable Member, is only coming here because you cannot distinguish between those who really are acting in the interests of the country, and are rewarded by voters, from those who have driven this country into a debt spiral, who have destroyed this country. And those are you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-12	We now have Congressman János Volner, member of the Jobbik Group: Where does the irresponsibleness of Fidesz and MSZP lead? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. [[13.30]]
u2015-03-16-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is well known to all of us that a series of broker scandals has recently taken place, which, according to its current position, has suffered HUF 300 billion damage to Hungary. It is worth looking into how credit institutions and brokerage houses that have disappeared the money of local governments, entrepreneurs' money, thousands of private people's money have been able to operate smoothly for years, how they could steal people's money. There are two dozen independent brokerage companies in Hungary, these two dozen independent brokerage companies were neither controlled by socialist governments during their term of office nor verified by the Fidesz government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently talking about the fact that while a Hungarian small entrepreneur is setting up a business, in the first year of his financial year the tax office is already controlling it, whereas several tens and hundreds of billions of forints could be stolen by brokerage companies without once being controlled by financial supervision. It is interesting to see what is happening in this case with the head of financial supervision, who has been managing PSAF for three years, whether they have asked him what he was doing during this period, that he did not have time to check these brokerage companies for three years. The government was so pleased with Károly Szász's work that on the occasion of the 15th of March he also decorated him, and I quote the literal explanation:, because of his key role in the creation of modern and European financial supervision in Hungary, the outstanding results achieved by the continued modernisation of the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Were you so pleased with the work of the PESZF during this period? It is also worth looking at when wisdom comes to what should be done in order to control the financial sector more closely. László Windisch, vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank, visited the Economic Committee and formulated proposals from the Hungarian National Bank to prevent the theft of people's money in the future and to prevent similar brokerage scandals. The Vice-President proposes to reduce the five-year audit period. Fellow Members! In November 2010, I put the proposal on the Parliament's table in writing, which was aimed at this. Fidesz and MSZP voted out this proposal together in a major coalition. The president of the Hungarian National Bank proposes to increase the limit of 20 million HUF management responsibility. Here, take a look. [[He's showing it to me.]] In November 2010, I put down this proposal because of your irresponsibleness and because of the irresponsibleness of the socialists, this proposal was voted out. I'm going to go further: let consumers know, let the IT system be renewed. In November 2010, I also put this proposal down, and Fidesz voted against it in a coalition with the socialists. I asked for deterrent sanctions in the area of consumer protection, to significantly increase the threshold of a ridiculous HUF 100 million fine to HUF 5 billion, and if people are affected by harm, raise the consumer protection fine to HUF 20 billion. What did the government coalition do? The Socialists also voted against this proposal in the Grand Coalition. In total, I made 24 proposals to prevent this brokerage scandal by law. Now Hungary has suffered a HUF 300 billion loss because you take a political position, reject Jobbik's proposals on a political basis, so that you do not have to support forward-looking professional proposals. We believe it is important that the compensation takes place from banks' money, not from taxpayers. We also consider it important for us to see at Csaba Tarsoly, who was familiar with the Quaestor case, what kind of socialist and fidesz-bound businessmen and politicians belonged to it, whether there is one among the Fidesz Members and politicians who has been training his money at Quaestor, and whether this may have something to do with the fact that the credit institution is not counted for several years. I would just like to point out, fellow Members, that, until this moment, Jobbik is the only parliamentary force that has made the family members' declarations of property public. You didn't do that. How many billion forints do we have in Quaestor accounts from socialist and Fidesz politicians? Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2015-03-16-14	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2015-03-16-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, a decade of financial corruption has been revealed in Hungary over the last few weeks, and it is also true that this has to be resolved, what could have caused this to happen in Hungary. What led us here is that people's money, local government's money, public funds have really disappeared, at least according to our current knowledge. What was the result of the financial entrepreneurship sector, some members of the investor sector, that they probably committed a series of crimes? I also assure you, Congressman, that the problems did not begin with the entry of Jobbik into Parliament. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] It was a long time ago. In 2002, at the time of the change of government, the current law required the Socialist Government to check and control financial undertakings every two years. The socialists did not like this, and in 2004 it was essentially abolished by an amendment to the law. It was eliminated by the fact that for five years nothing required the brokers to be checked. And indeed, the PSF at the time did not take advantage of this option, so it did not even check these financial undertakings. So it was five years during the two socialist governments that there was no regulation on how, at what intervals and how to control these financial undertakings in essence. Then, in 2009, under pressure from the IMF, the socialists were forced to change the law and relocate it to five years. But they did well to ensure that the control of the socialist brokerage company Buda-Cash should only begin in the light of the results of the 2010 elections and, in essence, be completed before the change of government. It is also a fact that there were personal overlaps between the then socialist government and the brokerage company; where someone from the brokerage company went to perform government tasks, where after completing government tasks he went back to the socialist brokerage company. [[Continuous, loud noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] It's the same with the other investment firm, Quaestor. What I would like to say here is that only socialist governments gave public money to this company, not just as much: the Hungarian Development Bank gave this investment firm HUF 17 billion, which basically gave it its operation. A very interesting relationship can be observed: the foreign exchange credit scandal, which was established in Hungary in 2009-2010, is basically launched during the same period, under the government of the socialists, around 2004. In 2004, people were persuaded to take on foreign exchange loans, and by 2010 it was clear that these people had been fooled, these people had been deceived, and the Fidesz government had to fix it and fix it. Financial corruption was decades old, and the Fidesz government has not been revealed. However, the first audit carried out within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank immediately revealed this decade-old financial fraud, this decade-long financial corruption. I believe that the Fidesz government acted responsibly when the National Bank of Hungary and PSZEF were merged, because it created the possibility of effective supervision. It is true that this system must be further strengthened. In this respect, the Ministry of National Economy has already prepared a bill which is public and accessible to all parties. We must have a common goal here in Parliament, on which side we are sitting, that in Hungary it will never happen again that someone steals or disappears other people's money. That is why we must create laws in this House so that this cannot happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2015-03-16-16	We now have Congressman Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, who was born 500 years ago under the title Avilai Nagy Szent Teréz.
u2015-03-16-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Just as the discovery of Columbus or the recognition of physics by Albert Einstein somehow affected theology mystique by the great Saint Teresa of Avila. Teresa de Ahumada, commonly known as Saint Teresa of Avila, was born five hundred years ago on March 28, 1515. In view of the circumstances of his life - human calculations - there was little likelihood that his name would be preserved in the memory of mankind. First of all, because in the Spanish golden age he could inherit only virtues and spiritual culture from his ancestors, who had to hide their Jewish merchantage from the world. Second, Teresa often experienced that men who thought they were influential and educated only consider her to be an ignorant woman. Third, because his vocation was in the strict world of a Carmelite monastery, which could hardly have been a chance to become known. In his monastery, he closely followed the events of his day, and he experienced with pain the news of bloody wars between Christians and the evangelizing of the peoples of the newly discovered continent. He couldn't reach the world's powers directly, but he could turn to God himself at any time. He started changing the world with you. He faced his own selfish self with the determined exercise of the virtues needed to live love for another man, to seek truth, and to attain spiritual freedom. In time, other women joined him, building up their community of evangelical simplicity and love, fully relying on God and seeking God's will. His works have made man's inner world accessible to others, so we can interpret him as the forerunner of today's anthropological and psychological sciences. As the first female church doctor of the Catholic Church, Teresa's influence is universal, not exclusively of believing Christians, but also of other religions, and even of atheists who claim to be atheists, as she opens the door - infinitely experienced in us. To the French philosopher Henri Bergson, reading Teresa's works meant meeting the personal and transcendent God. After the long years of agnosticism, the philosopher Edmund Husserl, and his assistant Edith Stein - the recently holy sister Theresa Benedicta Carmelite - finished reading Teresa's autobiography with the following words. The Hungarian Carmelite monk, Father Marcell, commented on Edith Stein's experience with St. Teresa of Avila:. Teresa discovered the law of burdening souls as her contemporary Kepler discovered her bodies. In Teresa's writings, he proclaims the breakthrough of the difficult law when he executes the liberating good news of the ascension of the soul. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's the good news, Teresa's life experience right here, right now, it's for us personally. As he said, our everyday life is like a bad night in a bad hotel. But in our inner world, in our inner castle, we can find the path of perfection to the Infinite, the Actually, the personal Absolute. Thank you for the attention of the Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-18	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2015-03-16-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to continue with a quote from Saint Theresa. I think that it can be addressed to all Members of Parliament: it is important to carry out actions, it is always just actions, because it is not about thinking a lot, it is about loving a lot. I think, regardless of party stand and worldview, this sentence of St. Teresa Avila, a very combative personality, can speak to all of us. As has been said here, it is a mystical saint, who was very strongly motivated by God to continue his warrior nature within the church. She was 18 years old when she secretly left the family house against her parents' will. It was obviously very painful for him, as he said, but his journey led to the Incarnation Monastery, and he felt that it was stronger than the retention of the family house. He had been sick at the beginning, and once he had his grave prepared, but he regained consciousness, and with his own hands he removed the wax, holy wax, which was then put on the eyes of the dead. There are many other miraculous phenomena associated with his name. They said that he had a special light from his face, that he was floating about a meter above the floor during prayer in the temple, which is why they say he was a mystic saint. He himself said his complete conversion by the time he was 40 years old, from then on he was fully dedicated to the service of the church. He founded many monasteries in the strictness of Carmelite life. One monastery followed the other. A total of 17 female and 15 men's monasteries are associated with his name, and of course he started it with only one ducat in his pocket, and what some builders took for six months, yet he convinced them to do these jobs and tasks in two weeks. We can also say that he had a great sense of diplomacy, that he often controlled these constructions. A bishop told me when he was reported asking for permission to establish a new monastery, as an example of his determination, that if Teresa had said so, then that monastery had already been established, there was no need for bishop's approval. But he had a warlike attitude toward other chiefs. Here I would quote one of his letters: "It has long been as difficult for me to read the lines of your grace, and it has never been so good to tear the letter apart. "You," he wrote to the magistrate. So he was unforgiving in his goals five hundred years ago, Saint Teresa, therefore the first teacher, church teacher, to be recognized by the church. It is also important to remember the Hungarian Carmelites, namely Father Marcell Marton, who was born as Boldizsár in 1887, because St. Teresa has been revered as a saint by the whole church, but Father Marton Marcell has just begun his process. He himself studied in the Faculty of Philosophy in Budapest, and, following the fashionable ideologies of the age, left his religion, did not practice his Catholic faith for 16 years, worked as a Hungarian-Latin Greek high school teacher in Zalaegerszeg and elsewhere. At the outbreak of the world war, however, he undertook to go to the front instead of a colleague of a teacher with two children younger than him, and he himself took on the military and the danger of life. He did, and that's the only reason we can all be proud of him. But he returned safely from the war, and when he was 38, he was already an adult, a middle-aged man, entered the Carmelite order. In 1930, he was a priest, lived in Győr for 13 years, and was a national preacher in Hungary, a nationwide confessor. Among his spiritual children are Happy Vilmos Apor, József Mindszenty, whose happiness began, and in the case of Vilmos Happy Apor. In 1950, the order of the monks was dissolved, but he continued his mission, continued his mission. At the time of his death, many said that it was not necessary to pray for him at his grave, but to him, showing the kind of mystical power that was radiating from him, and even in 1973, Cardinal Mindszenty himself asked for the initiation of his happiness on the basis of personal knowledge. However, although the testimony was obtained in the 1970s, it was only possible after the change of regime. It was then that this procedure was launched and in 2006-2008 the position on the basis of which the happy initiation procedure could be launched was completed. On 9 December 2013, he may, on the basis of a papal decision, hold the honorable title within the church. I think we should be proud of the Hungarians who were such examples for everyone who would have sacrificed their own lives for the lives of others and wanted to serve the nation and faith all their lives. We trust him. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm sure we'll soon be able to welcome him to the happy line. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-20	The last of the speeches before the agenda will be Mr.Antal Rogán Group leader, on behalf of Fidesz, with a title on our common affairs. Here you go. [[13.50]]
u2015-03-16-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the genre before the agenda is always suitable to raise current issues, I would like to briefly address three things today in the House of Members before the agenda. One of the important things that I would like to talk about is, indeed, the broker scandals that have defined the last few weeks, the broker scandals that have led to decades of financial abuse. We have passed two hearings on the Committee on Economic Affairs, and it has become clear to me that all of this is due to the fact that the socialist governments and the Socialist majority parliament did not conclude that the rules should be tightened up, but the opposite: from 2004 to 2009, there was virtually no legal obligation in Hungary to control brokerage companies. That's when all the thefts started. And it's not a coincidence. So if one can think that he is otherwise acting unpunished, then he will obviously sooner or later also go on the road, the result of which we can see in the form of decades of financial corruption. The other thing I would like to say to my fellow Members is that these cases have been revealed because, after years of struggle - because we have already initiated this - we have created a merger between the Hungarian National Bank and financial supervisors, with all kinds of financial supervision, and we have created a powerful, firm-handed superpower with all the information that can protect the interests of consumers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that no one has ever managed to land this before, and when the National Bank goes to these companies to check it out, the first day will be the first day of fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, However, we could have done this sooner if you had supported the merger of the National Bank and financial supervisors. [[An intervention in the ranks of the MSZP: You could have done it at any time!]] We did not initiate this for the first time in 2013. No, before that. We would have given András Simor the permissions to do so, but here, among other things, it is not enough that this has been voted out, but even reported in the European Commission, honourable Members. [[Interjection in the ranks of government pairs: That's right!]] It's a problem that I think wouldn't have happened. I do not know if András Simor wanted to check the brokerage companies, I do not know, but we would have given him this opportunity to do it without further ado, fellow Members. And I think that, after all the decisions that have been made, I also ask you to change your opinion, after all, there could be problems like those of brokers in a large part of the financial sector today, if we hadn't been there in the past years, if we hadn't revised the banks, if we hadn't made a law about fair banks if we hadn't settled the foreign exchange credit problems. You have not all supported them here in Parliament, just as you have done to put the savings cooperative system in order, ladies and gentlemen. In the case of savings cooperatives, if we do not do the integration programme, then I think that many people would be in very big trouble in Hungary today, because look at it, 11 financial institutions have been left out of the integration of the savings cooperative, 9 of them are practically bankrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these steps were necessary. First we clean up the banking sector, tidy up the savings banks, and now the brokerage companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that here the National Bank of Hungary and the Government have made their proposals, which I recommend to everyone, and I ask this House to accept them as soon as possible. However, there is one thing that is missing, and on behalf of the Fidesz parliamentary group, I would like to say that we will complement the package of laws to be submitted: we want the people who were the crooked owners and leaders of brokerage companies to be responsible for their personal assets. This is lacking in the proposals submitted. Billions of private assets lie behind the owners, all of them responding to the victims with their entire personal assets saved from the companies. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly mention two issues. Yesterday was our biggest national holiday, the 15th of March. I think that in all the settlements of the country, people have celebrated with dignity - respect for the few exceptions - and I would like to add that here I would like to ask the honourable left-wing opposition parties, in particular, to recall their provocators from the events of the national holiday. When you were on the government in 2006, police were sent to the peaceful celebrations. They can't do that right now, they're sending out provocators. I think, fellow Members, that they are not needed either. [[Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Finally, I would like to say that at the national festival there was a portal, hvg.hu, which, I think, went beyond the borders when, by the way, a Gypsy-born correspondent to public television [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You attacked him very harshly and undeservingly, and I am very surprised that no one in this House has spoken of this, my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-22	Once again, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I would first like to talk about where the compensation is, taking advantage of Parliament's publicity, because it affects more than 100,000 people, and people are very interested in how this is going to happen. First of all, I would like to say that the National Deposit Insurance Fund has started the compensation. The National Deposit Insurance Fund compensates private and legal persons who had a current account or deposit account at DRB Bank. This affects more than 73 thousand individuals and, moreover, farmers, deposit companies, KFTs, companies. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] A total of HUF 103.3 billion of compensation will be paid, which is already available to the Deposit Insurance Fund, and more than that, it has already handed this over to paying banks and to the post office. Here about 90 percent of those affected receive compensation, i.e. over HUF 12.9 billion, which exceeded EUR 100 thousand, and the Deposit Insurance Fund will not be able to pay the person concerned. The Deposit Protection Fund has also begun its work, surveyed the situation, and will soon determine the deadline from which it will be possible to apply. This concerns the brokerage company, not the banks. Here we draw attention to the fact that the compensation is not automatic, but that everyone will have to apply within 90 days of the date specified by the Deposit Protection Fund and then the compensation will start. Therefore, the compensation will not start until the person concerned has applied for compensation. In the Ministry of Interior, the assessment of the damage, resources and funds of the municipalities started. This job is basically headed towards the end. The municipalities have now received from the superintendent how much money they have been stuck in there, which they were able to agree on, and subsequently indicate this on the basis of the information provided by the Ministry of Interior. On this basis, a summary is made, and the government will then be able to decide what kind of support and additional assistance the municipalities will receive. We've also begun to assess the state's involvement. There is no direct involvement here, but indirect involvement is in many places. As an example, European Union funds were stuck in civil society organisations, foundations or companies, serious amounts already received from the State but could not be used. I think that we will also have to do a separate survey, a separate round and make decisions. I would also like to respond to what Mr. Group Leader said that, in order to promote the development of the financial intermediary system, there is indeed a legislative amendment on two lines, both by the Ministry of National Economy and by the Hungarian National Bank. Obviously, these ideas will be agreed, then they will be put before the government in April, and the government will submit them to Parliament. The legislative proposals clearly aim to strengthen financial consumer protection and strengthen control. Instead of five years, we would like to define every three years when supervision is required to carry out a comprehensive audit in financial undertakings. The same is the case with regard to fines. We want to tighten the fines and make the Financial Reconciliation Board's procedure more effective and faster. We would like to change the rules on the Investor Protection Fund, i.e. BEVA, which would be much more favourable for customers, and we would also like to make BEVA work more efficient and faster. [[14.00]] Many, many EU legislation will also be transposed in these legislative proposals, the only and most important objective of which - I stress once again - is to strengthen financial consumer protection, so that such a scandal, which we know little about at present, cannot happen again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the other speakers on the agenda. Here you go, notary.
u2015-03-16-25	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; Márta Demeter, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. On Tuesday's day, the following representatives applied for a speech before the agenda: Bernadett Szél, LMP; István Simicskó, KDNP; Sándor Lezszak, Fidesz; Zoltán Lukács, MSZP; Tamás Sneider, Jobbik. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Márta Demeter, MSZP. On Wednesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Márta Demeter, MSZP. On Thursday, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Ikotity, István LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP and Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2015-03-16-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the House that, with the resignation of Member Tibor Navracsics, Mr Zoltán Kész has acquired an individual mandate as an independent candidate in the parliamentary single mandate district of Veszprém 1. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mr Zoltán Késző's credentials on the basis of the electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, Tibor Navracsics is the Commissioner of the European Commission as of 1 November 2014. On 30 October 2014, Mr Tibor Navracsics resigned his mandate as a joint candidate for Fidesz-KDNP nominating organisations in the 1st constituency of Veszprém County. At the interim election held on 22 February 2015, Zoltán Készt, an independent candidate, obtained the majority of the votes. Election committee of the parliamentary single mandate constituency No. 1 of Veszprém county 54/2015. In its resolution of 26 February 2015, the Parliamentary Individual Constituencies of Mr Zoltán Készép stated that he had obtained a mandate. On 1 March 2015, at 4 p.m., the decision became final. The transfer of the credentials took place on 3 March 2015. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the immunity committee examined the documents required for the mandate of Mr Készép Zoltán at today's meeting. In his statement, Mr President, he indicated that there was no conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise the rights of his representatives. On this basis, the immunity committee unanimously, without abstention or opposition, has taken the following decision:.The immunity committee recommends to Parliament that Mr.Zoltán Készett's mandate be verified. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal to amend the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandate is justified by the Parliament without debate. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies Mr Zoltán Késző's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of Mr Kész Zoltán with 162 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Now I ask Congressman Zoltan Kész to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I ask Mr. Nándor Gúr to read the words of the oath. And I would ask my fellow Members to hear the oath standing. [[The people in this room stand up. Zoltán is ready to step into the center of the room. Nándor Gúr reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-03-16-29	I, Zoltán Késző, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation.
u2015-03-16-30	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr. József Attila Móring to prepare the oath document for signature. The elected Member was asked to give them his signature. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Zolta Késző and gives a copy of the signed oath document. József Tóbias, Dr. András Schiffer, László Varju, Gábor Fodor, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Dr. György Rubovszky, Timea Szabó, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, Antal Rogán and János Fuzik congratulated Zsolt Semjén.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the new Member of Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. Thank you very much. I would ask you to take your place after the congratulations. I would also ask my fellow Members to concentrate on the items on the agenda before us. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the number of Members of Parliament is 198. I would also like to inform you that, at last week's meeting of the House Committee, you proposed a derogation from house rules, which you tabled at today's meeting at Jobbik's request. In this, the House Committee takes the initiative that Annex II should be amended accordingly. H/3033 on the Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi. During the negotiation and decision-making of the resolution proposal, the Parliament shall depart from certain provisions of the house rules in such a way that the decision can take place tomorrow. Details of this and timeframes are set out in H/3033/4. You can get to know him by writing number 1. I would like to inform you that there is a 15-15 minute speaking time for the groups in the debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote four fifths of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 163 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstentions. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, At today's meeting, the House Committee proposed a derogation from further house rules. In this, the House Committee initiates the 2011 CXCV on public finances. T/3871. In the course of the hearing and decision of the Bill No.1, the Parliament shall depart from certain provisions of the House Rules in such a way that the decision can take place tomorrow. Details of this and timeframes are set out in T/3871/1. You can get to know him by writing number 1. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote according to four fifths of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 163 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. I declare that the submission will be held on Monday, on Tuesday, i.e. today and tomorrow after the previous submission. It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The MSZP Group has proposed that T/3783 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The general debate on bill No 1 shall take place on the 18 March sitting as the seventh item instead of the second item on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Fidesz proposes to discuss the proposal at a different time. I therefore ask that anyone who agrees with the MSZP's proposal should vote for a raise of hands. [[Vote.]] It's not a majority. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/3783. The general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 on the subject described above should take place on Wednesday as the first item on the agenda. Those who agree with this, please raise your hands now. Please vote. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group also suggested that T/3784 on chimney sweeping and modification of certain laws relating to fire protection. The general debate on bill No 1 shall take place on 18 March as the eighth item instead of the first item on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fidesz Group proposes to discuss the proposal at a different time. I respectfully ask the Parliament, my fellow Members, that anyone who agrees with the proposal of the MSZP should vote now. [[Vote.]] This apparently did not get the majority, so the Parliament did not accept the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/3784. T/3783. The second item on the agenda should take place on Wednesday, following the discussion of the legislative proposal No. Those who agree with this, please vote now. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the B/802 on the activities and functioning of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2013 1st report and H/3523 on its adoption The speaking time frame for the joint debate of the resolution proposal should be increased from 15 minutes to 25 minutes. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote with a raise of hands now. [[Vote.]] Apparently, it didn't get the majority. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group suggested that from the meeting of the Parliament on Tuesday, CXL 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. T/3751 on the amendment of Act T/3751. The general debate of the legislative proposal No.3 on the environmental product fee for 2011 should be moved to the meeting on Wednesday until the closure. T/3752 amending Act T/3752 Following a general debate on bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote now with a raise of your hands. [[Vote.]] That's a visible majority, thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that on Tuesday's meeting of the Parliament, the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. T/3755. For the general debate of bill No.1 until closure, the 2007 CXXIX on the protection of agricultural land. T/3753 on the amendment of the Act Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 1996 LV on game protection, game management and hunting T/3754 on the amendment of Act T/3754. For the general debate of bill No.3 on forest, forest protection and forestry, pending closure, XXXVII of 2009 T/3755. Following a general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 as a pre-last item. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. T/3785. For the general debate on bill No.3 on wild game protection, game management and hunting, the 1996 LV. T/3754 on the amendment of Act T/3754. The last item on the agenda should be the general debate on the legislative proposal No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda, together with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The House Committee has proposed that the Parliament ask the negotiating committee to decide on certain reports. The house rules are 85. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate, but separately, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 2 (1) of the Act. [[14.20]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will ask the designated Committee on Agriculture to ask B/3566 on the state of the agricultural economy in 2013. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare the resolution: the Parliament invites the designated committee to take a decision with 133 votes in favour, 33 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to ask B/3568 on the operation in 2013 of organisations exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State, on the evolution of the stock of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision with 135 votes, 35 votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated People's Welfare Committee to carry out the tasks set out in the new National Disability Programme and the Action Plan for its implementation on a pro rata basis B/3587. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision 134 yes, 34 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. We are now moving to interpellation negotiations in a 120-minute time frame. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varga, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government intend to do about workers' poverty and poverty? It's an address. The answer will be given in person by Minister. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me point out that this is the first interpellation since the change of regime, which will not be transmitted to the public. I think it's your shame, just like the fact that more than four million people are forced to live below the minimum living standards in this country. More and more people are seeing this. Poverty is therefore growing and growing in the country, and with particular regard to child poverty, some 35 percent of children face serious material deprivation. This is one of the worst numbers in the European Union, even in Romania, but it is worse in Bulgaria. Since 2012, the State has stopped providing money for its annual publication, the Social Report, since 90, and KSH has not published certain research and latest issues on this subject. The minimum living income is a minimum income that can be lived on to a standard that most of society thinks is still just acceptable. About 4.2 million Hungarians and 1.4 million households are forced to make a living from this kind of income. The minimum living amount per person is HUF 87 510. A small but significant number of people living below the minimum are living in more severe poverty or excluded situations, some 3.2 million being the most recent. Under income poverty, at the border or below - this net HUF 66 thousand - some 1.4 million Hungarians are forced to live. This number is among the worst in the European Union. The minimum wage workers bring home some 68,000 forints, that's their net, it's 20,000 forints short of the minimum living, and this amount has lost significantly its real value in recent years. By the way, an ex-researcher at the Centuries Institute proved that. As regards the minimum wage workers, he wrote that your tax system has taken some 80,000 forints from them in recent years, while hundreds of thousands of forints have increased the income of those who have an income of up to million. According to a recent issue, about half of the sja confessions, 2.2 million people live below the minimum living, earning below the minimum living. That's a pretty amazing song. Europe's peak is the VAT rate for a large part of basic food, 27 percent. No wonder, then, that under your government, the poor have become poorer, and the rich have become richer. I ask Minister, is this okay? When will the net value of the minimum wage be adjusted at least to the minimum wage? When will the unfair tax system, which increases social differences and deepens employee poverty, finally be corrected? When will the VAT rate for basic food finally be reduced for the benefit of people? I look forward to your reply, Minister. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister Zoltán Balog. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-03-16-33	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Welcome to television viewers who will be able to see this interpellation on air. [[Zoltán Lukács: Where?]] If everything is true, everything is true as it is. Mr President, Mr President, you said that there are serious problems with the truth. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP, the president's ringing the bell.]] And you can hear the sound of you here, but that's just the way it is, and it's a pretty important subject. I believe that poverty must not only be talked about, but also taken action. I'm glad you're interested in this topic. It is a pity that you are interested in the opposition for the first time, because, despite your young age, you voted for measures that seriously affected the income conditions of Hungarian families. If I remember correctly, you have been a member of the Hungarian Parliament since 2006, and when you were included, you voted immediately on your third working day for measures, the first austerity package of the Gyurcsány government, which raised the VAT rates for which you are now speaking significantly from 15 to 20 percent. By the way, on his third day, he voted to increase the contributions, thereby reducing the net income of people living at work, which he is now asking us to account for. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP, the president's ringing the bell.]] They also decided on that day that some of them were sitting here in this faction, so you should contact your neighbour, Member, who voted for a health contribution instead of an accident contribution for retired entrepreneurs, so that this contribution immediately increased from 5 percent to 15 percent. You have introduced the post-aid tax, which has seriously rejected the donation. And you may remember that in 2008, Hungary was also experiencing an unforeseen crisis within Europe, and governments reacted in different ways, such as your socialist government. Allow me to quote Zsuzsa Ferge, who cannot be accused of being particularly sympathetic to right-wing governments, as he did to your government, he said literally a few weeks ago: in 2008 Hungary was the only state to have suffered a crisis, which did nothing, nothing at all, not a match, so that something would happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. Such a country has not yet had one, at least everywhere the unemployment benefits or benefits or something else have been extended. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. The quote is from Zsuzsa Ferge so far. Let me add that you are not entirely right, because you have done something: you have further raised the VAT that you are now asking us to account for. I think we can agree that these measures have not helped. Now, let's look at your numerology in this case. Last year, it was an election campaign year, they were talking about 4.8 million people living below the minimum living age, almost half the country. Now you mention $4 million. I could also say that if I didn't have methodological and other concerns that you thought the Orbán government had reduced the number of poor by 800,000. The only reason I'm not saying this is because I'm trying to avoid the populism that you represent here. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] However, it is worth looking at the exact figures: compared to 2012, the number of people affected by poverty or social exclusion decreased significantly by 241 thousand in 2013, from 33.5 percent to 31.1 percent in the EU. The number of people living in households with low labour intensity decreased by 36,000, the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation by 282,000, 3 percentage points, to 2 million 341 thousand. Of course, one out of the poor is many, but it's 241 thousand less, and I think it's a joyful development after all. And if we talk about the workers, today, compared to 2010, a three-year-old unemployed family with one school or two kindergarten children will receive an extra 30 thousand HUF per month from the budget, otherwise working in public employment. These families, I think, live better than they lived in your time, and we will continue this direction, because employment policy is the best social policy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2015-03-16-34	Thank you very much, Minister. I just want to inform the House that M1 is mediating the interpellations, so I made this announcement in order to avoid further debates. The floor now belongs to Congressman László Varga. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-35	Indeed, and an Internet portal will, as the meeting has been broadcast on the Internet, so you can obviously analyze this, and this is how a significant holiday of Hungarian freedom of the press was held. So I still think it's a shame. [[Noise, interrogations from Fidesz: That you are lying! Shame! The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to inform you that I have interpelled you, and, by the way, I would like to inform you that you have been ruling for five years; in short, good morning, Minister. Differences in Hungarian society have increased significantly over the last five years, and this is proven by all kinds of data. There has been a significant increase in the number of people living below the minimum of living by over a million. All kinds of data proves that, even if you don't talk about it, because you're talking about something else and you're wrong. It did not inform the public that around 27 percent of VAT was on almost all basic foods. This is Europe's summit. Good morning, Minister. VAT rates for basic foods should also be reduced. He didn't mention when they wanted to adjust the minimum wage to the minimum wage, in short, he was deluded. They are not acting in the interests of Hungarian society, so I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-36	Congressman did not accept the Minister's reply, so I ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 105 votes in favour, 53 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Have the government noticed that, in the absence of meaningful work and productive activity, the public work programme has failed? It's an address. I would like to inform the House that Minister Mihály Varga will answer on behalf of Minister Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, According to Jobbik's view, the national community service program has been abandoned, and it has failed today. Unfortunately, this is also true if you are supposed to give more than 200,000 people a job in the national public works programme, but in practice, as there is little meaningful production activity within the public works programme, the public works system is now empty and has lost its meaning. It is worth recalling the research carried out by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in this regard, according to which the more time spent in the national public works system, the less chance this person has of ever returning to the primary labour market. Mr. Secretary of State says here on a regular basis that it is not true that public workers do not perform meaningful productive activities, but we see that very few people living in public works in the countryside, I myself am living in a farm, I have a number of public workers' neighbours, none of them do meaningful production activities, because the government has no concept of what to do with these people. We see that it would provide an excellent basis for export to Hungarian agriculture if at least public workers living in the countryside were used for this purpose to produce and do meaningful work. However, it can be seen that for municipalities the public works system has become a local paying place for the social system. It is also worth seeing that the minimum wage in Hungary is HUF 68,000, compared to which not one person earns HUF 51,000 as a public worker, this is the 8-hour public wage, and it is not worth it to go to employment with a noble simplicity, it is better to work as a public worker for many. Simply because the pay gap is so small, and since employers cannot give these people meaningful work, local governments often do not have to go in, or it is enough to show up at work for an hour or two a day, and later they complement their income from black or gray payments. Poverty grows, but the government doesn't give us any meaningful work. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is what is preventing you from providing these people with meaningful productive work primarily within agriculture. Would it not be good for the poor families concerned to produce basic food for themselves, their families, if they consumed what was produced in the public work programme? Would it not be good to eat the food produced by public workers in local catering, schools, kindergartens, crèches, municipalities, and other public buildings? Wouldn't that lead us forward? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2015-03-16-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You're asking me if the government has noticed that, in the absence of meaningful work or productive activity, the public work programme has failed. And I'd like to ask you if you've noticed that Jobbik is speaking in a different way about public employment. You specifically - a few days or weeks ago I was on the air - said that the difference between the public employment minimum wage and the minimum wage is too small, and now you say that it is too big. It's the same with the numbers. At the time, when the data of the KSH appears, you say that the government is using the number of public employees only for cosmetic purposes, and a few days ago, the mayor of Tisavasvár, who we know is a better mayor, protested because he wanted to involve more people. Dear Congressman, At the end, public employment is basically about what you're talking about. In connection with Tisavasvári, I ask you whether if 64 people clean a ditch and 62 more people repair sidewalks and curbs - which the municipality asked for as an opportunity - they do useful or useless work. Ask the mayor there, I'm quite sure he'll say otherwise that it's a useful activity for the region. Honourable Congressman, Clearly, it is clear that if we look at public employment from the point of view that we want to give people jobs instead of aid, then everyone agrees, or at least seems to agree. And if you observe it... and you said you wouldn't find such an example. I'd be very happy to show you some of the settlements in Borsod, Szabolcs, Nógrád, but it doesn't matter where I tell you what you're talking about. They carry out agricultural activities, create value, transport to the local government's kitchen, use high-quality products. So maybe these sentences would have been true four to five years ago, but they're not true now. So our goal is clearly to give the opportunity to a place behind which there is meaningful, value-creating work. Is it possible to give 250,000 or 300,000 or 400,000 people - because it would be so necessary now - meaningful, value-creating work in the winter and summer, and whether the 400-500 billion forints needed for, say, 400 thousand people, the budget will last, is another interesting question. Or whether it is worth considering that public employment, which we have already indicated, is not a permanent form of employment, because we would be in great trouble if, by the way, the company did not find a workforce - and there is an example, say, in the area of seasonal work in agriculture - because it is too big - in quotes - for public employment. So this system must work in such a way that everyone is able to do meaningful work primarily in the competitive sphere, but where there is no competition, there is also public employment. We are planning a programme, Mr President, which will, on the one hand, help and speed up the exit from public employment into the competition sector. We are not sure that everyone needs to find the competition sector through public employment, and we agree on that. There are those who are immediately eligible for competitive application, and there is also a very important question about public employment, so that we can help exit in other ways. We need to create a social economy and social cooperatives that have the opportunity to get back on their feet within a few years, and in this context, in practice, if not from one year to the next, we will be able to give people meaningful, value-creating work in the framework of public employment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2015-03-16-41	Mr. President. Unfortunately, I am unable to accept that answer. Once again, Mr. Secretary, we live among the people, the good guys. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] I'm a man who lives on a farm myself, and I see and know these people because they're my neighbors. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They do not give them meaningful production work because the government has no concept in this regard. Look at the government's website, there's no indication that people should be doing meaningful production work. And I also think it is very important to say that I was talking about - only the Secretary of State did not understand - that there is a very small difference between the minimum wage and the public employment wage, and very many people in the countryside simply do not want to work in the primary labour market for a low wage, because they make almost as much money in the public works system, in return they may not even have to work. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary, it wasn't that complicated, and your answer is unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Member András Schiffer, head of the LMP faction, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: what does the government do to publicise the Hungarian-related state security documents in Moscow? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Parliamentary Secretary Répássy Róbert will respond to the interpellation on behalf of Minister of Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent on the subject. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-03-16-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am shocked to learn that Hungarian-Russian relations do not belong to foreign affairs, but to the judicial wallet, but what can be done. 2015 was carried to the Soviet Union because seventy years ago, in November 1944, the first transports were launched, with which the Soviet occupying troops carried Hungarian people to the Gulág and other regions of the Soviet Union. 25 years ago, the secret service scandal of the change of regime, the Dunagate case, which is a separate chapter in the secret history of the regime change. For 25 years, the Hungarian folk game is being played by various economic and political players trying to make their rivals impossible by alleged or real agent charges. Until the mid-1990s, regardless of the Dunagate scandal, the destruction and removal of state security documents took place without delay. This is one of the most serious failures of the change of regime, and despite the LMP's series of attempts, public awareness has not been resolved in a satisfactory manner to date. Tomorrow will be a chance to clear this 25-year-old. In Lajos Simicska's recent statement, the latest player of the agency, the disgraced oligarch of the Prime Minister, did not simply accuse the Prime Minister of his suspected past as an agent, but pointed to Moscow, which makes the issue of the publicity of Hungarian-related state security documents in Russia particularly topical. I would like to point out that, before the Simicska scandal, already in January, the LMP presented a proposal for a decision requiring the Hungarian Government to act in Moscow in order to get to know the documents and documents produced by the occupying Soviet troops. We see that between 1944 and 1991, during the period of the Soviet occupation, numerous Hungarian-related documents were created in the archives of the KGB and the NKVD, which we simply have a moral obligation to at least try to make researchable. Despite the research that has become possible in recent decades and the established Hungarian Archives Institute of Moscow, full knowledge of the fragmented and disappearing past of state security is also essential to the full knowledge of the parallel file in Russian treatment. To this end, there is a need for immediate government action, because it is impossible to explore the power of the Communist dictatorship without examining the survival of the State Security Machine and the destroyed documents. The main task of the National Assembly is to facilitate the exploration of the past that survives in the State Machine, since, without full knowledge of this, neither moral nor legal judgment can be sufficiently justified, especially from the current majority of governments cynically sweeping their own state security history under the rug. What is the Hungarian government finally doing to make public state security documents related to Moscow?
u2015-03-16-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Répássy Robert. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Hungary and the Russian Federation currently have two agreements governing Hungarian-Russian archival cooperation. An intergovernmental agreement was concluded in Budapest on 11 November 1992 on the cooperation of state archives, according to which the parties will develop cooperation between archives on the basis of full reciprocity and in compliance with their respective laws. On 14 December 2001, an inter-ministerial agreement was concluded in Moscow between the Ministry of National Cultural Heritage of the Republic of Hungary and the Archives Service of the Russian Federation on the implementation of tasks related to the activities of the Archives Institute of the Hungarian Center for Culture, Science and Information. The first Orbán government then established the Hungarian Archives Institute of Moscow on 16 December 2001. The task of the institution is in the history of Hungary in Russia, together with Hungarian-Russian and especially XX. Systematic and targeted exploration, collection, organization, processing of archival documents related to Hungarian-Soviet relations in the 20th century, and the return of these collections in a copy to the National Archives of the Hungarian National Archives. Since 1 November 2012, the Archives has concluded cooperation agreements and project agreements with ten Russian archives, scientific and higher education institutions and three Hungarian scientific bodies. It is also of particular importance that the fact that access to Hungarian-related archival documents in Russia is made significantly difficult by the fact that, under the Act on State Secrets, government and ministry bodies, which are secretors, may take special measures in order to protect data and documents covered by state secrets. These bodies therefore do not hand over their documents to the central archives, but they keep and manage their documents, which are of lasting value, in their own historical archives, so-called professional archives. For example, the FSB, the central archive of the Russian Homeland Security Service, is one of the world's most rigorously managed, most hierarchic archives. Here, since 1993, the release of secretly managed files from the certification process has started at a very slow pace. With regard to the former Soviet state security documents, the question of the termination, disclosure of the rights of provision, in particular the classifications, and the authorisation to make them available to the Hungarian party, is the responsibility of the Russian party's qualified personnel. The majority of these documents are not excluded from the classification, the scientific access to the documentation managed here is extremely difficult, so the reports of the KGB's bodies in foreign countries have only been published scattered and fragmented in the last five years. However, in June 2013 the head of the Hungarian Archives Institute in Moscow asked the central archives of the FSZB to publish several documents in the framework of a joint scientific project, but a negative reply was received from the archives. I also draw attention to the fact that, in the absence of a specific agreement to this effect, Russia can make the Hungarian request conditional on reciprocity. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you on the questions made by the Member that the Government is fully committed to supporting the return of materials in archives in some form. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I would also like to point out that this year there will be a meeting of the Russian-Hungarian Joint Archives Committee. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the Head of the Group if you'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-03-16-47	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept it. The fact is, Mr Secretary, in most of your response, you spoke about something completely different. [[It's grumpy.]] I wasn't talking about having medieval documents in Russian archives. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] then what kind of agreement there is on cultural diplomacy. I wasn't talking about cultural diplomacy; that's what you answered. As far as my question is concerned, I'd like to lead you on. Getting to know the Hungarian-related part of the old KGB and NKVD file is, of course, a matter of national self-esteem and, as the scandals of recent weeks have highlighted, a question of national sovereignty. [[14.50]] My question concerns whether Viktor Orbán acts at Vladimir Putin, in Hungarian, at the highest level, in order to enable the FSZB's Hungarian-related documents to be researched. You don't have to be scared of reciprocity. The situation is very different, however, not Hungary has been invading for forty years, but the Soviet Union. Hungarian self-esteem and Hungarian sovereignty include acting at the highest level in the interest of researchability. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. Fraction Manager didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Congressman Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office for hundreds of millions of unusable councils? Who's responsible? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that, instead of and on behalf of Minister János Lázár, State Secretary Zsolt Kis will answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-49	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The economic crisis that broke out in autumn 2008 brought Hungarian farmers and Hungarian families to challenges that Hungarian society had been moaning over the years. At the same time, there were profiteers and fortunate people from the moonyard of the then socialist leadership who had only benefited from the economic crisis. One of them was the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association, which, according to the final judgment of the court, caused HUF 200 million to the Hungarian State. The question arises: how could a civil society organisation managed by a socialist mayor obtain grants during the economic crisis? On the basis of current data, it is clear that the half-billion-dollar grant was received by the association after a letter of only one-and-a-half-page support was written. The payment was approved by the then MSZP State Secretary Zoltán Gőgös on 18 December 2008, then what God gives, four days later the half billion HUF landed in the bank account of the socialist association. The grant was decided during record time, and since the wallet at the time did not have so much money, the government decided to allocate the money from the budgetary balance reserve. The organisation received the money to communicate the effects of the international economic crisis in the rural area. The Government Audit Office has opened an investigation into astronomical aid. According to the findings of the study, the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association spent HUF 212 million out of half a billion forints, for example, on the preparation of 13 studies that did not serve the implementation of the crisis communication campaign in any way. The association practically worked to cover the HUF 500 million grant and bring a fictitious account of the cost accounting. Hundreds of millions of forints were found among the accounts, which either did not relate to the goal to be supported, or were linked to their name, but were not used in any way. The special interest of the case is that half a billion forints were received by the association with the approval of Zoltán Gőgös and his active involvement in the distribution of funds, despite the fact that in 2008 the legal department of the agricultural portfolio challenged the project before the signing of the grant contract, because the legal department considered some of the costs contained in the grant contract unacceptable and excessive, because, in its view, it was contrary to the law on public finances. Dear Secretary of State, How's the investigation based on Kehi's report, because we know that Zoltán Gőgös was never heard from in the case. What will the Government do to ensure that the amounts unduly paid under the contested grant agreement are repaid and when will the parties concerned be held liable? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State, Miklós Kis. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As you rightly mentioned in your interpellation, the Office for Government Control, in its 2012 investigation, revealed that during the 2008 global economic crisis, Zoltán Gőgös, then State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, gave HUF 500 million to the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association to organise an information campaign on the effects of the global economic crisis in rural areas. The 500 million forints were received by the association at fairytale speed, in a few days without bidding, and in advance, although according to the legislation it could only have been done afterwards. Zoltán Gőgös, then State Secretary, decided to grant the aid despite the fact that he was warned in advance by the head of his own ministry: there are no adequate guarantees to repay the amount, the contract is a serious infringement, and the conclusion of the contract even raises suspicion of a criminal offence of sloppy treatment. The Kehi study found out that the foundation did not use the aid to inform the countryside, but rather to use it in a completely irregular way for its own operation, for the repayment of its previous loans, for meaningless studies, and partly for the use with fictitious invoices. The Foundation also accounted for the cost of events where in many cases the number of participants in the contract could not be guaranteed even though both the performers and the organisers were represented as members of the audience. The unlawful use of the aid in the civil suit initiated by the Ministry was definitively determined by the court, but the foundation did not reimburse a penny, nor is it expected to, since the association no longer has any assets. In this case, Kehi filed a complaint under which the National Tax and Customs Office was investigating fiscal fraud and the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office for misappropriation. During the investigation by the Investigator's Attorney General, it was found that the grant agreement was entered into in an irregular manner, resulting in a financial disadvantage of some HUF 200 million. In addition, the foundation provided part of the aid to a network of companies that was set up shortly before the grant was granted and then quickly ceased after the money was spent, leaving them with a significant tax debt. I would like to inform the Member that the investigating authority has indeed terminated the proceedings in this case. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yes, because he didn't find anything!]] I note that according to the data available to the Detective Attorney General, Zoltán Gőgös's interrogation was not carried out either as a witness or as a suspect. In contrast to this decision, Kehi complained to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and points out that the financial disadvantage could have been avoided if Zoltán Gőgös had complied with the rules and did not sign a grant agreement such as his subordinate had warned him about. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You know you have to answer for that, mate.]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament and Member, the Prime Minister's Office will do everything in its power to ensure that no penny of the money of farmers and the countryside will disappear without a trace in the future. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Therefore, I ask you to accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Balázs Győrffy has the floor. Here you go. [[Continuous noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] I would ask my fellow Members to allow Mr Balázs Győrffy to give his one-minute speech. I'm gonna need a special torque on both sides. Now Balázs Győrffy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Clearly, there is no need to explain the sharp correlation between loudness and involvement. I understand that the Members are outraged that we are dealing with this, and that this 500 million forints in the countryside was very much absent from elsewhere. But we know very well that Socialist rural development is nothing more than skimming money and using it for party financing through LEADER. By the way, this is the tip of the iceberg. As mayor of the Pope's area, I was aware that what they were doing there, those coercion associations that forced us to operate as certain socialist LEADER leaders, all they said was that they were trying to force us to withdraw money. It's a big problem that we've come this far. We would like to finally see where that half billion HUF has gone, and I hope that we will get the answer to that in a very short time. I thank you very much for your reply, which I respectfully accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: What awaits the disabled, and what awaits the workers after the working years? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member and the House that instead of Minister Zoltán Balog, Bence Rétvári will answer you. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2015-03-16-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As of 1 January 2012, the pension scheme was reformed in the context of cardinal measures, all retirements below the age limit, invalidity and accident invalidity pensions were abolished and the service pension was also discontinued. They said that this transformation is necessary because I would like to filter out fraudsters, as I would like to talk about the disabled for a longer time. They also said that they would get test machines from Germany to detect fraudsters in the context of the review and that these test machines would be able to prove the working capacity of clients assigned to the review. It's been three years. They said that the reviews would be completed by the end of 2013, then they asked for a six-month deadline change, then a year, then another year. We are standing here after more than three years, and it seems that the reviews are not over. But not only is it not over, people, hundreds or thousands of people applying for a review complain about the quality, inhumanity of the reviews, the extent of the subsidies taken. About a thousand days ago, I asked the Ministry eight questions about these matters. More than a thousand days passed, and to this day I still had no answer. There are two types of benefits, disability benefits and rehabilitation benefits for the reformed pension system today. Rehabilitation benefits can be paid for a total of three years, and with respect, as of January 1, 2012, when this law came into force, tens of thousands of people have recently passed rehabilitation care. As a result, I tabled an amendment to the restructuring of the administration and went to the Judicial Committee. The amendment was about the fact that people with reduced working capacity or rehabilitation benefits who lost their care could receive regular social assistance so far. However, according to the changed rules, regular social assistance ceased to exist on 1 March, and the legislation states that those who do not receive 80 percent of the previous care in the future under municipal aid will lose even the right to health care. I don't think a government can make that kind of decision. I ask Mr Secretary of State whether there are elements of the pension system regarding disability care that are considered and changed to date. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know exactly what your opinion was, whether it was a thousand or two thousand days ago, honourable Member, but on the social issue itself, allow your former party partner, fellow faction, perhaps a boss, to quote one of Erika Szűcs's speeches on this issue in Parliament at the same time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Restoring working capacity and employment instead of finding disability is a European trend, which is confirmed not only by the needs of the economy but also by the daily experience of all of us, what is the real expectation of society in the case of more than 400 thousand disabled people of working age. This expectation is clear. , says Erika Szűcs, on 29 September 2008. This expectation is clear. Those who are able to work should be able to work and work, and there should be more taxpayers, so that fewer taxes can provide a decent living for our fellow countrymen who are no longer helped by rehabilitation. It's our social agenda, and it's not saving money. 'The former socialist politician said.' He expressed the same aim in this regard, which he is now dealing with and criticising in his interpellation. It has set a similar objective that there is a need for a review here. Although the previous government has said it many times, and I could have quoted other parliamentary speeches that this review was necessary, but it did not. Though he would have thought it fair, he would have thought it useful, he would have thought it necessary, but he did not enter this path. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government has implemented these ideas, more precisely: it has launched their implementation. You are well aware that, at the initial stage, when a person who had previously received a different type of pension has had a disability pension, he had to complete and return a declaration in relation to the review and 9789 people did not even comment. In fact, some admitted that they did not wish to receive this disability pension at a later stage, since they were not entitled to it, and they took this resource away from those who, in fact, were unable to do work by reason of their health. We thought that these resources should be given to the needy in full, not to those who abuse it. This is why the review process has started, which is actually still going on. As regards conflicts of interest with regular social assistance, honourable Member, the reality is that the change in the social security system has not affected the provision of regular social assistance as a result of health damage, its entitlement to benefits. They, albeit with a different name, continue to receive a replacement social benefit under previous conditions as health and child care support. So this criticism is inappropriate, Congressman. Under the Law on the benefits of persons with disabilities, all persons who received benefits on 31 December 2011 will receive benefits equal to the amount of previous benefits until their revision, with a new name. To the question of what you wrote here, although you did not read about what will happen to the invalids who will have no care left: there will be no such invalid. After all, those who are indeed disabled will receive the amount corresponding to previous benefits, not pensions, but benefits. And those who were not disabled obviously do not receive any kind of care, and they have abused this opportunity. Of course, the government strives to speed up this process, but precision is also very important, so that no one has a faulty rating. Therefore, we have also tried to provide additional resources within the framework of a separate TÁMOP 5.4.8 project to ensure that these reviews take place as soon as possible. But more importantly, these should be accurate, and no one should be misjudged. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-59	Mr. Secretary. I can't accept your answer. I never said there was no need for inspections. Reviews are always necessary, as the disabled can also get worse, and they can also get better. I must reject this reference to 9700 people who have not returned it. Of course they didn't send him back when 90 percent of them moved away, a lot of them were in the hospital, a lot of people didn't get their notice, and they couldn't send it back. Then it turned out it was a few hundred people, because all the others simply didn't get it because of an administrative error. I think that there should be a continuous dialogue between the political sides on the pension system. I also think that pension systems should be managed flexibly. As a result, last week we proposed that men be able to use the possibility of an old-age pension with 40 years of entitlement. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't vote for it.]] This is why we have also initiated the restoration of early retirement and the restoration of early retirement. I don't accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Bank abuse: when will the full screening take place? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that, instead of Minister Mihály Varga, he will hear the answer from State Secretary András Tállai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-61	Mr President, Dear House, Foreign exchange loans are now faced in weeks to months with the fact that, after the government's so-called settlement, forinting, forinting at the market rate, most of them will have a higher debt than the borrowed amount after eight years, even if everything has been properly paid in. [[15.10]] It can be seen that while most people took credit at about 150 HUF Swiss francs, now switching to 256 forints allows this current government to increase the remaining debt by more than 70 percent. So in the best case, the 10-15% refund of the amount received, which the government now offers, does not compensate for this increase at all. It is therefore safe to say that the debt is around one and a half times the amount received, and that during the remaining term the interest rate will double this. This shows, therefore, that on the basis of the government's settlement plan, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] every payment so far was a gift to the bank. Thus, Fidesz-KDNP has developed a model whereby these banks can legally swallow people's payments so far, since the total debt will still be higher than the amount originally received. It can also be seen that according to Jobbik's internal calculations, if the government had acted in 2010, as we demanded, and had these loans forinted at the price of the day of admission, you would have saved each individual person a sum of HUF 3 million per contract per family, but unfortunately did not listen to Jobbik, first postponed the solution, and finally, as we can see, it was sabotaged. There are a number of questions in the air: what is the government's intention to play a mediation role for itself, say, in the case of authentic for free use or car credentials? Where's the working private institution? How could the government conclude a pact with the Banking League that, as they say, does not prevent eviction? How is it that you still need the bank's permission to help the National Asset Manager? In order to clarify these many issues hanging in the air, four NGOs and associated organisations have submitted a request for the Hungarian Parliament to seek answers to these questions within a committee of inquiry, to find out where this HUF 3 million has gone per family, what omissions have disappeared, how to compensate those affected, and how to undo this legalized bank free robbery, and to credit the amounts involved in people's accounts. The question of whether Fidesz-KDNP, the government, is a partner in the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which, by examining all the game drivings of so-called foreign exchange lending, finally cleans up in this jungle with a bush cutter. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Noise.]]
u2015-03-16-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, I would ask my fellow Members in the Chamber who are conducting private negotiations or formal negotiations to leave the Chamber and to hold these discussions there. András Tállai, Secretary of State, will you take the floor?
u2015-03-16-63	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's look at this 2010 forinting thing, if Jobbik's schedule had been in place, what it would have meant for the country. It would have meant that the MNB had a foreign reserve of EUR 25 billion at the time, and that 70 percent of this would have had to be used for this purpose, which I think you do not need to prove to the country what that would have meant. In essence, this would have meant the total financial collapse, insolvency, total inadequacy, the turnaround of investors, and essentially the country would have remained without foreign reserves. And don't say that this should have been resolved on a market basis; that would have meant the weakening of the forint in a measure that would have led back to the same place. That's one of the questions. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The other question was that it would not have benefited from interest rates - even though they laugh at this, this economic reality - for whom they would have converted their credit, because at that time the rate of interest was above 10%, the APR was almost 12 percent, and now 6 percent. So the forinting at the time would have meant that interest rates would have increased, the instalments would have increased rather than decreased, not like now, not to mention that there was no legal background to this decision at the time. I'll just say one thing: for example, the Constitutional Court's decision made it possible to amend the contracts previously concluded on 17 March 2014. This meant that the Constitutional Court stated that it was justified by a mass social problem. This resolution was also missing, and by the way, the Curia's decision as a legal unit would not have been in the hands of the then government. So the state and state of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian National Bank, would not have allowed this to happen. As far as your critical comment on car loans is concerned, it is true that just over 10 percent of loans are covered by this type of loan, but you forgot to say that in these credible ones, the settlement, which the Curia said, would have meant a reduction in repayments of 10-15 percent. What you are saying about free-use mortgage loans is not so, since forinting applies to free-use mortgage loans in the same way. He forgot to talk about the fact that, by the way, 500 000 contracts are about HUF 3600 billion forints, which will now mean security for people, no need to fear a change in interest rates and no need to fear a change of exchange rates, people will be afraid, people will be expected to repay. As far as the time of the forinting is concerned, I recall that at the beginning of January, following the decision of the Swiss central bank, the Hungarian government received words of praise, that it had just in time saved Hungarian people and businesses from spending some 700 billion forints. I believe that the Hungarian Government has acted wisely and responsibly on the issue of foreign exchange credentials, and I think that this huge social problem is actually finally ending. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-65	Mr President, Dear House, There was no answer that I could accept, so I do not accept this party state-class speech, which has just been said here. The main question was whether the government supported the establishment of a parliamentary committee on this subject - well, that was forgotten. However, it can be seen that if the Ministry of National Economy was working at this professional level, not only were foreign exchange loans damaged, but the whole country can expect amazing times, since the country's foreign reserves have nothing to do with what we thought of forinting at the rate of admission, and what worked could have worked, because there was no currency behind four fifths of the loans called the relevant ones, and this is supported by the papers. So you can come up with different false justifications about how they didn't have any legal options, and that's another lie, because the Curia didn't even conclude you with regard to the exchange rate. It would take courage to take on the problem of conflict. You have proved to be little, but at least at that time you should commend the civil society organisations that took the initiative to respond. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If appropriate, tell the Association of Foreign Traders or the Authentic Movement that they do not commend those involved to reveal, within the framework of an investigation committee, an otherwise devastating problem of their lives. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 31 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. How does the government protest against atrocities against Hungarians? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that instead of and on behalf of Minister Levente Magyar will answer you. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-03-16-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, in recent weeks, we have seen reports of atrocities reported by Hungarians from Romania on several occasions. [[15.20]] These include the case of protesting on 14 February with anti-Hungarian banners at the rugby match between Romania and Spain in Cluj-Napoca. In the bleachers of the stadium, the domestic fans stretched a banner on which it was written in Romanian that the name Cluj-Napoca - either accept or leave! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The inscription responded to a civil initiative aimed at publishing the name of Kolozsvár in Hungarian at the border of the city. Another case, which was a flagrant insult to Hungarians, was Arad in February, where unknown unsubs painted the portrait of 13 Arad martyrs on the Statue of Liberty on Romanian national colours, and the pedestal was written texts that reproach Hungarians with black paint sprays. Finally, I would like to mention the decision of the Oradea Court of Oradea in January, which rejected Mr László Tőkés's claim against the police protocol calling for the removal of the flag, which regarded the Szekler flag as a flag flag. According to local authorities, the Szekler flag is an ad flag and can only be deployed for 30 days under certain conditions. This decision is also shocking and interesting in the light of the fact that last year's report by the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the Council of Europe's human rights body, condemned Romania for its behaviour in pursuit of Szekler symbols and called for equal treatment to be applied in the use of symbols. Dear Secretary of State, I would now like to take advantage of the possibility of interpellation, to ask you how the government objects to the atrocities against the Hungarians, what instruments the government has put in place for this purpose. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Levente Magyar. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-69	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Government's duty - and it strives to fully fulfill this obligation every single time - is to stand up to every step that concerns the atrocity of Hungarian national minorities, the restriction of the use of the rights or rights of Hungarian national minorities. Honourable Congressman, Since the government's intention and purpose is to achieve a meaningful change and a meaningful improvement for the Hungarians abroad, not to check out this mandatory task, that we protested, we submitted the list, we intervened, therefore, honourable Member, in all such cases the Hungarian Government has an elemental interest in developing a constructive, forward-looking meaningful dialogue with the authorities of the majority nation, the government of the majority nation, because in no other way will we achieve that the living conditions of foreign Hungarians improve in substance. With regard to the Romanian approach in this matter, honourable Member, I would like to draw the attention of this House and the honourable Member to some particularly worrying moments here today. First of all, honourable Member, most foreign Hungarians live in Romania, some 1.5 million live in Romania, and Romania is also the second largest export market in Hungary. So a very close national, ethnic, national economic question is whether we can normalize our relationship with Romania. My second point, honourable Member, is that if a Hungarian is abused across borders, let us assume that physical atrocity is worth a Hungarian, then in many cases it is difficult to determine whether such an event actually had an ethnic, nationalist colour. However, if a community is insulted and abused in its symbols, its historical identity, its culture, it is clearly a challenge against an entire community. It's for every member of the community, and then it's quite clear that there's an attack on a particular community, because it's not an individual atrocity that's happening, but a community that's being put on the brink. My third point, which highlights Romanian atrocities in a particularly serious light, honourable Member, is that these cases are not isolated, they are deemed to be a coincidence, but these cases have been built into a real trend in recent years, and it is very difficult to assume that if the Romanian authorities had done everything they could to prevent these cases, Romania, which has given so much to its national security capabilities and capabilities, could not have done so. In this way, the Hungarian government has a multiple challenge of how to deal with this issue. Of course, all statements and attacks attacking Hungarians or Hungary must be rejected in the strongest possible way. At the same time, as I said, a constructive relationship with partner countries must be sought. Otherwise, we will not be able to achieve results in this area either, at least certainly not in any way, or in any other way. Therefore, honourable Member, the Hungarian Government has shown and demonstrated maximum openness in recent years, when these negative trends have intensified in Romania, to re-establish dialogue with the Romanian Government, normalise Hungarian-Romanian relations, and to do everything possible to ensure that the two governments, the two countries, have a cooperation based on mutual respect, respecting European standards and European values, as has been more or less achieved over the past period with Slovakia, Serbia, after the virtually unmanageable diplomatic situation in these relations in pre-2010 times. I am very optimistic that in the coming years, in the coming period, the Hungarian government will be able to normalise relations with Romania with the support of the Hungarian Parliament and thus protect Transylvanian minority Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One-minute comment: the issue of acceptance.
u2015-03-16-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think that if we take into account the specific atrocities listed or even the Székely Mikó College and other events, we can see that there is indeed a negative trend, the events in Romania have been in a negative direction over the past few years in a way affecting the Hungarian national minority. I would ask the Government to continue and do more to ensure that the collective rights of the Hungarian national minority in Romania can be exercised, to seize all means in international organisations and in European institutions, so that these collective rights can be exercised. Thank you very much for your answer, I accept. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. When do you assume responsibility? It's an address. I would like to inform the Congresswoman that on behalf of Minister Sándor Fazekas, Minister of State István Nagy will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-16-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would like to talk about what Mr Kiss has done here in this House, and I would like your answer on a number of issues. Who was Szilárd Kiss? Szilárd Kiss has to be known that he is a former government favorite, now a disgraced, unclaimed professional diplomat who is in the process, but in any case the star figure of the Eastern opening, the businessman working on the Russian market of the Upper Csút bacon, Szilárd Kiss [[János Lázár: If only it were!]] Who could have stayed in position even though he failed the National Security Review two times, not a little, but a very failed two times in a row. Szilárd Kiss is apparently the creation of this government, a worthy representative of the Eastern opening, whose work is linked to a number of questions. The government is trying to push Szilárd Kiss away from you, they fear him as a devil of holy water, and we will ask you the questions, Mr Secretary of State here instead of the Minister. The Minister did not come because I have already demanded his resignation, given that we clearly see that no one in the Ministry accepts responsibility for the fact that this man, after having failed twice in the national security review, could be in the Ministry for public money. Dear Secretary of State, What exactly was the position of this Mr. Szilárd Kiss? I'd like to know clearly who the man who appointed her for this position was. You have replied in writing to me that you would not be a Commissioner for Ministers, but some sort of ministerial commissioner. Now, I would like to ask here, in front of this House, exactly what was the mandate of Mr Kiss Szilárd, which he may have fulfilled despite failing his due diligence. My other question is about what Szilárd Kiss was working on. On the one hand, it is clear that he had a joint venture with Lőrinc Mészáros, who, knowingly, belongs to the economic background of the current Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and also with the President-CEO of Quaestor, who has now fallen in. From here on out, I want to know exactly what happened here. So the opening up of the East is actually about the government making money through the business networks of close businessmen? It seems that Szilárd Kiss had to be held in position in order to acquire a business in Russia for his joint agricultural company with Lőrinc Mészáros, right? How exactly is it then? So the pig on the road would have gone to the Russian market through Szilárd Kiss? And what else did they want to bring together with the help of Szilárd Kiss? [[15.30]] The other is that the information that has come to light clearly shows that it is in the interest of Orbán to keep Szilárd Kiss in office. From here on out, I have two questions. One is whether you have received an order, a request or even a proposal from Viktor Orbán to give Szilárd Kiss a mandate within or outside of any office, and then I would like to know when Minister Fazekas will finally take responsibility and answer questions and then resign from his position. Because what we already know is unacceptable - [[An intervention in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I apologize for this foreign policy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What you're doing, it's about this net bartering on the part of the government, but the fact that these deals are close to government, I'd like you to clarify clearly how far this can go, and how this could have been done. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-03-16-74	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-75	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, I'd like to share with you all the information I have at my disposal. The arrest of Szilárd Kiss is not related to the work he has done for the Ministry of Agriculture. As a result of its work, Hungary's agricultural exports to Russia continued to increase by 25 percent from 2012 to 2013. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Who appointed him?]] He worked as a diplomat in Moscow, he was not a direct colleague of the Minister, he received no other allowance for his work than his wages. In relation to the national security control of Szilárd Kiss, the Ministry of Agriculture cannot provide information pursuant to the Act on the compulsory investigation or the conclusion of the document. The Ministry has no further information on the case. Thank you for asking. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-76	Thank you very much. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Who appointed him? That was the question.]]
u2015-03-16-77	I'm not taking it. Specifically, you didn't respond, Mr. Secretary. Scandal! The Hungarian Parliament is in a situation [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I would very much like this to be seen clearly - I have a minute, and I will fill it out - because you have spoken for one minute out of four, and you are so ashamed of what has happened. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] This should end with the resignation of the minister, the Head of the Ministry, in every country where democracy is given something. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] There is no such thing as having a failed agricultural diplomat twice, who we do not know exactly what position he was in at the Ministry, but what we see is that Viktor Orbán is getting close to the threads. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And you can talk to me here all the time, whisper everything in my ear, be ashamed of yourself. [[Big noise, constant interruptions. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] To assist a government capable of supporting such a man who failed twice in the national security investigation, to keep him in position. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: Guard! Constant interruptions.]]
u2015-03-16-78	My fellow Members, give the congresswoman the opportunity.
u2015-03-16-79	Who appointed Szilárd Kiss? That is still the question. Who held this man in position? What was your position? And how long are the fibers worth? To the immediate vicinity of Viktor Orbán, we can see that. But for how long, exactly? I look forward to the answers to these questions.
u2015-03-16-80	Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 97 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. How can the domestic implementation system be renewed? It's an address. I respectfully inform the Member that, on behalf of Minister László Trócsányi, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, With the establishment of an institution for judicial enforcement, the legislator seeks to solve one of the most important tasks of the State under a legally regulated procedure, which is to ensure legal protection and justice. Implementation therefore plays a particularly important role in enforcing the law, in the operation of the legal order. If public confidence in enforcement procedures is shaken, it will sooner or later undermine the belief in the rule of law. In order to halt this process, the Ministry of Justice appointed a ministerial commissioner for the Executive Chamber and for the screening of the public body. The latest press reports have already announced that the entire presidency of the Chamber, the old administration, has submitted its resignation. As a government representative, I expect there to be order in the abusive world of bailiffs. I am convinced that we need a new, clean, transparent and fair judicial enforcement system, which also takes into account human dignity as a fundamental right. A healthy balance must be struck between the rights and obligations of those seeking enforcement and debtors, and enforcement should therefore function in such a way that the supervision of the State is properly exercised. At the same time, people's trust in justice must be restored and procedures made more efficient and faster. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: how can the domestic implementation system be renewed? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-83	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, The judicial government is committed to transform judicial enforcement into a transparent, fair and ongoing procedure to take account of fundamental human rights. In order to achieve this goal, the Ministry of Justice considers it its task to eliminate the anomalies in implementation today and to put order in this area in order to create a clear and transparent situation. The Prime Minister also expects the Minister of Justice to put the enforcement system in order without compromise and propose to renew it accordingly. The operation of the executives has begun to be subject to public supervision. With effect from 1 March 2015, the Judicial Office shall supervise the conduct and functioning of the executives and monitor the assessment of complaints against the conduct of the executioners. The Court of Justice shall have full jurisdiction to supervise the handling of complaints as from the first working day of March. The Office's organisational unit, which controls the conduct and functioning of its executives, shall begin its first audits, after preparation, in April to May. State supervision therefore already has the appropriate powers to ensure the effectiveness of supervisory work, the right to propose in order to renew judicial enforcement. The Office of Justice will continue to have the task of developing control methods to give immediate signals to legislation when intervention is required. Initiating controls will be followed by consistent disciplinary practices. Disciplinary proceedings in excess of the number of disciplinary proceedings in recent years are currently under way. The conversion shall cover the entire implementing organisation system. The Presidency of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives announced its resignation last week. We see this as a sign that the Chamber itself is not satisfied with its own work for the past decade. In this respect, the government's view is that the work of the Executive Chamber has to be thoroughly analysed over the last twenty years, and we must appreciate the effectiveness of the Executive Chamber's public tasks entrusted to it by the legislation. We need to analyse whether the Chamber has provided sufficient efficiency and effectiveness to monitor the professional work and moral conduct of executives. We need to examine whether it has intervened with sufficient weight to influence the behaviour of the executives, i.e. how responsible the Chamber's supervisory activities are for the fact that public confidence in society has been significantly shaken against implementation, an important segment of justice. This analysis and evaluation work will soon be over. Honourable Congressman, The changes should also not ignore the entire set of instruments for implementing legislation, which covers the professional conditions for implementing work. [[15.40]] I can make a promise for sure: if the assessment of the Chamber's work as previously carried out shows that the Chamber did not properly perform the public tasks entrusted to it, then the Government plans to further tighten up the operation, the extent of its privileges, the supervision and the management of its work. Please accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-85	Thank you very much for the floor. In my interpellation, I was talking about a new, clean, transparent and fair judicial enforcement system. Having confirmed this, and the Chamber will move in this direction, so it will operate in a new, clean, transparent and fair way, as we hope in the future, and I therefore accept the answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, a member of the National Assembly, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Where have the rights of workers and trade unions been? It's an address. I would like to inform the notary that Minister Sándor Czomba will answer on his behalf and on his behalf. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The vulnerability of people living on wages and salaries has increased over the past period, and they should work under deteriorating living and, where appropriate, working conditions and at a declining level of income. To mention a few specific things regarding vulnerability, not only should I say that the new work law you have brought has brought us what it has brought; not only should I say that people have been deprived of rights or allowances, so I say that between 500 and 600 thousand people who have left the country as economic refugees in the last few years, this is all thanks to you - so I say that that 47,000 forints, now 52 thousand forints of public employment wages, have lost one third of their value compared to 2010. Therefore, I say that the minimum wage in his purchasing power today was 5 thousand forints less than five years ago. I will ask Mr Secretary of State to tell my fellow Member L. Simon László how it is, because he has not yet understood that. With regard to the minimum wage - this is the 2013 figure - there is a minimum of HUF 87 510, which is nearly HUF 20 thousand away from the minimum wage. As regards the civil servants' salary base, there has not been an election cycle since the change of regime when the salary base did not increase during the cycle; the previous four years were... - and now we have been there for five years now that the salary base has not changed by just one penny. There are no identical rights to the Labour Code. Example: in terms of supplementary leave, let us say, in the case of a public employee, it doesn't matter how many years of service he has or how many children he raises, it's not a supplementary fund for him. In collective agreements, the majority of state-owned companies cannot deviate positively from the prayer book, the Bible, and therefore from the Labour Code. With regard to allowances, the afternoon allowance has been abolished, the night allowance has been reduced to 30 percent, and now think about what this means, say, for Sunday work. There's a decline in income levels. In contrast to the personal income tax return of 4.3 million people, 2.2 million people in the country are earning under the minimum living. The difference in earnings is increasing, 70 percent of people do not earn the average salary. The right to strike was taken from people. I could tell you what all the measures have been taken that are affecting workers, but I say this in vain - that is what I am experiencing - and I am asking only questions. Why are people being exposed? When do you intend to return employees' rights? Why don't you raise the civil servant's salary after five years? When will they give back the right to strike? When will they finally act in the interest of workers who live on wages and salaries? Don't just talk about it, but do something about it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to remind you once again on this important issue that Hungary now has more than a year of employment in excess of 4 million, which I think we can all enjoy together, since this has not been the case in the last 22 years. As far as wages are concerned, honourable Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have completed four years, with a real wage increase of 10.7% between 2010 and 14 in Hungary. Even if the family discount is deducted, it has increased by 5.2 percent. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Did you count everything, butcher's Lurch?]] Of course, the vast majority of this can be done after 2013, when the Hungarian economy is recovering. For the sake of order, I would like to add that between 2007 and 10, not only did it increase, but on average, the real value of the wages of the working people decreased by 4.4 percent. I think it's important. There are various possibilities to increase the financial appreciation of public service workers. You've said five years, but you know - you've been a little slippery because you've been writing eight years in the interpellation - you haven't actually changed the salary rate in eight years. [[Nándor Gúr: You haven't done anything in five years!]] The Hungarian Government has taken and is taking a number of measures in the next period. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there has been a significant change in the salaries of teachers in the health sector, and the sector's pay gap in the social sector. Additional allowances have been granted to police, fire department staff, lower than prisons, and from 1 July 2015 there will be a significant increase for armed and police workers. So, Congressman, I would like to point out that we are trying to act in accordance with the capacity and capacity of the Hungarian economy, we know, we see, we perceive that those working in the public service really deserve more than they have been receiving for eight or ten years, but it is necessary for the Hungarian economy to produce this and not to have to increase wages on credit, as you did in the past, because it will have or have serious consequences, as you can see. As far as the labor code is concerned, obviously, what a man makes cannot be 100 percent perfect. In my opinion, I believe that if the current labour code had been in force at the time of the crisis, around 2008-09, then 150 thousand people would not have had to lose their jobs in a year and a half because they created flexible employment opportunities that were not in place at the time, and the rigid regulation practically resulted in people being dismissed from the competitive sphere. And the fact that in connection with the right to strike, thank God, not many people want to strike these days, but anyone who wants can, because a few weeks ago we could see that in a meat factory, though, we managed to do it by the tail, thanks to God, because they were able to settle quickly, but there was a strike. As far as the strike law is concerned, obviously in those sectors, in those segments where the conditions for a still sufficient service must be ensured, and there - I think - it is important for citizens to exercise the right to strike without endangering operation, any operational operation or other services. What I would also like to say - as we promised earlier - is that we are conducting ongoing discussions on both the right to strike and the labour code in the consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government, and we are examining at expert level the possibility of making these laws even better. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Nándor Gúr whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-03-16-91	Thank you, Mr. President. They've been ruling for five years, Mr. Secretary, it would have been better if they hadn't done anything, it would have been more useful for this country. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You have a routine in that!]] They promised a million new jobs, tax-paying jobs, they didn't make any of this. Don't grunt, start a new tax-paying job. The salary of people with lower incomes has been reduced. Rather, care should be taken to maintain a fair, just pension system; to allow men to retire after 40 years of eligibility. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You voted against her!]] ; to ensure that the institutional system of early discount is operational, not taken away, but given to take the age discount into account. They also have work to do in relation to the enforcement of labour rights, yes. With regard to workers' poverty, in order to eliminate it, they have a lot of work to do to bring new taxpayers' jobs to life, and they do nothing about it. You don't have to talk about people who live on wages and salaries, you have to do something about them. Not against them - don't confuse things. - it's for them. That's what they're trying to do! Thank you. I can't accept the answer. [[15.50]]
u2015-03-16-92	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. That's why I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 104 yes, 34 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice, with the title of Balaton Beach properties, Badacsonytomaj waiting for justice. I respectfully inform the Member that on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject, will respond to the interpellation instead of and on behalf of Mr Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you about perhaps the largest large coalition real estate doggy in the last decade, which the SCD Group has done since 2006 on the shore of Lake Balaton. In 2006, Siótour, Zalatour and Balatontourist-owned camping on Lake Balaton were transferred to the property of the so-called SCD Group, and shortly thereafter, in November 2006, the Hungarian Parliament amended the Balaton Act with the approval of all parties at the time in such a way that the integration of the properties on the shore of Lake Balaton increased dramatically, thereby increasing the value of the real estate held by the SCD Group. The SCD Holding resorts, hotels, ports and other large-scale tourism investments were designed to dazzle the settlements concerned, but the investments were cancelled and nothing was made of them. The city of Badacsonytomaj, also in the title, was planned to be the first to start the construction of a large-scale building, a Bol hotel, if it had any intention or ability. This is the SCD Group. Developments have been cancelled, and this has caused the affected municipalities, the county assembly, which was the owner of the properties before, and the people living here have suffered billions of damage. The left-wing governments let the campsite be lost, and you did nothing to save the property for the municipalities and the Hungarian people. Once again, large-value direct properties on the shore of Lake Balaton have been taken into private hands, and more and more areas are being closed away from the locals and the holiday guests. In many places, like Badacsonytomaj, access to the waterfront is now difficult for local people. In Badacsonytomaj, the sale of the campsite was practically the only option, and the possibility of access to the waterfront provided by the SCD Group at the time, with which the locals were spotted, was a piece of reed, a muddy section that became virtually useless. They put down a booth in which the locker room and shower were provided to the locals. They humiliated the locals quite simply. I ask you, do the people there, Badacsonytomaji, not have the right to access Lake Balaton? I ask the Secretary of State why they have not given rapid support to the settlements so that they can save the locals the properties concerned. After all, now that the liquidator has gone bankrupt and the real estate companies have been liquidated, he sells the real estate one by one, obviously with a large profit for those in the interest of this real estate dog at the time. This investment was expected to boost tourism by locals and people living at Lake Balaton, but instead they received that they had been shut off from their own ponds, and the settlements and the entire Hungarian population suffered a great loss in terms of money. When does the government take care of the property on the shore of Lake Balaton as a responsible host instead of squandering, and when does it deal with the people living at Lake Balaton? Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-16-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, they saw the destruction of companies engaged in tourism on the shore of Lake Balaton and the problem of its operation solved by privatizing these companies. By privatizing the Siótour, Zalatour and Balatontourist camping in Badacsony in the mid-2000s, the owners of the time thought that they could attract a financial professional investor to the shore of Lake Balaton, who, with its large investments, could help the settlements in which the tourism service infrastructure is otherwise inadequately built to create a modern tourist chain. The question is whether the holding company that acquired this property had any intention of implementing these developments at all is now an unanswerable question. We cannot answer that, the fact that the real estate crisis or the financial crisis can take place in the period when these developments should have started. Unfortunately, this did not happen in Badacsony or in other affected settlements. It includes that the mayor of Badacsonytomaj really had very high hopes for the development, as the settlement itself wanted to sell 1.2 hectares of its own territory for 600 million forints to build a hotel there. After all, this business, I think, is now quite clearly, fortunately, not done. The municipalities manage themselves, create their own strategies for urban development and economic development. By the way, the government's current request for a loan transfer is precisely aimed at developing an economic development strategy that can underpin their future, their income. There are settlements in Balaton that have turned to the government, asked for help and returned to the town of Balaton, to the village development program on the shore of Balaton from this camping package, which has been bought from the camping package on the shore of Balaton, to the development area on the shore of Balaton. If the municipalities turn to the government with such a request, they will be examined individually and, if possible, provided with assistance. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-16-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-97	You know, Secretary of State, I don't blame you for writing such a meaningless answer to you. What is more revealing is that Secretary of State Károly Kontrat, who obtained a mandate from a single constituency on the shore of Lake Balaton, and who, as State Secretary, sat in that chair until the beginning of my interpellation, does not appreciate the people on the shore of Lake Balaton as a member of the government, as Secretary of State, so much that he would have responded to my interpellation as a relevant member of the Parliament on the shore of Lake Balaton. It is true that he has not been seen on the shore of Lake Balaton since his election, but I must reject both the government and your response. I can't accept it, they don't do anything for the people on the Lake Balaton, they don't do anything to get back the squalid SCD estates. At least now the people of Lake Balaton can see how much they can count on the government's help. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-16-98	As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 104 yes, 27 no votes and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: what is explained by the increasing pay gap between the counties? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that on behalf and on behalf of Minister Mihály Varga, State Secretary Sándor Czomba will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My question is basically based on the fact that, according to the new data of the HCSO, wage differences continue to grow in Hungary at territorial level. This has been growing since 2008, and while in 2008, say, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and the capital, i.e. the two extreme data, there is a 50 percent difference, this is now more than 80 percent. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] This is basically a symptom of social disintegration, since in 2014 people were able to farm from their average income of 110 thousand forints in Szabolcs, while in Budapest it was above 200 thousand forints net. Technically, regional policy, development policy, should serve the purpose of achieving territorial balance in our country. Unlike this, the four regions of Hungary, North Hungary, North Great Plain, South Great Plain and South Transdanubia are now between the 20 worst-performing regions of the European Union, of which North Hungary is the ninth poorest European region from 273. Only 5 Bulgarian and 3 Romanian regions follow. [[16.00]] Due to increasing social inequalities, there is also a territorial dimension, which is not mentioned: the northeastern regions of Hungary are becoming more and more distraught from the western and north-western parts of the country. In the East, the entire counties are set up for the public work to pay for hunger, and it is very difficult to leave. Mr State Secretary, do not think that I want to be critical of public work right now, but it is simply that I thought about the establishment of a market-based economy and the lack of higher market incomes, that I would ask and draw attention to this inequality. It's the fifth year they've been ruling, and it's basically the disintegration of society that this five-year increase, these KSH data, these income data speak for themselves, and I'd like to thank you for that, if you could give me any explanation or the solution the government has to offer to deal with this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-100	I welcome my fellow Members, and I now give the floor to Minister of State Sándor Czomba in return.
u2015-03-16-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'll try to shed some light on what you just said. Indeed, there are very large territorial differences in Hungary, not four years, not five years, for decades. I would like to point out that the trend is worth looking at. The trend is that in 2010 there was a 15 per cent difference between the worst and best-placed counties in terms of employment, 5 and 20 per cent, Győr-Moson-Sopron and Szabolcs, this ratio is 3.2 and 12.2 per cent at the moment. So there's a big difference, but the scissors are practically narrowed, and now they're at a lower level. And this statement that seems paradoxical, allow me to try to make sense of it. The thing about wages is that if we had leaned back in 2010 and didn't operate public employment, we would be able to report great data on wage matters. Because if we take down the number of public employees, then wages in the competition sector have increased by 5.2 percent in Hungary - we are ready. The fact is that, since public employment in these counties, Borsod, Szabolcs, has come up because we did not want to give aid, but we wanted to give work, and public employment wages are lower, right, as the minimum wage or average wage is, from this point on, the paradox is that the disadvantaged regions seem to be falling apart, as so far those on aid come up into the category of people who live on wages and salaries, and this actually means that statistics show weirdness in this respect. But from an individual's point of view, he does not receive HUF 22 800, but HUF 53,000. In fact, after three children, he gets his gross salary net, 73,000 forints. So I think that this is important; I hope I have made myself clear. As for the other part, what we did or what we had to do. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have been familiar with the concept of a free business zone in Hungary since 2013; the government decided on this at a government meeting in January; since then - about 1.8 million people live in these areas - we supported local SMEs in the amount of HUF 10 billion, 685 companies received support, and nearly 4,000 new jobs were created in connection with this programme. In addition, there have been a number of measures through job-creating proposals and others that have helped this process. There is no doubt that if we look beyond it, for example, 60 percent of registered job seekers are unskilled. In these areas, if we bring high-tech technology there, the next problem will be that they cannot find an adequate number and quality of labour. At the end, we must carry on an activity that has knowledge and experience in part related to agriculture and other manufacturing industries. It is also a very important question from the Hungarian government that we take jobs where the working hand is available, because it is undoubtedly a fact that the mobility of the Hungarian labour force is approaching zero. Moreover, people don't really want to go from Borsod, Szabolcs, Nógrád to the Western Transdanubian region, but want to work there. In the next cycle of 14-20, it is not by accident that nearly 60% of all resources are spent on economic recovery and economic development, and in particular there will be a number of applications that will specifically help either free business zones or disadvantaged regions. Thank you. Please accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-102	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-03-16-103	Mr Secretary of State can represent the people who live there with credibility, as he knows the problems that I am talking about as a Member of Parliament, and it is therefore surprising to me that you are saying that they seem to be breaking down, and that is in fact the result of wage differences. It seems to me that it concerns me very much, because when you mention the catch-up of Western Transdanubia to the central region, you virtually avoid talking about North Hungary, North Great Plain, South Great Plain or South Transdanubia. I didn't want to talk about West Transdanubia, I wanted to talk about the counties where the problem is greatest and where there is the most need for help. And the fact that governments are constantly assigning some centres with the wrong industrial development structure rather than developing evenly nationally is clearly a government responsibility. Secretary of State, you are struggling to catch up with these regions about as much as you are trying to stop corruption, just as I am fighting obesity: I promise every January 1st, and then I go to the bakery. Thank you very much. [[Deficit from the lines of MSZP and LMP. A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2015-03-16-104	I understood that Congressman did not accept the answer. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Going to the bakery!]] I'm asking the National Assembly if you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted 102 yeses, 30 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title of a wage reduction in the public sector instead of a wage increase. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2015-03-16-105	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Over the last seven years, the real value of public service actions has been drastically reduced. The main reason for this is that, for seven years, wage tariffs have remained unchanged in the public sector. There is no resource for reward, and benefits outside the wage are constantly falling. About 60 percent of public service workers have had nominal earnings of unchanged value since 2010. The trade union assembly in their interest has repeatedly discussed with you, with your State Secretary on the issue of wages, the distortion of the labour code and certain legal status laws, and the abolition of early retirement, unfortunately often without success. The collective and individual rights of nearly 400 thousand public service workers are increasingly violated on a daily basis, and they have to work slowly 10-12 hours. And they also rejected the possibility of a minimum wage closure, which would have meant 5 percent in 2015 but not less than 10 thousand forints for the public servants," said the trade union proposal. Two years ago, nearly 12 thousand administrative workers were affected by the transformation of the district. As a result, a significant wage difference has been created between government officials carrying out the same work for the benefit of those who brought with them higher salaries by their former self-government employers. Now, the integration of government agencies, in addition to being unprofessional, will further undermine the livelihoods of those employed in the public service. The justification of the law is cynical and deceitful. I quote:, It is unreasonable to maintain the previous charges, because the incoherence of the legal rules causes wage tension. The strong position of the trade union and our position is that the only solution can be to increase the actions rather than lower the higher wages. Let us say this because the per capita income is often below the minimum level of living required by the public servants. But it seems that not only trade unions and we are protesting this, but also the President of the Republic, who has returned the individual legal status laws to Parliament. I quote: "This law amends the essential issues of the relationship between workers in the public service and professional service, sometimes more disadvantaged than before. However, the President of the Republic says something else: in the preparation of the law and in the consultation of the large number of people working in the public service, I consider the lack of representation within the framework of the conciliation to be a serious failure that I cannot agree with the law in this form. I'm sure that doesn't bother you, Minister, but what you're supposed to be doing is raising your own people's income. That's why I'm asking, is it true that from January, several state ministers received a 30 percent wage increase? If it is true, why not raise the wages of nearly 400,000 public servants who actually manage the affairs of the population? And why would the government want to further reduce the salary of more than ten thousand employees? That's what I'm waiting for. Thank you. [[16.10]]
u2015-03-16-106	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-03-16-107	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, His question gives us the opportunity to say a few words about an important issue of the almost continuous transformation of the Hungarian state. In addition to the quality of administration of the State, it is also an important part of the state reform that those who work for the State and provide public services to citizens in exchange for paid taxes receive what income they receive. After all, these incomes must guarantee the stability and predictability of the career and at the same time try to do the impossible: to compete with the competition sector at times, which is not an easy challenge at all. I'd split the public service guys into two parts. On the one hand, there are obviously sectors where wage increases were carried out with full social consensus and political consensus. After all, the wage increase for healthcare workers, which affected 95 thousand people, the wage increase for teachers, which affected 165 thousand people, the wage increase for armed bodies, which overall affects 90 thousand people, and the wage increase in other sectors in the field of public service, has not been called into question by any political force. There is a big debate about whether, in the case of municipal officials and government officials, when the state spends its own money and uses it to provide services through public administration, what wages we should expect. What I can tell you is that in June 2016 the Hungarian Government will introduce a public service career for all government officials after armed bodies, health workers and educators. Above all, we will look at the wage conditions under which municipal officials work. Your claim that the wages of ten thousand people are now affected by the transformation on 1 March, when some of the social tasks were transferred from the state to the municipalities, and in the relief system after 25 years, it was possible to establish a clear order of who gives what under what conditions and who pays the aid, another very important date, on 1 April, when territorial administrations will be transformed, and a unified territorial administration, a unified governance system will be established through government offices. I don't know if that's what you mean, because ten thousand is an overstatement, and you don't define it exactly in your question, so I'm assuming that's what you might be dealing with. Not ten thousand people will lose their wages, but first, the wages of 1800 workers will increase on 1 April, given that they have received a 30% salary supplement and will now receive a 35% salary. There are 2,800 colleagues who will actually lose their wages, mainly because they have previously held a leading position, and some 2,000 out of the 4,800 leading posts remain in the regional administrations. I believe that if we want to make good use of the money for taxpayers, transparently, then we agree that at territorial or national level, too many leaders would be a great luxury for taxpayers' tax-paying obligations. I therefore ask you to support the reduction in the number of executives in the case of territorial administration. If your question concerned how the wages of those serving in the municipalities before 2012 or those serving in the municipalities before 2014 would have been paid before 2014, let me draw your attention to the fact that, first of all, as of 1 June 2016, our aim was to have a transparent, simple, clear career for all government officials and pay the same wages for the same job, for the same responsibility for work. The fact is that the person who comes from a mayor's office in the capital city makes 300,000 HUF more than the same employee who sits next to him and does the same job. I don't think that's right. Of course, the solution is not to take it away from them, but to try to compensate for these wage conditions. But you also need to see clearly that there is no order in the public service and in the world of government officials if we do not implement wage planning and standardization. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-108	I will ask Mr Sándor Szabó if he will accept the answer.
u2015-03-16-109	Dear Minister, As long as the ministers, the deputy state secretary posts, where we have no idea what these people are actually doing, we know that this is a job accumulation; and as long as there is a ministry in your government, Minister Szijjártó, whose soccer partner drives around in a service car of HUF 17 million, I think it is completely uncredited what you are about to say. I think that this kind of waste should be eliminated, the anomalies dissolved, and the money they spend on this, they give it to the public servants. I can't accept your answer.
u2015-03-16-110	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 109 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:.Permanent reform in the administration? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi shall have the floor.
u2015-03-16-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The Magyary programme was set up as one of the achievements of the previous government cycle, which included a comprehensive reform of public administration and public services. The resources needed for the changes were covered by the State Reform Operational Programme - ÁROP - and the eGovernment Operational Programme - EKOP. The transformation and development of public administration is similarly a key objective in this government cycle. However, we have little information on development directions, their reasons and their actual progress. On 22 October 2014, the State Reform II programme, the bureaucracy reduction programme, was announced and the State Reform Committee was subsequently established on 5 November 2014 and the draft operational programme for public administration and public service development for the 2014-2020 cycle was sent to the EU Commission on 20 November 2014 and is likely to be drawn up in accordance with those programmes. In February 2015, the press informed us that the EU Commission had not adopted the draft operational programme for public administration and public service development, and that further discussions were necessary. At the same time, on 16 February 2015, a government decision contained the adoption of a plan document entitled "A public administration and public service development strategy 2014-2020." I ask you, Minister, what is the difference between the state reform II announced about six months ago but never presented to the public, the bureaucracy reduction programme and the recently adopted public administration and public service development strategy, which is also not available, so we cannot compare it. What significant objection did the EU Commission raise to the draft operational programme for public administration and public service development, for which it requested further coordination? What social debate or discussion preceded the preparation of the latest strategy? How did it come about, it will be guaranteed that EU funds will actually be used to eliminate the growing bureaucracy? After all, Hungary is still a bureaucratic obstacle course, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán stated in 2010 and, in our opinion, not much has changed since then. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-112	I now give the floor to Minister John Lazarus.
u2015-03-16-113	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you very much for this opportunity, and let me start by saying that I appreciate my fellow Member György Szilágyi's efforts to deepen himself on such a serious professional issue, and to support the government's work with this question, because the fact that we can speak on this issue alone is very helpful, and I am very serious about this. First of all, I would like the competent committees of Parliament - almost all committees - to give us the opportunity to inform all my fellow Members of Parliament about the work of the Committee on State Reform so far, as we are thorough, true, quiet, but very thorough and very effective and even instructive after half a year. So for the committees, we are ready that the State Reform Committee, which has integrated a number of social groups, organisations and professional organisations from the State Audit Office through the ministries, through workers in previous administrative areas, should inform you of the lessons learned. The aim of the state reform, as opposed to previous years, is not to withdraw money from the operation of the state, as we are faced with the situation that, on the basis of OECD studies, the Hungarian state's resources for the operation of the state coincide with the average of the European Union. [[16.20]] The employment rate is not, but the costs and operating costs are of similar magnitude. Of course, there's a number for everything, so I don't think it's wise to approach from this direction. The good approach is that if we change the state - which is always a risk, because many people in Hungary are pessimistic about uncertain changes, and they think that it is good how things are going now, and we should not change anything, but if we change it - then we need to know exactly why we are doing this. There are two reasons for the current state reform. First of all, we believe that the services provided by the state - you mentioned bureaucracy - as you can handle your affairs with the state, it is too complicated, too complicated, it works at a high cost, and it is a disproportionate burden for all voters. The Prime Minister used to express this much more firmly and at times more radically; there is great truth in his words. Another approach is how to increase competitiveness and economic growth in the 3-4 percent range. Our presumption is that a radical reduction in bureaucracy in three areas - the area of construction, access to EU funds and the implementation of a major tax procedure reform - can make a significant contribution to further growth in our economic competitiveness and thus economic growth for the population and businesses. With regard to the Committee on State Reform, let me note that the few are involved. The state reform you are asking is II. include the public administration and public service modernisation programme. But state reform also deals with other issues. The administrative and public service operational programme, which means hundreds of billions - we are talking about HUF 260 billion in the next seven years - assumes that we have a clear plan for the transformation of public administration and public service. On 24 February, this programme was published by the Prime Minister's Office on kormany.hu, which we had previously - in response to your question - consulted with sixty social organisations, including scientific organisations, Academy, ex-constitutional organisations, former trade unions, administrative faculty, and after this social debate we sent the programme to Brussels. In Brussels, the question arose - also in response to his question - whether or not the transformation of public administration will shorten the administrative deadline, move us further towards e-government, make it easier for voters to deal with. We will answer these questions. It is expected that the programme will be adopted by the European Commission in March to April and that the whole system will begin to be transformed in order to make it easier for customers and the economy more competitive. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-114	I ask Congressman György Szilágyi if he will accept the answer.
u2015-03-16-115	Thank you very much. Minister, we have not learned many concrete things about the big difference between the two programmes that have been prepared within six months. You talked about competitiveness. On the basis of the Global Competitiveness Report, Hungary is ranked 24th of the 28 EU Member States, which is neither a source of comfort nor satisfaction. On the basis of the survey, the main driver of incompetence is transparent bureaucracy and corruption. Professional, efficient public operation is therefore one of the most important factors in which the short- and medium-term development and rise of our country may depend. The EU resources spent on the basis of the concepts and strategies that you have drawn up with the wound lobby will have to be accounted for to Brussels by the next government, so it is particularly important for me and my fellow opposition Members to be aware of the accounts they leave us, because we will have to account for the money that you are now spending to Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Noise on the pro-government side.]]
u2015-03-16-116	I understood that Congressman did not accept the answer, so I am asking the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 106 votes to 28, 28 against and without abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we move on to immediate questioning. As the first speaker, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP. You want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Is this the tenth hole?" It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Mr. János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for a personal answer.
u2015-03-16-117	I would like to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-03-16-118	Thank you. The Prime Minister must answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Molnár, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: what agricultural aspects have national security interests been revised? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the Secretary of State or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2015-03-16-119	I accept the identity of Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-120	Thank you. You have the floor.
u2015-03-16-121	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Over the past few weeks and months, Szilárd Kiss's case, who appears to be an agricultural attaché, sometimes as a government commissioner, as a government commissioner, is mostly a criminal case. I would ask, with respect to Minister and the Secretary of State appointed to reply, what do we know about who, when and how Szilárd Kiss has been appointed in the past, and what was the very important aspect that overrided the two opinions of the Constitutional Protection Office, which identified a national security risk in the case of Szilárd Kiss. I ask Mr Secretary of State not to answer that this was legal and regular, because the question is not whether it was possible to appoint a person in the absence of a national security opinion, even in the case of a national security risk assessment, because this could be considered. I would ask what was the very important aspect that overestimated the existence of national security risk, what was the special reason and expertise that Szilárd Kiss had. In the present situation, not only the opposition is asking this question, but the whole Hungarian society. And it is also a question of how faith in national security services has been undermined, because we are talking about putting such an important trust in Szilárd Kiss despite an obvious, twice established risk. So I'm asking you, what could possibly have been the undisputed intention, opportunity and knowledge that, in the case of Szilárd Kiss, overrided the previously applied unbroken practice that, in particular, in the field of foreign affairs, no one was appointed in the absence of national security expertise and integrity. Thank you. I look forward to your answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-16-122	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-03-16-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I'll tell you everything I know about this case, all the information I have. The arrest of Szilárd Kiss has nothing to do with the work he has done for the Ministry of Agriculture. He worked as a diplomat in Moscow, he was not a direct colleague of the Minister, and he received no other allowance for his work than his wages. In relation to the national security control of Szilárd Kiss, the Ministry of Agriculture cannot provide information pursuant to the Act on the compulsory investigation or the conclusion of the document. The Ministry has no further information on the case. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-124	Mr Zsolt Molnár shall have the floor.
u2015-03-16-125	I think it is certainly a forward-looking answer that he did not at least say that Szilárd Kiss is also Szilárd Kiss, and the former socialist governments are responsible for what has happened. [[György Balla: It's true!]] In that way, his response is undoubtedly progressive, and we are not talking about another socialist agricultural scandal. However, your answer contained biographical data and, without a doubt, data which were not relevant to the case, which do not respond to it - even if it is as the Secretary of State said - what was the special aspect that only Szilárd Kiss had, and which made it necessary to reconsider the double opinion of the Constitutional Protection Office. Therefore, I am still waiting not only for the answer, not only for the Socialist Group, but for all Hungarian people: what is the reason why, although the Constitutional Protection Office finds twice that there is a security risk in Szilárd Kiss, is still appointed as an agricultural attaché? I still did not get an answer to the reasons for this.
u2015-03-16-126	I give the floor to Mr István Nagy in return. [[16.30]]
u2015-03-16-127	My dear fellow Member, I would like to reiterate that, in relation to the national security control of Szilárd Kiss, I cannot give you any more information under the law, due to the fact that the document is classified. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-128	Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we govern in a credible way? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it important and necessary in this matter to ask the Prime Minister personally, because you are not only the President of one of the current governing parties, but you are also the Prime Minister of Hungary, and the accusations you have against you may be of quite a different weight than if you say anything to any of us. Without a doubt, your long-term confidant and personal friend, if we may believe him, has made very serious accusations to you. In particular, in a recent interview, you said nothing less than that during your joint military experience, you reported to the authorities, the authorities, and left the loophole open what happened after your decommissioning. With all due respect, the statement made factually by Lajos Simicska, namely that you cooperated with the III/IV main group, is true. Is it really true that you talked to him about the need to report it, and did that happen? In light of this, I look forward to what happened later. I would leave the various marks and ratings now, but for the sake of fact, I think that if the Prime Minister of Hungary can be accused of such accusations, it could also pose serious national security risks, possibly in a foreign policy situation and situation that now surrounds Hungary. I respectfully ask you whether what Lajos Simicska said is true or not, and in light of that, your governance is credible. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-03-16-130	I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2015-03-16-131	I could take care of this in a short time, but I can't right now, because what I'd like to say to you I can't say, and what I'd like to do to those who slylyly accuse me, I can't do. I can't say it, and I can't, because the strong expressions of folklore and the common methods of folklore must be avoided by the Prime Minister. I'm in the mood for it, and I'm in the mood for it. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But it must be avoided for the Prime Minister as long as he is at the head of the country. But it won't last forever. There's a time for everything, a time for retribution. In our area, such things are not often denied, but rejected, so all I can say to you is that what I have heard from you is ridiculous. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-132	Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has the floor.
u2015-03-16-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, On the one hand, I'm going to challenge that kind of qualification, not by me, and I'm going to ask you about your former confidant. On the other hand, because of which I believe it is necessary to ask this question in public, it is that if we set a chronological order, in the last five years only what Jobbik and other opposition representatives have submitted: you have not supported the Lustration proposal, you have not once supported the exclusion of former functionaries, the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions, you have not supported the full disclosure of the agent lists. And in light of all that, it's not baseless, or strangely, to say the least, such an accusation may seem true when it comes to you or you. After all, actions have been quite counterintuitive to communication and have been effective to this day. And then one last question: in the light of all this, do you support these proposals again, and is Prime Minister willing to ask Moscow for certain documents that could justify all this? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-134	I'll give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2015-03-16-135	Congressman! I'm not talking about the fact that if anything could have been brought up against me in the last 25 years, I'd have been wringed long ago. I would just like to say that I have always thought that the merits gained in the fight against the communist regime do not give me any advantage. So now you're not at a disadvantage. I thought, and I think today, that we should look at who has something to add to the future. In our view, the fight against communism is moral and moral, and there is no advantage in fulfilling moral duty. So we never came up with any kind of anti-communist merit. I didn't think I had to do this after 25 years. But the situation is, after all, there is a reason for all of this. The reality is that things are the other way around, just like you said. We were the target of the secret investigations. The reality is, we've been harassed, we've been intercepted, we've had agents installed on us, and we've been batoned. The reality is that we founded the first anti-communist organization. And we can be proud, and I'm proud of the fact that I've spent 25 years trying to keep the Communists from returning in a watered-down, long-step form. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A long applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-136	Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "How long will the green dossier remain under the carpet? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State's Attorney General, Since the so-called NAV scandal burst, we've been looking for the contents of this green dossier. You, Mr Attorney General, first to my fellow Member Gábor Vágó and to me on 21 February 2014 replied that, beyond what András Horváth had reported, the prosecution is also investigating fraud and tax evasion. Then, on 7 April, he requested further patience in his reply to me and to my fellow Member, Mr Cutó, last November. At the end of the investigation concluded on 13 November, he was unable to provide a meaningful reply, and he spoke about further extension. My first question would be how much longer the investigation was extended on 13 November last year, compared to where the investigation was. Was there a confrontation? I am also asking whether the circumstances of the termination of the Directorate for Major Affairs are being investigated by the prosecution. In addition, I would like to draw the attention of the Attorney General to a specific matter. There's a billion-dollar company selling sugar that somehow lost three-quarters of its accounting material. The company sold sugar for HUF 1 billion to one of the largest suppliers of trade chains in the year under investigation, and in the absence of invoices, the reviewers are trying to find out where the goods were purchased from and to whom they passed them on to, until finally, as a discount product, they were placed on the shelves of the stores. At the time, the auditors and subordinates of the Directorate-General for Priority Affairs made a request to the Director-General in October 2010 following a request from the Romanian tax authority. According to the Romanians, two Hungarian companies, Alavita Kft. and Bender-Log Kft. on paper sold to Alin World, a fictitious Romanian company, purchased sugar from Hungarian companies. Some of the Hungarian companies involved in the transaction were already under investigation. On this basis, the KÜI requested permission to verify the company's returns for the second quarter of 2009. I ask Mr. Attorney General, specifically Alawita Kft. and Bender-Log Kft. Where's the investigation going? Thank you.
u2015-03-16-138	I now give the floor to Peter Polt, the Attorney General.
u2015-03-16-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, According to András Horváth's complaint, the authorities ordered the investigation in December 2013 on suspicion of abuse of office and other crimes. The investigation is ongoing, suspecting a criminal offence at five points of fact. In one of these facts, the authority held a senior official of the NAV as a suspect on grounds of a legitimate suspicion of a misdemeanour of office. At another point of fact, there is no criminal offence on the basis of the evidence currently obtained. There are three other facts in which the investigation continues. [[16.40]] These facts relate partly to the failure of the checks, partly to the conduct of the checks; in this context, witnesses are being interviewed and very extensive documents are being obtained by the authorities. The prosecutor's office is subject to increased supervision, the last time was a detailed consultation with the investigating authority on 10 February 2015. There's still a lot of work to be done, and the investigation is extended until June 2015. The case you're asking specifically is not covered by the investigation that you're asking. I think - what you said - that there are investigations into sugar matters, that we need to verify that these investigations cover the facts that you said. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-140	I now give the floor to Congressman Schiffer.
u2015-03-16-141	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to know, Mr Attorney General, if there is an investigation into the restructuring of the Directorate for Priority Affairs and the investigation of the arrests. In the specific case, the Director-General's letter of February 2011 refuses to allow further investigation on the grounds that volume does not justify centralised control. At the same time, it also sends back the documents, which basically renders the further investigation impossible, so the case will not even be transferred to the regionally competent DG, even though the actors are not small-timers: Alavita Kft. In 2009-2010, the company received HUF 1.5 billion for losses of a few million; the company has since been cancelled. The case that András Horváth freaked out assumes that thousands of billions of people migrated from the Hungarian state register every year. The stakes are how this volume - without which there would be much more money for schools and hospitals today - can be achieved in action. What I want to know is whether or not there is an investigation into restructuring and such individual interventions. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-142	In return, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2015-03-16-143	Yes, Congressman, the investigation is being conducted in connection with the suspension of investigations, and the prosecution of suspects has taken place in such a case, so this part is being investigated by the investigating authority. Once again, I would like to say that a number of other investigations are under way that seek to explore the circumstances of the VAT offences you have mentioned in sugar, cereals and other matters. I think the green dossier is open, which you mentioned, and hopefully, as we keep moving forward in time and investigation, we'll find out how much truth it has. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-144	Dear Parliament, György Balla, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, How much did the leaders of the MNB make during the mandate of András Simor? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity.
u2015-03-16-145	Of course.
u2015-03-16-146	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, a rather scandalous piece of information ruffled the moods about the fabulous payments made by the central bank led by András Simor. If the news is true, then the leaders of that time can take all kinds of bonuses in addition to their very little salary. In 2010, the money taps were blocked here too, so it is right for my fellow Members to say why we are taking these old cases out. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, a member of the Bajnai Party, is constantly attacking the central bank, outside Parliament and within Parliament. Not the one that allowed these payments, but the one that is now; not the one that has done nothing practically, not reduced, but increased the basic interest rates by making lending impossible. It is not attacking the central bank that has not revealed any socialist brokerage scandal, nor has it prevented the financial corruption of the decade, but has helped the current one; not the central bank that has not helped the foreign exchange lenders. The problem is that Congresswoman Zsuzsa Szelényi's husband, Ferenc Karvalits, is the vice president of the Central Bank at the time. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Vice-President, if the news is true, received the following bonuses with a salary of HUF 20 million a year: HUF 34 million in 2007, HUF 49 million in 2008, HUF 51 million in 2009, HUF 36 million in 2010, virtually for nothing. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to know if this information is real, and in this period, the central bank was either loss-making or profitable. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-148	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-03-16-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The figures are real, which you listed as regards the income of the Vice President. During the presidency of András Simor, between 2007 and 2012, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank recorded 25 billion losses, but this did not show up in its income, as the President of the Central Bank's annual income in 2009, for example, was 350 thousand euros. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] But we are trying to compare this salary and income with the income of the central bank presidents of other countries: for example, the President of the ECB earned nine times the average German wage at the same time, the President of the Board of Governors of Fed earns four and a half times, the President of the Czech Central Bank 16 times, and András Simor Hungarian Central Bank President more than 41 times the average annual gross national income. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Forty-one?]] She was looking for her forty-one, yes. Of course, the first measures taken by the government to take office in 2010 were to regulate the wage ceiling for state leaders and to eliminate disproportionateities. The then president of the MNB was also concerned with this issue, and after 2010, his income was already proportionate to the work carried out and to the activities carried out by the central bank presidents of other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-150	Mr. György Balla has the floor.
u2015-03-16-151	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. So here's the thing: the vice-president of a HUF 25 billion loss bank made HUF 324 million during his vice-presidentship. If there is no government change in 2010, there is no wage ceiling, this income will exceed HUF 600 million. Today, the wife of this vice-president is attacking the current central bank, where there is no such income, while this central bank is constantly taking steps that are good for the Hungarian economy and good for Hungarian businesses. When these bonuses were, honourable Members - once again, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 - we were in the middle of the financial crisis. Gordon Bajnai - whose buddy Ferenc Karvalits worked together in Wallis - withdrew one month's pension from pensioners, his predecessor Ferenc Gyurcsány from civil servants for a month's wages [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , frozen the payroll, while in the central bank, in the central bank led by the left, they paid shocking bonuses. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen, and today we see that the Vice-President's wife is not [[The president's ringing again.]] You object to it, but to the current central bank. What do you think of that? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Nagy: Skandalum!]]
u2015-03-16-152	I would ask my fellow Members to respect the timeframe, no matter how important it is. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-153	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman! Rather, I would suggest that President András Simor's activities be changed so that we can think about it. Why did he block the merger of the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions and the Hungarian National Bank? Because there should have been effective work in the field of financial services at the time. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Secretary of State, what about Matolcsy?]] [[16.50]] The other question is that Mr András Simor, if we recall why he took his savings abroad, Congressman, because let us remember that an investigation was carried out against András Simon at that time. Did András Simor already know anything about the financial system at the time, financial services providers, brokerage companies, and his money were safer if he placed it abroad? These issues are thoughtful, especially if we miss this loss and this outstanding income. So it is true that the problem, the big problem, the financial decade scandal started in the country at the time of the socialists. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-154	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. Is this part of the internal war? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes shall have the floor.
u2015-03-16-155	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, It seems that companies under the control of the Ministry of National Development have little control over the payment of non-wage benefits that workers are entitled to. Since January 1st, although employees can read on their payroll papers that they are entitled to cafeteria, but they do not receive their benefits, their companies do not refer to their voluntary pension funds. It is not enough that on 1 January you have deprived these people of the possibility of early retirement, but now you are preventing them from taking care of themselves. They were deprived of the age discount that their own employers had paid them in advance. They paid their contributions in advance, yet you took away the opportunity to retire. Dear Minister, I suppose you're wondering why I'm asking you about this case. Well, because your approval letter has been waiting for the entire sector since January 1st, all employees. In December 2014, MVM announced to the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd., through them the benefits payable to employees by the Prime Minister's Office, as is customary, but payment of benefits cannot take place until the letter of approval has been received, and this approval letter - you have not yet signed - has not yet come to them from you. Dear Minister, When do workers get the benefits they deserve? What compensation can workers expect from the government? Whose slob is it that simple workers don't get what's coming to them? And I'd also like to ask why this paper hasn't been signed in two and a half months. You're not gonna use MVM's cafeteria issue in the Orbán-Simicska domestic war, are you? It's not about trying to beat the dust on them, is it, Minister? I'm asking you when you're gonna sign these papers.
u2015-03-16-156	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-03-16-157	Thank you very much for the question from my dear fellow Member. There are few people in this room who would know exactly the first part of what they have to say. Indeed, exciting things are happening in the Hungarian state apparatus, because the Prime Minister's Office is an organization within the government that is the cause of all evil and has nothing to do with any good. It follows that I believe that the Director of Human Policy wrote a letter to the employees that he, as a good company manager, put forward for the employees a request for referral for cafeteria and other allowances, and he already did so in December. Don't take this the wrong way, I don't know this from the Hungarian Electric Works, but one of the employees has already contacted me, justifying the circular by paying us - they say at the Hungarian Electricity Works - but here is the Prime Minister's Office, who should contribute to this and we are waiting for his approval. The fact is that after a long and thorough investigation, I was able to unravel the threads that it might have existed in 2010-11, there was probably a rule that bound such payments to the approval of the then Minister of Administration and Justice. Since the Prime Minister's Office is partly heir to the former KIM, they can assume - with good grace, I hope - that I have also received this fantastic power, but it is not so, given that the legislation has changed in the meantime, and the ministries concerned have only notification and information obligations. [[Dr. János Fónagy: That's right!]] So my opinion is that it must be done legally, that workers must be paid urgently for what is due, but I must add that I do not have the right to permit it or to direct it. In any case, I've contacted the Ministry of National Development's Secretary of State for Administration to make the payment immediately. My department and myself, in any way, do not object to this, if the workers feel that way, then I apologize to them here and now. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-158	I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2015-03-16-159	Thank you very much for the floor. This is a 2011 government resolution, on the basis of which you said, Minister, that, by the way, you have the authority, we are very much looking forward to it being signed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You don't understand.]] For example, Mr Pakson, I know that the trade unions have given the CEO a deadline until Wednesday to deal with it, if not, they will go to court, because you have violated the rights of trade unions, but these trade unions will stand up for their employees even if they have to, and they will go to court in this case if they have to. If you don't sign by Friday, I think there will be protests in this sector. You can't do anything to these people who sense that their cafeteria didn't get to the right place, because it's true that the people in the ministries probably don't feel that if this money isn't paid, but at home they do. So we're really looking forward to this being paid, and if we don't, we're gonna be asking for it.
u2015-03-16-160	I give the floor to Minister.
u2015-03-16-161	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I cannot give up my bad habit of reading the mail I receive personally, so it is unthinkable that the CEO or the board of directors of Hungarian Electricity would have come to me for permission for any payment. If such a letter existed, I would have read that there is a filing order and, of course, I would have answered on time. What I can imagine is that for some reason, they don't want to pay the employees, and they want to beat it down at the Prime Minister's Office, typical of the government apparatus. But when he got to me, I got to know this HR circular, ordered an investigation, instructed my colleagues to do everything they could to make payments, because we agree that every employee should get what is due. That is a completely different question, and it does not concern cafeteria, but the subject of a long-term discussion may be how much the leaders of public companies will have to earn. It will be mentioned several times in Parliament, we will have to discuss this separately, but the workers must receive all the benefits they deserve, and I have taken measures to do so, even if you do not want to understand my answer that way. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Robert Répássy: Or rather nothing.]]
u2015-03-16-162	Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. When will they fulfill their own promises? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he agrees to accept the identity of the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-163	I'll take it.
u2015-03-16-164	Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, After the covert and shady Prime Minister's threat a few minutes ago, let's go to more peaceful waters. [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]] Among the walls of this House, we have often debated the reduction of VAT on basic foodstuffs from 27% to 5%. On this subject, the Jobbik Group of the Movement for Hungary already submitted a comprehensive proposal on 9 November 2012, in which the 2007 General Sales Tax CXXVII. We wanted to amend the related Annex 3 to Act No 3. The point of our amendment was to reduce the VAT on different types of meat, fruit and vegetables, bread, bakery products, milk and dairy products, which are indeed basic foods, by 22 percent. This was not taken into consideration at the time, and the competent committee of the Parliament swept it off the table - as is a bad fidesz custom - and they constantly referred to it, as we have repeatedly asked why this was not considered important in interpellations, questions and various genres of Parliament, as you have repeatedly promised in the opposition between 2006 and 2010 that you have also submitted several proposals on this subject. [[Dr. István Tiba takes the notary seat.]] If in opposition it was considered important, feasible, feasible, not demagogic and exaggeration-free, then why do you think this is the 2012 autumn right-wing proposal? Your answer was constantly that you cannot control it, you cannot guarantee that the VAT reduction will be reduced in consumer prices, so in Hungarian, it is not certain that consumer prices will also decrease by 22%; I note that this is only a question of properly organised state control. If the Hungarian people or the Hungarian car society or the broad sections of society are being controlled because they want to control it because their political will extends to it, this could also be controlled. In fact, you have made empty excuses and no longer considered important in the government what has been promised several times from opposition. So that's what I'm asking you, when you intend to make your own promises. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-166	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-167	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the Fidesz government has transformed the tax system and said that more taxes on consumption and turnover, higher taxes, and at the same time lower taxes on income acquired, be it the self-employed or social enterprise - see corporate tax - or private individuals, and here I would like to highlight the introduction of a single-key tax. [[17.00]] I think it is a very important question of how much people buy and how much they buy. The government has given several answers to the question of how much to buy, with the reduction of the rent, there is more money left for people, with the settlement of foreign exchange loans there will also be more money for people, real wages have increased in recent years, the transformation of this tax system means that more money will be left in people's pockets. And, of course, the question is how much they buy. This is a very interesting issue in our situation today, because prices decreased by 1.4 percent in December, for example, and inflation in 2014 was not in essence, but rather a fall in prices in Hungary. Of course, this does not mean that it is not a good and healthy country and society where it can be consumed as cheaply as possible, where incomes are rising, and of course consumption is also decreasing. I believe that this will also be the time, our economic growth, our 2014 performance, which is the highest in Europe - 3.6 percent - rightfully gives us the right to increase the Hungarian economy, increase the people's income, and then the moment will come when VAT will also be reduced in the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-16-168	I now give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2015-03-16-169	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The main question is when the time will come. I would like to remind you that on 12 March 2009 you signed the same proposal together with Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó; at that time you were still in opposition. Basically, it was presented together with the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, which was then voted off in the form of a better proposal. This is why it would be important to reduce the VAT on basic foods, because what people fail to do when they win in the gap, even if they have to spend a lot more on significantly increased food, because of the reduction in the overhead costs. The only fact is that on 13 March 2009 on fidesz.hu it is literally stated that this proposal of 12 March was already the third proposal in that cycle, so it was considered feasible three times, the same secretary of state, which he is now trying to prove with various tales and rumors that it is not feasible. It can be done, it only requires will, and this will is lacking. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-170	I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2015-03-16-171	Dear Parliament, We are not so bad, as retail consumption has increased by more than 5 percent in the last year. At Christmas, people never bought for as much as they did last year. If things were so bad and people couldn't shop because of VAT, it would obviously show up in numbers. I think that a responsible decision is necessary if the VAT is significantly reduced, because smearing by a percentage or two is worthless or significantly reduced or cannot be reduced. This could amount to significant, hundreds of billions of HUF revenue for the budget, and there may even be a situation where the revenue is lost and the price is not reduced at the same time. Because let's just remember the time of the socialists, the socialists reduced the VAT, and the prices, let alone decreased, increased. All I'm saying is, let's cut the VAT, but when the time comes, let's be responsible. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: When did it decrease?]]
u2015-03-16-172	Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what measures have been taken in recent years to reduce flood risks? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity.
u2015-03-16-173	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-03-16-174	Yeah, he'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The calendar is mid-March, and we remember that in recent years there have been very serious floods in this country in the last 10-15-20 years. Although forecasts are becoming more and more accurate to warn of the coming of floods, floods in the history of extreme floods with unprecedented speed, successive floods exceeding previous water levels in our time prove that the traditional means of flood control are being exhausted. This is also confirmed by the fact that while the water masses during the floods do not increase, the peak water levels resulting from their deflection are rising. For example, the Danube's water level broke the record three times in 10 years at Budapest, although the river's water yield remained essentially unchanged. Flooding is a serious problem not only in our country, but across Europe. The great European floods of the two thousand years have shown that flood protection must be managed at European level, it cannot be a matter of the home affairs of a Member State, given that the impact of the necessary interventions transcends national borders. That is why the European Parliament and the Council were born in 2007/60. Directive on the assessment and management of flood risks. This is a directive that is particularly important for Hungary, given that it is the biggest flood risk ratio and has therefore suffered a competitive disadvantage against other Member States due to the size of defence expenditure. Dear Secretary of State, What measures have been taken in recent years to reduce flood risks? Where is the government in developing the flood risk management programme? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-176	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-03-16-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, About 5 percent of the water in the country is produced in Hungary, while the other 95 percent come from foreign river basins. Both this effect and the extreme manifestations of the weather have led to floods greater than ever before in Hungary in recent years. The aim of flood protection developments is to keep these floods in constant control and to protect human and material goods. Steps have been taken in two directions, on the one hand, to change legislation and technical preparation, during which, on the one hand, the profession has developed a new system of determining the level of the relevant flood. So far, the calculation of the highest current floods has been derived from the statistical average of water heights, and now all this is derived from the volume of water. This is more of a follow-up to the current river basins and the conditions of the river basins. In order to improve the conditions of the river basins, the revision of the basins and the plans for their maintenance have been completed, unfortunately, the feral agricultural areas, the undergrowths of forests and the constructions are now hindering the safe drainage of floods. An action has been taken to modernise the localisation plans of the exempted flood areas, and the Vásárhelyi plan is under way, and a further development programme has also been implemented, in connection with which several flood reservoirs have been built or are being built. Over the next period, about 721 million cubic metres of reservoir capacity will be developed in the Tisza Valley. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-16-178	I now give the floor to Congressman László Földi.
u2015-03-16-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The implementation of the Vásárhelyi plan is a very serious step, especially along the Tisza area, in the Tisza river basin area, as both the rivers of northern Hungary and the rivers from the south flow into the Tisza, and the danger of the people living there is quite high. I very much hope that if the Vásárhelyi plan is fully built, then the people who live here, not only the people who live here, but also their possessions, will be safe, and they will not have to be afraid of more serious floods in the spring. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-180	In return, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2015-03-16-181	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, For further work on the Vásárhelyi plan, the government intends to spend HUF 17 billion in the period 14-20, HUF 50 billion for the development of the flood protection protection lines in Tisza Valley, two additional flood reservoirs in Central-Tisza are built. The expected cost of these will be approximately HUF 40 billion. [[17.10]] As part of the development of the Upper Tisza flood protection system, a new flood reservoir is also being developed and we intend to use HUF 150 billion from KEHOP between 2014 and 2020. In addition, a flood hazard and risk map has been drawn up and a national programme is being developed with its strategic plans and coordination of EU developments to implement all the programmes that we have planned for flood protection. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-182	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-183	Dear House, Dear Minister, While there is an increasing scandal surrounding the implementation of the EU-funded project, we still do not know why the government is waiting for a thorough investigation. The LMP has revealed a number of reverse details of the programme, the implementation of which is carried out by the National Roma Municipality, the former president of which is Flórian Farkas Fidesz, Member of Parliament, and is now Prime Minister's Commissioner. He is also the chairman of the employment cooperative managing the resources of the programme. The LMP found out that a significant proportion of the funds for catching up, hundreds of millions of forints were spent buying luxury offices, renting the most expensive Opel Corsai in the world, writing tens of millions of forints of studies or purchasing expensive office furniture and computer equipment, to mention just a few examples of wasteful use of resources. We could be sure of these in person, because although Flórian Farkas did not receive us, the project leaders were finally able to meet us at the 200 million project office on Gellérthegy Street. Last two weeks ago, we drew attention to maladministration and wastage in a speech before the agenda. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the EMMI, responded to the arguments, but tried to base the situation. He didn't say a word about the details of the alleged EMMI investigation. In the meantime, another report was filed, and the IRS also came forward. But what does the government do? Last time we received no response from the Secretary of State of Rétvári, we ask again, now the Prime Minister's Office: why not use the entire government control apparatus to investigate the waste of catching up money?
u2015-03-16-184	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-03-16-185	Thank you for asking. Dear fellow Member, Mr President, Dear House, It is a HUF 4 billion HUF 995 million programme with three implementations: the National Roma Municipality, the Türr István Training and Research Institute and the Ministry of National Economy. The Ministry of National Economy is responsible for the employment part, and from this program, besides the ones highlighted by you, the Ministry of National Economy would like to carry out a training course for plumbing, woodworking, sculpting, waterproofing, heat-wrapping, vegetable-fruit processing, trained sewing and trained kitchen accompaniment in the form of OKJ training in the field of employment policy. Indeed, on your last question, as I have heard myself, the Ministry of Human Resources has told you that an investigation is under way, and I would like to wait for the end of this inquiry, even if, despite my request, my fellow Member Flórian Farkas did not attend a discussion that would perhaps have been aimed at my advice to clarify the situation, especially given that the cost of catching up or integrating the Roma community in Hungary, the professional, reasonable and legitimate use of available resources, is in the interest of all of us. I am convinced that there is basically no problem with the programme - you cannot object to the programme itself - but that it is necessary to check whether this programme has been done legally and properly. At the same time, you know very well that the implementation of a program in this community is very easy to accuse by the fact that they have acted unfairly, it is very easy to accuse by the fact that, well, well, the gypsies steal everything. I think this is wrong, in general, in Parliament and everywhere, and I think that this community deserves much more patience, given that it has not had the opportunity to implement programmes of this type, this community has no such practice. I can't tell you if there's been an irregularity, but I do know that the Ministry of Human Resources first, and then, if necessary, the government will investigate it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-186	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-16-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Of course, it occurs to us to find the person responsible, and surely there is. I'm sure you can see that there are serious abuses here, but that's not our real concern. Our real concern is that nearly HUF 5 billion, mentioned by you, can actually be translated for this catch-up, whether it will not happen here in the long-term EMMI investigation, that it will begin to examine this, whether it is the EU Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, and the end of the story will be that it will have to be paid back instead of achieving this very important catch-up goal. We asked the EMMI, and we didn't get an answer to the details. We hope that this is progressing, but we are afraid that, as a result of the many expectations, there will be an investigation in the EU. We would very much like to see this resolved within the borders and to get to the bottom of this problem, so that this project can be implemented fairly and properly. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2015-03-16-188	Mr. Secretary, that's the word.
u2015-03-16-189	I think, Mr Congressman, knowing your patience and wisdom, that you believe me and agree with me that, when we talk about this issue and look at this matter, we need greater consideration than average, given that many people in Hungary tend to take care of the Roma community in Hungary with one hand or accuse me, where appropriate, and make accusations that are primarily based on conviction and not on facts. There is no way that this is the case in your case, but it is particularly important for me to examine these charges with greater caution than average. Not to dispute your good intentions, nor to argue that there may be a mistake, I would like you to have the patience - I promise you that I will do everything in my power to ensure that the investigation is made public and completed as soon as possible in the first place - and to accept that in this community and in the case of this community, more than average attention, sound statements, more than average, and more informed and more patient. I need your help with that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-190	Dear Parliament, Árpád Velez, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Enchanted Castle? What's your wallet idea of the future of the hospital in Csákvár? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity.
u2015-03-16-191	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2015-03-16-192	All right. Thank you very much. Then Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Financial disaster tourist one of Fidesz's parliamentary representatives in the Fidesz brokerage scandal? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Mr. Congressman if he accepts the identity of the Secretary of State. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I accept.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Quaestor case is taking its victims, and now there are individuals, companies, and new municipalities who have invested in good faith and managed their money in good faith. Thus, unfortunately, the municipality of Törökszentmiklós of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County was also involved in the Quaestorian wholesale brokerage scandal, which is not fidesz, it is a common political product for former governments, so the scandal is also common. But there is a thread that ties them close enough to Fidesz, and with Turkszentmiklós, this thread is that the Fidesz municipality did and placed its money there first, and first concluded a contract with Quaestor to manage the money. The next thread, on the other hand, when the broker scandal hit, is that the Fidesz regional MP, István Happy, appeared as a disaster tourist and a financial disaster tourist on the site, and is in the mood for social media with gloating statements, looking for responsibility on everyone else, looking for blame on those who shouldn't, even though they should be looking for faults in pro-government leadership, in pro-government supervision. [[17.20]] Instead of playing a financial disaster tourist, we recommend that you take advantage of the interests of Fidesz and Fidesen, stand up for compensation, or, if you cannot or do not want to help, at least do not harm the inhabitants of Turkey and the neighbourhood. Enough of the big coalition broker scandal, he'll eliminate financial corruption if he goes to the Jobbik government. However, the question remains for you: does the government plan and, if at all, how do you intend to compensate the municipalities involved in the Quaestor case, such as the municipality of Törökszentmiklós? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-194	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The congressman said a lot of things in two minutes. As regards the government's responsibility, I do not understand how the government's responsibility comes here, since it does not have a licence to control it, nor does it have a right to manage or retain money in respect of the municipalities concerned. So I don't really get it. You can't give orders to the Hungarian National Bank, you can't ask for them, the National Assembly can do that. With the brokerage companies, the government, the government, essentially, had no relationship. I think that, indeed, the emphasis is rather on the fact that the local authorities concerned, the organisations that carry out public tasks and lost their public money in this unfortunate event, the scandal, how there is life for them. We know that the municipalities that led their accounts at DRB Bank have not provided them with any support, so the government has already provided them with a first aid to pay wages and aid. And it is now being assessed in relation to the municipalities concerned how much resources are left in these banks in respect of their institutions, their companies or their foundations. However, the situation is quite different with regard to the money deposited or deposited as an investment in the investment service, since it was the municipality's own decision, obviously for the benefit of the municipality. For the time being, the government is assessing the damage suffered by the municipalities in the event of the use of the banking service, and the government will deal with an appropriate proposal on how to compensate these municipalities.
u2015-03-16-196	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-03-16-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you're talking about consummation, it doesn't suit you, or you don't look any better, the answers you've been listening to today were also a rumour. But you know what, I'd rather you answer those questions and give me an answer so that it's time and the government can move on to protect voters who are involved in the fidesz and MSZP broker scandal through the municipalities. He could also have replied whether or not the government would have helped; how he would have wanted to compensate the banking system or through his own system; and how he would have prevented Fidesz financial disaster tourism representatives from covering the municipalities and bragging about the local government's disadvantage and making jokes about it and polemizing on it. That's what you should have said, Secretary of State, and you didn't give me an answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-198	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2015-03-16-199	Thank you very much. You can't really understand what you're really asking. What you asked me, I answered, I told you there was a transmission, and there will be a submission to the government. You asked me that, and I answered that. But you should have listened to me at today's parliamentary session, because, by the way, many of us have talked about the solution here, too, Mr Antal Rogán, myself, that a draft law has already been drawn up by the Ministry of National Economy. Moreover, the Hungarian National Bank has also prepared a draft law that will ensure that controls are tightened in the case of these financial services providers and that the consequences of committing a crime will be much more serious. But indeed, the most important thing is how the person who is a public body, the municipality, the money of those, the operation of them is ensured. And what I can tell you is that in this regard, the government is responsible and will help. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-200	Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2013 LIV on the implementation of the reductions in energy prices in order to ensure a fair transmission to the population of the positive effects of the reduction in energy prices on the world market. T/2795. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, For the first time, I will give the floor to the author within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-03-16-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The basic proposal, which lies before you and which, unfortunately, has been rejected by the Economic Committee, is about the fall in prices and the reduction in gas prices due to the evolution of oil prices on the world market. Not only has the price of oil fallen, as I mentioned, but also the world market price for gas, which is a gas that can be obtained from Western Europe, earlier, but, as Minister Péter Szijjártó acknowledged in a background discussion with journalists, this reduction in oil prices has also appeared in the price of Russian gas, as he said: at present, USD 260 per thousand cubic metres is to be paid for gas from Russia. This amount and that price less than a year ago, at the beginning of last autumn, was still $360, so you can see that there was a price drop of about $100 in terms of gas prices from Russia. The main point of the proposal is to deliver this price drop to Hungarian consumers, not only to gas consumers but also to electricity and district heating consumers, with a reduction of 20 per cent for gas bills and a reduction of 10 per cent for district heating and electricity bills. As I said, the ordinary people would benefit from this proposal, so this benefit should be granted by means of an average consumption. So this is where justice comes in the proposal, according to which not everyone who heats their swimming pool or sauna would get the benefit of this cheap gas, but those who consume it around the average consumption. Several questions were asked in this regard in the Economic Committee. I would like to stress that one of the questions is about what if the price of gas is rising. So the answer to this - and I would like to highlight this - is that this discount remains, so up to an average consumption of 20 per cent for gas prices, for district heating and electricity, a 10-10 per cent price reduction and a discount would be maintained. The other excuse, because I asked the Ministry more questions, was that last year the dollar-forint exchange rate looked different, because the dollar was stronger than the forint. Obviously, I will not explain the reasons for this economic policy right now, but I would also like to point out here that, even because of the exchange rate change, there is a price reduction of almost 25-30 per cent for Russian gas and a price reduction in forints. So this should be sent to the Hungarian people. Some market analysts say that, after this did not happen, Hungarian consumers did not receive this discount, the Hungarian electricity companies and their gas dealers have already made about 20-25 billion HUF profit. And even though I asked a lot of questions about this, I didn't get an answer to what he was spending it on, what the Hungarian Electric Works and their gas dealers spent it on, why he didn't send it to consumers. The answer was that there is an independent energy agency in Hungary that sets consumer prices. Now, it turns out here that the energy agency cannot respond to this price drop because the company and group under the supervision of Hungarian Electricity Industries, Minister Miklós Seszták refuse to release the data to the energy office on the basis of which the price could be adjusted. [[17 .30]] I think this is outrageous, because the Energy Authority has already imposed a fine of HUF 20 million on the state company. It is untenable, it is simply incomprehensible why a state-owned company does not disclose the data. We will also have a proposal to tighten sanctions here. I ask you, if you really feel responsible for ordinary consumers, ordinary people, then support this bill. Once again, market conditions justify this price reduction. So there is a real basis for gas, district heating and electricity bills to be reduced by 20 percent and 10-10 percent, respectively, to average consumption. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-202	Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of Members can present his position in a two-minute time frame, as well as the first independent Member to speak in a two-minute time frame. Therefore, I give the floor first to Mr István Németh Szilárd.
u2015-03-16-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The MSZP proposal is lying, cynical and completely uncredited. Liar, cynical and uncredited, because when they had the opportunity to reduce the price of domestic gas and electricity, we Hungarians paid the highest cost of electricity in Europe. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: No, it's not true!]] When it was possible to radically reduce - and this is the most insolence in this proposal - [[Zoltán Grimlock: How do you speak? Where are we? Why don't you go wrestle?]] Between 2008 and 2010, when world market prices fell sharply, your energy office, of course with the strong support and assistance of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, accepted each of their price increase proposals to the companies you privatized. So they made Hungarian households, Hungarian families, pay for the lost profits caused by the global economic crisis for these companies. Today, we are paying the second cheapest gas price in Europe, and precisely thanks to the reduction in the cost of electricity, we are also the second in Europe. If you look at it in numbers, they pay 113 forints instead of 151 forints today [[Zoltán Pride: Because the price has decreased, that's why!]] Hungarian families pay HUF 37 per cubic meter for household gas and instead of HUF 49 for electricity per kilowatt hour. The so-called reduction in overhead costs you're proposing is also uncredited, lying and cynical for other reasons. After all, when we started to reduce the costs after the 2010 price freeze, from 1 January 2013, you went all the way across the country, here in Parliament you attacked the reduction of the rent, everything is watered down, the whole system is going to collapse, otherwise it's all just a big lie, and it's only going to take until the elections. And then I just mentioned the most delicious terms of what they said. Fidesz does not support the inclusion of this proposal in the series. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Applause!]]
u2015-03-16-204	I now give the floor to Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, in two minutes.
u2015-03-16-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, it should be borne in mind that, when and when they have the opportunity and opportunity to do so, all the things that are being formulated in connection with the proposal and, therefore, to reduce the costs for people under average earning, they do or do not do so. It's that simple. It's that simple, and it's not bluffed, and it's gone. You do not do exactly what it would be your duty to do: to act for people who are in a more constrained situation. For you, I know, it has not been important for many years, five years, and before that, to care for people who have a low income or not a high income, as a Member of Parliament or an entrepreneur who can freely afford to bear the costs, you do not want to take care of the low incomes in this respect. All you need from them is their vote, their vote, nothing else. But people are becoming more and more unconcealable. [[Németh Szilárd István: Really?]] It's not random to turn away from you like you're facing a wall. It's a very simple story. If they still have one drop of common sense, they will accept the indication that is born by the Hungarian Socialist Party, and they will support people with low incomes more and more intensively with their two hands in every respect, which is about minimising the costs borne by them. This proposal is clearly about this. Well, the source was definitely a match. So I would just like to ask you once again with a lot of emphasis and force: do what you can do for the average and the people who earn below the average, and reduce their costs, not their own and not their buddies. Thank you very much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And not MET!]] - Applause from the benches of MSZP. )
u2015-03-16-206	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli of Jobbik.
u2015-03-16-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If Fidesz had created half of the million new jobs on a pro rata basis over the past five years, i.e. five hundred thousand new jobs that it promised in 2010 and could provide people with decent, normal wages, then that would not be the issue. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] And after eight plus four years of socialist government, we have no illusions as to how serious this intention or idea is on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party. However, Jobbik came into Parliament at the time with the principle that any initiative that improves, helps or supports the situation of Hungarian families will also be supported. Therefore, we can also support the inclusion of this initiative in the series of subjects, and if the series of articles takes place, for which I do not see much of a chance after the pro-government speech, we can discuss how this proposal could really be qualified to help the most deprived sections of Hungarian society in a differentiated way on the basis of the social situation. In the meantime, however, we can only see this initiative as a political catch and a political opportunity to profit. However, as a sign of our good intentions, we support the initiative as a sign of our good intentions for the Hungarian society, because - once again as a closing point - we will always support any initiative that serves the interests of Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-16-208	I now give the floor to Mr Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP.
u2015-03-16-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It looks like after two years of fighting, a lot of fuss and minimal results, the ruckus seems to have drowned. Because although prices on the world market continue to decrease, this effect is not passed on by the government to domestic consumers, but this price difference is simply swallowed up. Rather, an adventurer has entered into an energy policy, which we can experience again and again. They are now buying a failed nuclear power plant construction in Slovakia, kindly to the investor left behind in the project, who would be different from the Russian Rosatom, and further fattening the profits of the government's partly Russian, partly offshore, MET owned by businessmen close to the government. Both companies transfer public goods to private pockets in the order of 100 billion, without any advantage to the Hungarian population. This is roughly the government's energy policy at the moment. If we look at it from here, we could agree with the urgent proposal of the MSZP to reduce further energy prices. It is positive that large families are distinguished. However, we remain of the opinion that Hungarian families, Hungarian households, should be given a different kind of reduction in overhead. Let's see: Compared to Austria, we use twice as much heating energy in this country, given that the quality of energy efficiency in this country is so poor. The houses are not isolated, we heat the Hungarian streets from the Russian gas. We would be doing much better if there were money in this country to isolate houses, use much less energy, and pay much less to Hungarian households. It has always been and will remain our course. We demand that the government finally stop this untenable practice, that we heat the street with Russian gas in Hungary, not give people alms, but insulated houses, so that there really is warmth in homes at this level. The gas that people buy stays in the house - there's no other way than insulation. We have been able to provide the government with a series of very effective methods, and we have tabled a parliamentary resolution proposal. I think that the whole Parliament should have the support of this exercise, and it will do us much better than with newer and newer cuts. Thank you.
u2015-03-16-210	As rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr Bertalan Tóth if he wishes to reply. [[On Dr. Bertalan Tóth's signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to reassure the Jobbik faction that we are serious about this proposal. Based on realistic data and realistic information, this bill is acceptable and these benefits can be granted up to the average consumption. [[17.40]] I would also like to say to the LMP fraction that we are deeply in agreement that the best energy is the energy not consumed, because then there is no need to pay. So support for energy efficiency programmes is of paramount importance, and we agree on that. However, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Németh, that it is quite amazing that you regularly lie about the price discount that small consumers have received until your governance, because you have abolished it and raised energy prices for two years. [[Németh Szilárd István: This was canceled by the Bajnai government! You're lying!]] and the small consumers were taken away from the price supplement, then they paid the most [[Németh Szilárd István: with effect from 1 April 2010.]] Hungarian consumers. So you guys keep this quiet on a regular basis. The other thing is that I didn't get any answers to my question about where the 20-25 billion forints that had already been saved by this Hungarian Electricity Works and its gas dealers were disappearing, and this is constantly growing from month to month. This money should be given to the Hungarian average people, to the Hungarian people who consume the average and below the average, and there is suspicion here too, because there has been cheap gas in Hungary, which you and MET stole, the knights of your Fidesz offshore. Where does this money go now? The truth is going to come out here, because the Metropolitan Court has already issued several judgments on the need to publish the data, and we are going to go until we find out where the ten billion people are going to disappear to, whether your friends are getting rich instead of giving the Hungarian average people this discount. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-212	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place tomorrow. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's what I was afraid of.]] The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/2856 on the transparency of the state security past. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the rapporteur.
u2015-03-16-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If I count correctly, but I'm not sure I'm counting correctly, I'm trying for the eighth time to put 25-year-old laundry on the table. We've hit walls all eight times, because interestingly, when it comes to the need to sort out the dirty things of the last 25 years, not only when it comes to agent files and lustration, but also when, for example, we want to make political wealth growth clearly transparent, then interestingly, Fidesz-KDNP is on the run. I would like to begin with what Prime Minister answered here an hour ago on an immediate question: of course, no one wants to question the merits of the anti-communist Viktor Orbán or the Association of Young Democrats. It's not that. First of all, I would also like to say that it is merely - how should I say it? - because of the limited framework for house rules, I have brought here a single bill for inclusion in the series of articles, as the Justice Committee has not only bravely abstained on this proposal, but also two other proposals from the May Other Group of Politics. On the one hand, we have tabled a proposal for a resolution on two things. One that is related to the subject of the Act on Civility, namely that all persons who were part of the political elite on 23 October 1989, i.e. after the day of the constitutional change, led a city, were members of Parliament, led ministries, on these persons the National Remembrance Committee should form a so-called state security profile within a closed time. Let us find out who the Hungarian people are who have led this country in the last 25 years. Don't be a rumor. Let's not have blackmail papers in the press, let's have a clear profile of the people who have been running this country for the last 25 years, if you will, as this applies to all Members of Parliament, who might have had a relationship with Communist state security. You don't think that's necessary. We also suggested that the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Hungarian Government should be consulted in Parliament's resolution to discuss with Vladimir Putin what really concerns our national self-esteem, our national sovereignty, namely, to open the documents of the KGB, NKVD with Hungarian relevance, to find out what Hungarian-related documents were accumulated in the Soviet archives between 44 and 91. You rejected that. They do not wish Viktor Orbán to discuss with Vladimir Putin what is first and foremost instead of selling the country. And last but not least, there was a proposal, a Lustration Bill on the Justice Committee table, and you said no to that, too. You fight in words, you put a pass to the beginning of the Fundamental Law that you can beat the socialists with, but when it comes to getting clean, you'll be on the run. In your opinion, it is perfectly okay that an ex-state security officer, who had also observed an anti-communist hero at the time, was now the Minister of State of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association. You think it's okay. You think it's perfectly all right that Gustav Zoltai is today an advisor to the Prime Minister's Office. You believe, my fellow Member Varga, that you are watching me on the Judicial Committee, and that is perfectly all right. I don't think it's that ridiculous. You spit on your own voters, every anti-communist lounge that's been told here in this House for the past five years is an overt lie. It's time to clear the air. The points that were made at the committee meeting last time, I think they can be arranged quite easily. Ferenc Papcsák told us to consider that if, for example, in the 1950s, a man was being dragged by the Vávos Pribeks, after 56 it did not take much to report such a man who was otherwise detained to the Cadár Secret Service. And I think that if everything gets on the table, we should trust the judgement of the Hungarian people, not only when they ask for their votes, and the Hungarian people will wisely be able to isolate who is the object of contempt for what he has done in the communist system, and who can be forgiven. Don't just trust the polling booths in the value judgment of the Hungarian people! Be public, and most importantly, because not only the past, but also the present, we need to be clear about who those who were not the little spions of the State Security Organization were standing on their command bridges, and they were able to steal this country after 1989 with the information they had acquired. We need to know that, too. You, for example, have so far been in the Judicial Committee and have been crossing it over the last seven times. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-214	Now, one Member per group of Members can give an opinion over a two-minute period. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2015-03-16-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I have calculated in the same way as my fellow Member Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, that the same proposal is coming before Parliament for the eighth time. Therefore, we are in a rather easy situation when our arguments need to be said, we can refer back to the previous seven times, when we have explained a little bit more about the reasons for our support for this proposal. It is enough, therefore, to refer back to this and to say that we will support this proposal on the basis of our previous arguments and the inclusion in the series of subjects. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-216	I am now giving the floor to Member István Szávay of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-16-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the longest time, we will now face the shame here in this House tomorrow - probably - that the clarity about the past of state security in this House is no longer hindered by the representatives of the former party of state, but Fidesz is so proud of his anti-communism, his two and a half decades of anti-communist history. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I'm an 81, by the way. In response to an immediate question, the Prime Minister again started a verbal communism for my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki, a great campaign in which he told us how much Fidesz has done over the last two and a half decades in order to make sure, somehow he said, that the Communists are not able to return even wet or in the form of a long-step. And the problem is that again it's just words and communication, my fellow Members. Not to mention the tortured lack of Prime Minister's one sentence, a very, very short, simple sentence: it was not so; or: it was not me. Or you could have said the Louis was lying. The Prime Minister, however, knows his rhetorical skills, performance, excellent sense, but what he has done here in response to this immediate question has managed to subdue himself. [[17.50]] My colleague Mr Mirkóczki asked me nothing else, Prime Minister, but whether what Lajos Simicska said about you was true or not. I find it rather sad that Prime Minister could not clearly and convincingly just say no, that is not true. Not to mention that the Prime Minister didn't answer the question of whether we would ask these materials from Moscow, whether the Hungarian Government is interested in the documents in Moscow that can compromise anyone from today's Hungarian political elite or not. The Jobbik will, of course, support all such initiatives on this occasion, as always. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-03-16-218	I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, on behalf of the LMP.
u2015-03-16-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are smiling here at the number eight, that András Schiffer has tried for the eighth time to pass the law that would be the basis for Hungary to move on, but it is actually a scandal, and the scandal is already the Fidesz-KDNP. I'm actually just surprised that you're still standing, even though you're going against your own promises, your own voters, the whole ideology you have, all the promises you've made. We are not able to stress enough - and many have agreed with this in terms of words - that every citizen has the right to know the past. This is where the story begins that it doesn't matter how it happens. The procedure of the screening judges drowned in dog comedy proves precisely that the government's appearance solution to the establishment of the National Remembrance Committee is useless if the activities and findings of this committee cannot be verified by the public. The real information compensation for society can only be one thing if the law gives everyone access to the files. Our bill serves this purpose. This is a bill that already understands a lot of amendments. I think this is already one of the most developed legislative proposals in the history of Parliament, all comments and criticisms have been incorporated by András Schiffer, and this has been developed by the LMP. Ladies and gentlemen, Count on it before you press a button tomorrow, that we wasted 25 years by failing the due diligence as such in Hungary. A society deprived of the freedom of regime change can no longer be compensated. But at least think of future generations. At least think that we owe it to future generations to solve this issue once and for all. Let this Parliament be the one to solve this. And there's something else. Do you know what they say to the voters, the Hungarian citizens, in case they press a "no" button? They have basically one thing to say, and it should be well engraved on the paper, with which they write the voting attitude: only those who have nothing to hide. Anyone who abstains or votes no has something to hide. Well, think about it.
u2015-03-16-220	I give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky.
u2015-03-16-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fact that today's opposition is not aware of the events of Parliament over the last 25 years is also worth a mass. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Because we weren't here.]] I'm sorry, no doubt, but just because you weren't here doesn't mean you have to keep looking at the questions. The issue that has been being discussed - not for the first time, for years - has been a problem in the Hungarian Parliament for 25 years. I must say, in the first four years, seven or eight legislative proposals went through, from Zétényi-Takács to everything, until in 94 the outgoing parliament accepted this screening at the last minute, and at the time Minister Balázs Horváth named the screening judges as the Minister of Interior. I showed up in front of the screening judges. The whole file, everything about me was put out in front of me. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Excuse me? My apologies, I listened to Congressman Schiffer, it was a mistake, and I've already realized that, but I respectfully ask you to allow me to ask you to hear me out. It was the decision in the due diligence, and then the Parliament was able to agree with two thirds that everyone involved should be made public if they were recruited or reported. These were the two criteria. I would like to say that many of our fellow Members have failed because of this. It's not true that the public would have been lenient... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can't finish it. So there's simply no reason for us to start one of these again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP. Intercoms.]]
u2015-03-16-222	I now give the floor to the rapporteur, Congressman Schiffer András. Well, I'll ask him if anyone on the Fidesz fact wishes to comment. [[There's no candidate. Dr. András Schiffer: Silence is gold!]] There's no such thing. Then you have the floor, representative.
u2015-03-16-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I apologize to my fellow Member Rubovszky for stopping him. But I think it's out of the bag. You don't want any publicity at all, you don't want any dissatisfaction. They think they got away with this story with the shameful pact they made during the first parliament in connection with the due diligence law. That's what I'm talking about, Mr Rubovszky. Because what was this screening story about, which is one of the shames of the Hungarian regime change? It was about the III/III files being pulled. Did anyone pull the III/I, IV and other files? Not to mention, this was the kind of thing you'd call, so what? You know exactly what I'm talking about: when Gyula Horn received the file as Prime Minister that he was reading a report, the response was that he was "so what?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. This is about a nice symbol of what the system-shifting elite thought about this whole story. This is different. My colleague, the problem is not solved, the other files have not been investigated. No one has acted in Moscow in order to get to know the KGB-NKVD documents with Hungarian relevance. In the Committee on Justice, it was also out of place when our fellow Member from Buda, who had several witnesses, responded to the story by, for example, military recruitment. And he even threatened to make it easier for you to deal with these things. Now, that's Fidesz's opinion, so don't press the Fidesz fraction now! Dear Parliament, And with regard to the Simicska case, I just want to say that I'm not interested in how former comrades and business partners slander each other. What interests me is that, for example, the claim that Lajos Simicska was a party banker and Fidesz activist says that his file is missing is true or not true. We're not going to find out on the basis of current legislation. We want publicity so that we can look into things like this. And I would like to say that it is not just about exploring the past, it is about exploring the present. We want to know who and how they became beneficiaries of the regime change. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-224	Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The second line follows. Consolidated debate on the proposal on the Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi. Semjén Zsolt, Imre Vejkey, Sándor Lezsák, Ildikó Bene and Mónika Dunai have a separate motion H/3033. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that there is a total of 15 minutes available for opening and closing, according to the regulations adopted. A total of 15-15 minutes for the political groups to speak, and 5 minutes for the independent Members to speak. Therefore, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-16-225	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We, the authors of the II. H/3033 on the Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi. The Hungarian Parliament intends to make 27 March a Memorial Day of the Grand Prince. We consider it important that the National Assembly remembers II. About Ferenc Rákóczi, and pay tribute to those sworn under the flag of Cum Deo pro Patria et Libertate, who fought to win Hungarian freedom, and support and promote the organisation of commemorations, the production of educational materials related to the freedom struggle led by the great head of the country. [[18.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The slogan written on the flag of Ferenc Rákóczi, which here in Parliament's Dome Hall, next to the Holy Crown, and in front of us, is engraved on the granite foundation of the horse statue in the national square: Cum Deo pro Patria et Libertate, that is to say, with God for his country and freedom, means that our great headship for more than 300 years has also announced freedom, not only for the Hungarians but also for all ethnic citizens of Hungary, under the flag of both the poor and the rich. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And what does that sentence mean today? In other words, at a time when Hungary is once again fighting for freedom, when many people think that only by favouring world politics will it be decided that Central Europe and its Hungarians will be free again. Europe's political map is easy to redefine at a large scale, but actually to make the necessary changes, well, that requires a national vision, individual courage and, above all, faith. It is like that for the peoples of the world who love freedom II. Ferenc Rákóczi's freedom fight, which for decades was the only beacon in the dark Arctic night of absolutism. Today, Hungary is once again the only beacon in the night of Europe. Therefore, we Christian democrats consider it important to remember worthyly. Ferenc Rákóczi, the person who lit the fire of the country in our hearts in a prominent cradle of European peoples and culture, the Carpathian Basin. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, our successful future also stands or falls on whether we respect our precious past and those who represent it properly, that is, do they have memorial days when we remember their actions, and we thank them for making our history this way. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The historical significance of Ferenc Rákóczi Memorial Day is evident in the fact that on 27 March each year we can remember our predecessor and his fellow Kurucs. This commemoration strengthens us in bringing our best traditions to life, and we continue to represent them. It strengthens all of us to appreciate what we must do in the most hopeless situation, as heirs of glorious ancestors, on the stage of history, with God for his country and freedom - cum Deo pro Patria et Libertate! Thank you very much for your attention. Please support the proposal for a parliamentary decision, which is set out in Annex II. It's about Ferenc Rákóczi's memorial day. Thank you.
u2015-03-16-226	Welcome. We'll get back to work. Firstly, I note that at the end of the debate, the rapporteur will have a little more than 10 minutes. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are 15-15 minutes for the factions and 5 minutes for the independent Members. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a five-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In our presentation we propose that we ask your support, honourable Members, to declare the day of the birth of the prince, 27 March, with a common will and in accord with the day of the birth of the prince II. To commemorate Ferenc Rákóczi, let us all bow our heads and pay tribute to the memory of those sworn to the freedom of the Hungarians under the prince and his flag. We consider it important to actively support the creation, renovation, organization of events, educational, local historical and educational materials, which are part of the II. They relate to Ferenc Rákóczi's freedom fight. Each settlement can be proud and proud of its history, its famous or even ordinary heroes, their glorious deeds, their lasting spiritual or physical creations. That's how we are in my constituency, in Rákosmen. We're proud of our history in Árpád. We are proud of our ancestors in Rákóczi and 1848 freedom fights, our 1956 heroes and every cancer mint who has done something for the other man in the past or today, doing something for his environment, doing something for the protection of our values. We are proud of the fact that a small group of Huns who survived the era of great migrations, according to oral tradition, lay in the territory of today's Rákoscsaba, and the place was named Rákoscsaba after the son of Attila Hun, the son of King Csaba. This supposed or real connection is preserved in our district by the names of many streets and squares. The name of the settlement appears for the first time in the founding letter of the 100th Abbey in 1067 as Csabarakosa. Ladies and gentlemen, We are also proud that we had an Árpád-era church, the semicircle of which was discovered in 1904 when the new Reformed Church was rebuilt. We have the same pride, ladies and gentlemen, that the people of Craboscsaba took part in the Rákóczi freedom fight with the prince. And the fact that he was camped here was also true. Ferenc Rákóczi between 4-6 July 1705, following his famous speech in Gyömró. Shortly before, on 1 July, the prince announced the parliamentary assembly that was held at the Vejúpáston near Szécsény, to the place of the traditional Rákosmező Parliaments. The memory of Csabai Rákóczi's stay is also announced by the bronze relief marble tablet placed on the wall of the church hall of the aforementioned Reformed Church, which is the work of the local statue artist Mecseki Harghita of Rákoscsaba. On the semicircular stone plaque above II. The relief of Ferenc Rákóczi's breast image can be seen, engraved in stone below. Ferenc Rákóczi 1676-1735, and a quote from him: "I know, Lord, I owe you everything. The board was set up in 2010 and is cared for by the Reformed parish of Rákoscsaba. Of course, this plaque is not the only thing keeping the prince's memory. Let's all carry it in our shared consciousness as part of our souls. It is our duty to keep it, to pass it on to our children, and it is our duty. Rákoscsaba with almost 950 years of history was the only way to survive from Árpád to today. Grandparents passed on the memories of their ancestors, parents taught their children good, the idea of freedom, integrity and the honor of hard work, who later grew up ready to do so at all times and in all historical times, including the Rákóczi Freedom Fight. Not only talk, it is easy - to do for their settlement and their country. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us all bow our heads and pay tribute to the memory of those sworn to the freedom of the Hungarians under the prince and his flag. Not only in words, but also actively support the creation of memorial sites, their renovation, the organisation of various events, the publication of educational, local history publications and educational material! [[18.10]] Dear fellow Members, This is the objective that the parliamentary resolution we have presented seeks to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support our proposal and make it 27 March II. The Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-228	I, too, thank the congresswoman. Congressman László Kiss is the leading speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2015-03-16-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, on 27 March 1676 he was born in Borsi Castle II. Ferenc Rákóczi, and the presenters wish to celebrate the anniversary by setting a memorial day. I am, by the way, fundamentally pleased to see proposals before this House which wish to remember our common historical past and our shared memories with dignity, and I believe that this is such a proposal. The MSZP supports this, I support it myself. Speaking of which, let me have a few thoughts. Although my constituency certainly looks back on a two thousand-year-old past - Óbuda, Békásmegyer - but I assure everyone that I will not refer to these two thousand years, because perhaps it would be a little too late. But when you're dealing with history, I'm a historian myself, you know the past, and you're not afraid to use it. However, it is important to talk about the fact that there is also a direction to this proposal, which I think would also be very useful in everyday life: whether there is a Rákóczi picture in schools or whether there is a Rákóczi picture at all. It can be said that since the change in the framework curriculum regulations, let us say, in modern Hungarian history or in the history of modern Hungarian education, children have never learned so little about Ferenc Rákóczi as it is now in the textbooks. For example, what my colleague Mónika Dunai said was that the Szécsényi Parliament, which does not appear in the number of years or as a concept to this day, either in high school or in the framework curriculum requirements of vocational school, and not to mention vocational school, where history is now called social knowledge. He says a lot about this debate, that at the meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion, we had a little bit ahead of the debate on the proposal, and my better fellow Member raised the textbook on public knowledge at the vocational school - because there are no separate textbooks in the subject - and it was possible to quote from it how much this textbook deals with history, in particular, with Ferenc Rákóczi. I leave it to everyone's imagination that the 260 or 280 pages of public knowledge textbook - which, I repeat, is not the subject textbook we are talking about, but all the subjects in it - can discuss this subject at what depth. But I have to say that when I started teaching myself in 2002, there was significantly more information about the Rákóczi Liberty Fight in the history book at that time, which was shockingly, interestingly, what I had learned about history in my own time, the Walter Mary History Book, than when I finished teaching a few years ago, how much was it about Ferenc Rákóczi and his activities? It can be said that the information contained in these textbooks has been reduced by about half. I understand that it needs to be changed, that the history textbook has to be adapted to the needs of the modern age, and there is no problem with that, because all educational governments do this anyway, but it is certainly interesting that if we significantly reduce an information material, such as the specifics of the Rákóczi Freedom Fight, we have a responsibility for how much the future generation will know about these things. That is why I, too, am in line with what the congresswoman said that we should do not only with words but also with actions for this purpose. So, for example, let us look at how children have never learned so little about Ferenc Rákóczi and the fight for freedom as they do now in today's Hungarian history education. Why is it that the master plan and the textbooks had to be changed like this? It would also be worth turning over the number of times in the last few years that some aspects, concepts, and years of the Rákóczi Freedom Fight were among the mid-level or higher-level graduation items. So, while, of course, we can bring such a proposal here, and of course, I can support it with a good heart, while, as a former practicing history teacher, I saw that by far this was not the reality you were talking about. The reality was that, in recent times, this freedom fight has been a little embezzled, even though we could use creative tools. I remember when, unfortunately, before 2010, I didn't tell you when, at that time, the Ministry of Education had a game, a computer game, first about the revolution and freedom fight of 48-49, then the Rákóczi Freedom Fight; I note in parentheses, also about the American Revolution of Independence. This computer game had a significant novum, that it was not possible to play it by clicking on the individual generals, it would not have received very, very deep knowledge of who the leaders of the war of freedom were, what was related to their names. But even more than that, a game serves children's learning, practically a historical repository, an index was also available to those who had an interest in dealing with it. I do not think that it is absolutely necessary to copy this past now, but this example also shows what initiatives may be able to achieve even this objective, which has been set by the authors. In fact, I believe that these commemorative days are worth something, and the Congresswoman rightly said that if we can fill this with substance; if the government really wants to fill it with substance; if the government really has an intention to incorporate the historical assessment of Ferenc Rákóczi and his freedom struggle into a common memory policy that the nation's community can confess to. This can be successful if we do not put this day of memory as a target of daily political struggles, but perhaps many have already expressed as criticism that it would be useful to invite people from other factions who might undertake this kind of common memory policy. Because it would also be better for this proposal and other memorable political proposals to succeed if there could be a moment in this House, which has been rarely seen since the regime change, that all factions together not only support, but even draw up a proposal. I don't think that's the point now, because it's obvious that it's not. This is already the second memorable political proposal, which I supported here in the House, and supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party, despite the fact that we have already said it there, and we have already said, as a criticism, that we would like the memory policy moments that everyone in this House, in this democracy, to come here as a joint proposal. This is not the case now, but yet again we can support this, in the hope that this situation will change. We consider it very important that these national minimums, the national historical minimums that the community of Hungarians is united in, can be united in this House. We do not wish to be a wheelbender in any way, but at the same time I express the Hungarian Socialist Party's wish that the proposals on the subject of memory policy should at least strive at the national level to address and represent all the members of the House, the Hungarian community as a whole. Of course, if a faction says no to such a claim, it is also a message to the authors that it does not wish to participate in this common memory policy, and it is obvious that it should be said why it should be rejected. Unfortunately, however, they did not necessarily reach the request. [[18.20]] I think it would be very good if this proposal for a resolution could be implemented. It would be very good if my experience in public education, let's say, changed. It would be very good if the author's intention were not to be ticked off, and my fellow Members were to make everyday Rákóczi a commemorative year, to have programs in everyday life, to be school celebrations, and not to think of the Rákóczi freedom fight as not yet in the box, not as parentheses, or even as the case may be, if we turn to the history book. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-16-230	Thank you very much. I will ask the KDNP Group if it wishes to speak now, since Mr Vejkey is a member of the KDNP and spoke as a national. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: At the end.]] No, it's fine. Then, by the way, you can end up having a word. In that case, Congressman Gergely Farkas, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When we have a presentation of such a nature, one might say that we have a political debate before us, then we might think that we can have a solemn atmosphere and really find a common voice in how many things we have in our past, which we can all be proud of, and what we can set as an example for the new generation or for today's Hungarian society. But instead of this solemnity, I am also disappointed, and as we have heard from the previous speaker, this is the case from other factions. Our opinion is that, despite the good aim, despite this initiative, it is still an unthinkable proposal, which, unfortunately, seems in many cases even to be zero in order to achieve what you want, and I think we want it to be. What shows that this is an unthinkable proposal? It's nothing more than the process of today's trial. We know very well that you had to initiate a derogation from a house rule at all in order to be able to accept this in time, because the proposal was submitted late, they asked for this proposal late, so it was also necessary to support the opposition factions in order to be able to accept it at all before the date set by you, and we can accept this proposal. This is one of the things that is a good example of the lack of thought and the lack of proper drafting of this proposal. However, as an example, they wanted to limit the time frame to the factions for a total of five minutes, so that we could say so much. If this had happened, and it had not been tripled on Jobbik's proposal, then, for example, Mónika Dunai, otherwise we would not have been able to listen to the very interesting historical reflection of the cancer palace or cancer estates, but fortunately, thanks to Jobbik's initiative, this was also heard in this debate today. I must also say, for the sake of historical loyalty, that some of you may know here, too, if you have already dealt with this issue, that four years ago, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, my colleague Zsolt Baráth and I presented a proposal entitled Memorial Day of the Rákóczi War of Liberty, the celebration of which and the celebration of the 2013 II. We initiated a proposal for a resolution on 3 May 2011 to commemorate Ferenc Rákóczi and the Rákóczi Freedom Fight. I think, as you have said, Ferenc Rákóczi must not be expropriated. This was not our intention either, and I am not bringing up this previous proposal because I regret that your proposal will, in the end, be clearly accepted, but I dare to bring this up because we also feel objectively that this was a more complete, more elaborate, more thoughtful proposal. Why are we saying that? One of the main differences between the two proposals is that you, together with Mr II. They would like to commemorate Ferenc Rákóczi, but we believe that a larger circle should be defined here as a goal, and that the Memorial Day should not only be named after the ruling prince, but also from the entire Rákóczi freedom fight. In this case, Annex II is replaced by the following: Ferenc Rákóczi is included, it is inevitably included, since this eight-year-old freedom fight is fully linked. At the same time, we would extend the scope of commemoration of this day to those who took part and did sacrifice for Hungary, so that Hungary would be independent, and it would be worthy to be remembered on this day as well. So our proposal wanted to commemorate a much larger circle, not narrowing it down. To Ferenc Rákóczi, and I think that, knowing all our goals, this would have been a more realistic, a better proposal. I also have to say, and it is part of the truth that you voted against this proposal on a series of occasions four years ago, because we have managed to get to the point that the series of articles has taken place, but at the same time, when we wanted to put it on the agenda, you voted down this proposal quite exactly six times, so that four years later, in a slightly modified, narrow form, it will be brought to the House. We are not entirely agreed with the date. This is II. The day of Ferenc Rákóczi's birth, 27 March, was proposed in terms of commemorative day. At the same time, we believe that the fight for freedom is important here, so we would like to declare the day of 6 May, the date of the publication of the Brezna manifesto, a memorial day. If we look at educational institutions, which is an important aspect for commemorative days, this is still a school year, and once again, this would create the opportunity to commemorate a larger circle. It is also important to draw attention to the commemorations, as László Kiss mentioned, that if the Parliament alone takes a decision on such a new day of remembrance every six months, then it can be said that after a while these memorial days will lose their significance and we will not achieve the goal that we want to achieve in itself. There is a great deal of emphasis on it, and I do not think that you have enough emphasis on how to remember these Memorial Days. As one of the youngest Members of this House, I can still say that I have recent experiences of similar commemorations in high school, and I remember the times when youth could not be tied down by the manner in which these institutions tried to organize, the recitation of poems, a festive speech, or some of these traditional methods of commemoration. Indeed, there should be an effort to be made, and I would also like to draw attention to this in the debate on this day of remembrance, to launch a central initiative to help public education institutions, in what way, using modern tools, to make these commemorations interesting, which really arouses young people's interest, engages them, uses the technological and all other possibilities of the age. We have seen very good examples of this, when, for example, the Battle of Mohács was presented not only on paper how this battle took place, but with an animation they were able to make it so lifelike that it became so noticeable that it was seen by someone who was not interested in history at all. Such methods should be included in the curriculum, making centrally recommendations to the institutions, and I believe that there is much greater efficiency in achieving that on these commemorative days, we can really draw the attention of students to these important people, to these important events and to all the values we would like to convey to them, to patriotism, to sacrifice, to keep the interests of the community in mind. So I think we can draw more attention to these values. I have made several criticisms of the proposal, but I do not want to finish this speech in this tone. May I therefore allow Mr II. I would like to bring a quote from Ferenc Rákóczi, which I can offer to all of you with a good heart, because I think that about patriotism and the desire for freedom was very nicely expressed by the controlling prince: The purpose of all my actions was only the love of freedom, and the desire to free my country from my alien journey. It was not the desire for revenge that led me to do this, nor to obtain a crown or principality, nor to govern; it was only the vain glory that led me to fulfill my duty to my country - and the secular honor, the source of which was natural generosity, that worked in me. In this spirit, I would like to finish my speech and, despite all these criticisms, the Jobbik Group will support this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-16-232	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the LMP, and Congressman Ikotity will then give his speech as lead speaker. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-233	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Hungary regained its independence from the Turkish occupation of the 18th century. In the beginning of the century, he showed that he didn't want to be a liberator from the Habsburg yoke, but he acted like a oppressor. [[18.30]] During the eight years of the Rákóczi Freedom Fight, the Hungarians have shown that they do not tolerate the loss of their rights for centuries, and they do not stand by and watch the construction of the imperial and unscrupulous new clientship. The fight for freedom has failed, but it still shines like a torch for everyone who knows that freedom and national independence are an inseparable pair for the nation's prosperity. But Rákóczi's example is not only important to us. There's more to it than the sequences of the Captain of Tenkes, the heroic kuruc romance. The Rákóczi Freedom Fight is much more than that: the first driving of the idea of public burdens in Hungarian public life, if you will, in Hungarian politics. In 1707, the National Assembly of Ónod said that everyone, the nobles, the landlords, must also do their part in taxation. It is a thought that could be considered by modern-day landlords and current oligarchs. The principle of public burdens is something that Prince Ferenc Rákóczi knew more about 300 years ago than the Orbán government and Fidesz did today. It must not be a coincidence that the reasons for this document before this House are missing in its entirety. We LMPs, of course, support this initiative, but everyone should know that we do not only remember the great warrior of freedom and independence in our controlling prince. It is an important, valid memory of the few years we have given Rákóczi that the rich, the powerful, must also play their part in taxation and public burdens. I really hope that you will be reminded of this at least once a year on Rákóczi Memorial Day. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-03-16-234	Thank you very much. As an independent Member has not applied, two-minute speeches would now be possible. [[No signal.]] No one has applied for that either, so I would like to address Mr László Salacz first among the speeches requesting the normal word, Fidesz.
u2015-03-16-235	Mr President, I would like to present the majority opinion, the majority opinion of the TAB, which is why I asked for the floor.
u2015-03-16-236	Honourable Congressman, Well, I'm happy; then give me the majority opinion. Stand up, tell us, and we'll listen.
u2015-03-16-237	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that today the Legislative Committee discussed H/3033. II. The proposal for a decision on the Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi was submitted by the committee with 27 votes in favour, a unanimous summary report and a summary amendment. The summary amendment also contains the legislative committee's own motion, which is partly codificational clarification, and on the other hand, the linguistic position of our fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, on the other hand, I ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-16-238	Thank you very much, especially for giving us a unanimous opinion. So I can now pass on the floor to Congressman Savay among those who have asked for the normal word. István Szávay, Jobbik, please.
u2015-03-16-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say to Mr Kiss - who has protested for a relatively long time that the authors have not consulted opposition representatives or sought to have a real consensus behind this proposal - Mr Kiss, it is the case that the rapporteur has not only not agreed with the opposition, but also with his own fractions. It is neither my job nor my right to advise you in any way, my dear Member, dear Member, but if you have put such a proposal before this House, you may have been able to involve those fellow Members who, in the past decades, have done quite a lot in caring for Rákóczi's memory, either as a Member or as a former mayor, but that should be your job and your problem. My fellow Member, Gergely Farkas, said quite highly on this issue, I do not know; he is the good policeman, I am the bad man. I, on the one hand, consider this whole attitude to be pathetic and, on the other hand, impertinent, and this whole artificial myth production, which, by the way, has been going on for years from the Fidesz fraction. Congressman Vejkey, if you take this proposal in your name, you must be honest enough to answer a question you have not answered at the meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion, and I do not think you will, by the way, not be able to say that the proposal for a resolution that the Jobbik faction has submitted earlier, why you personally voted it down six times. In this House, you voted down six times to put the Rákóczi Memorial Year on the agenda. Not to accept a proposal as it is, in any case, but to discuss it, to which it is possible to make an amendment, it is possible to make an opinion and comment on the matter. You voted for this six times. Mr. Congressman, you, for whom Rákóczi's memory is so important, voted down on two occasions my proposal for a budgetary amendment to be supported by the Hungarian Government and to finance the renovation of Prince Ferenc Rákóczi's house of parents, the Castle of Bors. In recent years, I have brought this into the budget every year during the budget debate, given that the Castle of Bors does not need a little renovation. This matter has now been resolved, because the Slovak State has joined this story with some, but the problem has been quite great in previous years, and I have not come here by accident every year with a proposal to amend the budget. You've personally voted against this on two occasions, by the way. What concerns the concrete proposal or the text of this, to which my fellow Member Farkas said that he was inconsiderate, I can only confirm this with the fact that he is not lucky that from the history of Hungary - no matter how great a person Ferenc Rákóczi was - we are still highlighting his person and not the event related to his name. This would have been much luckier, and then we wouldn't have had to meet such a stupid sentence as the one in the presentation: in one paragraph we commemorate Ferenc Rákóczi and in the other we pay tribute to the memory of those who fought under his battalion. Are we not paying tribute to the memory of Ferenc Rákóczi, Congressman, but to the memory of those who fight under the battalion? We have tabled an amendment, and my fellow Member and I propose this commitment to extend the noble wording of taxation with respect to the prince himself. So, here's the thing, Mr honourable Member, honourable Member... I was delighted to hear the talk about your constituency. I suggest you do more reception hours, meet with the citizens there, and deal with their problems, and perhaps you will appreciate that more than if we can hear a local history lecture in the Parliament on an unrelated proposal. So the thing is, Congresswoman and Congressman, is that - let me not go along with taking the good intentions of the proposal now, because I do not dispute the good intentions on your part, but we see only the practical implementation of this as being rather problematic and somewhat hypocritical. But once you come here with such a proposal, on the one hand, please be kind - if you are talking about one side - to think about this in grammatical terms and in terms of coherence. Consider, please, whether this wording is the most appropriate, let us say that it later determines what tasks should be imposed on those who organise memorials. Every year, you receive a number of proposals on your part, the last paragraph of which requires that you now state that: "The Parliament urges the organisation of commemorations and the preparation of educational materials. The truth is that each of these proposals is in a different way, so even within a faction you do not have a single position on the fact that if Fidesz and KDNP come before the House with some kind of memory policy proposal, or suggest the introduction of a memorial day - whether it is about those displaced from the Highlands, the Gulag, or anyone else - then at least with a single text, these proposals should be presented to the House at least on how these commemorative days look, to whom, by what, how to remember, what the Parliament supports. We can read about educational materials and visual aids elsewhere, and in other cases, scientific research, scientific events and conferences are also included in these proposals. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That didn't happen here either. We ask that our amendments to this be considered if they have not been able to support our original proposal in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-240	Congressman László Kiss, MSZP! [[18.40]]
u2015-03-16-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to move on this line, pretty much. In order not to talk in the air, I looked at exactly how many pages, where and how the current 10th history book is. I would like to point out that Lesson 19 deals with this case on 5 pages, so this shows that 5 pages are currently what we are talking about in the 10th History Book. I used to be a major in vocational school, and my students aren't so lucky that they can't deal with this, but they usually can't deal with history because they don't have that kind of subject. In principle, the very good question, of course, is that the presentation has a well-meaning direction, I think that is without doubt, but of course, it is also possible to give tasks to schools and to all public education actors without providing any resources or opportunities for the tasks. The requirement to celebrate the number of commemorative days in school is obviously nothing; it would be very good to see it, and there would be such an intention on the part of the education government to fill this with real content, but also a memory that is the gem of our other historical past, and in this there can be countless ideas. So I am not saying that it is absolutely necessary to amend the framework curriculum regulation and to rewrite the history books - although this would not be a problem in any other matter - but to take other initiatives: to announce historic competitions on the part of the government, to create real resources, or to give schools the task of not only celebrating something, but also helping teachers. So there may be a number of solutions on this issue, and those who are pushing for it clearly see that in many cases we have the feeling, with these memorable political proposals, that our shared past is, of course, nicely recalled, and we agree about that, but in fact, there is nothing in the world that is happening that this worthy celebration or a worthy exploration of our historical past, memory, collective memory is also done in this matter. This is also a problem, because the superficial observer may believe that this in itself, that Parliament accepts this proposal, has made progress on this issue, although that is not the case, and everyone is saying that it would be very good to really move forward on this issue, for example, but it must be followed by action, and I am very much in agreement with those who put it that way. It must be followed by action, because, of course, in itself, anything can be asked of anyone, whatever the good intentions of the National Assembly may be asked to celebrate, I certainly do not dispute the good intentions of the authors, they themselves may think that they have written these beautiful thoughts, and then this in itself becomes a reality. However, I fear that if everything goes as it has been before, then the paper can carry a lot of things, and nothing really happens. That is why I propose to both the honourable government and the authors that, if this proposal for a resolution is actually implemented, Parliament will accept this, then - in the wrong word - let us look to the government and see what is happening on this issue. I propose to the authors that they ask each year how the Rákóczi Memorial Year will turn out, what projects, what initiatives the government has taken to ensure that this proposal for a resolution really applies. We can be successful if, after years, a lot of these answers come together, and the current government will be able to say that, indeed, progress has been made, but by actually accepting empty phrases, nothing will change in itself. And finally, it is indeed difficult to imagine, from the hundreds of years to come, that behind certain freedom struggles, some historical events, the real person, the sentimental people, the average Hungarian, who was bleeding in this war of freedom, took on these goals, and it would certainly be useful, and it is true for my fellow Member Savay to point out in this proposal that the fight of freedom was not only fought by the ruling prince alone, but also by many Hungarians and by many inhabitants of this country, and they are also behind history, there is not just one person there. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-242	Thank you very much. I ask you, honourable Members and Members, if anyone wishes to speak. My question was also correct because it gave Secretary Hoppál time to press the button. You have the opportunity to speak.
u2015-03-16-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that it points out the justification of the proposal, that, although a little different from the point of view and temperature, every faction considers it justified to have such a memorial day. If we only warn you that the events of Hungarian history are somewhere in the 19th century. In the 20th century we began celebrating and keeping an important account of the Reform Age, and then, as a result, in the midst of very special appearances, 170 years after the death of Rákóczi, we know how the Rákóczi-dallamkör was re-buried in the Košice dome, and we also saw the traces of the Hungarian culture that had become complete in the century after the death of the prince, and we know how the Rákóczi-dallamkör was introduced into the universal music history through Hector Berlioz's Rákóczi-running, so this is the idea of freedom, a cultural identity linked to Rákóczi, with which we were identified, Hungarians for centuries. So I think that the Parliament is fulfilling an old duty by creating such a memorial day, and we, who, either as laymen, as head of family, or as a commitment to our settlement, or as a teacher, as a Member of Parliament, who, in their place, would go to places that are important for the Rákóczi cult - obviously, perhaps the castle of Munkács can be highlighted here above all, or Sárospatak, or even the castle of Regéc, which, of course, the post-Satmar peace Habsburg Highness thought was better to blow up, eliminate, wipe out from the surface of the earth, so that the Kurucs will not rise up again against the Labancs, or make such a thought in their minds. So many, many intense memories and experiences are linked to the Rákóczi cult and the Kuruc consciousness. If we can now collect these into a bouquet and stand on the pedestal, which, I repeat, has positioned the Hungarian identity at international level in the last two centuries, and we can contribute to this by transforming the birthday into a memorial day, I think that the Parliament is paying off a debt. In this sense, the Ministry of Human Resources has given good heart to the proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-244	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. I remind Congressman Vejkey that you have 10 minutes and 8 seconds. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-245	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Allow me to briefly summarise our position and answer the questions you have asked. Zoltán Lomnici, President of the Council of Human Dignity, approached us on the road of the citizens of the Highlands on the Advent of 2014 by wanting such a memorial day, such a presentation to take place in the Hungarian Parliament, and II. May the great head of Ferenc Rákóczi have a memorial day. So this was not an initiative for self-interest, as has just been said here, but it was the historical basis. The second, as a criticism, is that public burdens are not included in this parliamentary resolution. In my view, public burdens are not in place here, but others are not in parliamentary resolutions, but in laws, they are in fact in fact in the centre of Fidesz-KDNP's policy, when they have made public burdens general by extending them to banks and multinational companies. The third objection was that education leaves much to be desired as to what students know. Ferenc Rákóczi and his freedom fight. [[18.50]] The problem is, indeed, that they do not know enough in our view, which is why I hope that this parliamentary resolution proposal, if it is adopted by Parliament, will help them to know and deal with it as much as possible. Allow me to say the voice of thanks. I thank the parliamentary factions for making it clear by their contributions that they support the II. H/3033 on the Memorial Day of Ferenc Rákóczi. Parliamentary motion No. 1. Please support him again tomorrow during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-246	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the completion of the consolidated debate, we heard the rapporteur's reply. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. A separate motion by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/3871. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that a total of 10 minutes, 5 minutes for the government's speech, 5 minutes for the group's speeches, 3 minutes for the speech of the independent Members, are available for the opening speech and the closing speech, according to the House Rules adopted. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, rapporteur of the committee on nationality, who wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. However, before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 10 minutes to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-247	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I welcome you and, above all, I would like to thank you for the 2011 CXCV on public finances. T/3871. During the negotiation and decision-making of our bill, we have been able to derogate from the regulations of the resolution, thereby discussing our own motion and, as we hope, adopting it. In the last two months of last year, we have, in our understanding, focused primarily on the well-founded preparation and adoption of the national aspects of the 2015 Central Budget Act, which we consider to have been successful. In addition, in the so-called salad law accompanying the budget law, we were overlooked by the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law No. 10. Paragraph 4a is amended according to which the tasks of the economic organisation, if the average annual statistical staff of the budgetary body is less than 100 persons, are performed by the managing body, by the local government office or by another budgetary body having an economic organisation under the control of the managing body, on the basis of the decision of the managing body. The referenced paragraph would apply from 1 April 2015. The aim of our current amendment is to ensure that the office of national minority self-governments, as well as the budgetary bodies established by the national minority self-government, can retain their economic autonomy in order to exercise their fundamental rights, and therefore we propose that the office of the national minority self-government, as well as the national government budgetary body, may have an economic organisation even if its average annual statistical staff does not reach 100. For 20 years, the municipalities of nationalities living in Hungary have been struggling to ensure the basic conditions of national cultural autonomy, in which one of the pillars is the acceptance and operation of the rights of the maintenance of national minority public education and cultural institutions by national minority authorities. Our efforts, especially in the last few years, have been accompanied by significant results, with an increasing number of local minority self-governments taking over and operating successfully national, public education, cultural and other institutions, in addition to national minority authorities. The redirection of the economic organisation, the take-up of economic rights, the managing body - to local authorities, KLIK and others - would restore the former situation, create an unnecessary source of tension between the national authorities and the governing bodies, would fundamentally jeopardise the exercise of ethnic cultural autonomy. At the same time, this exception is only granted to national minority institutions with nationality reserved, to be precise: we ask the national self-government budgetary bodies, in the other non-national minority institutions, we accept the transfer of the tasks of the economic organisation to another budgetary body with an economic organisation. On this basis, we respectfully ask you for the 2011 CXCV on public finances. T/3871. to support and adopt our bill No. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2015-03-16-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. You have five and a half minutes to respond to what has been said in the debate. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, please.
u2015-03-16-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At the end of last year, on a proposal from the Government, the Honourable Parliament amended the Public Finance Act in such a way that the budgetary bodies where the average number of persons is less than 100 need not have an independent management unit. The purpose of the amendment was to ensure that small-scale organisations do not have a separate economic unit in order to operate a cheaper, more efficient state, but that they are provided by the managing body or another body designated by the managing authority. I would like to stress that, at the end of last year, at the time of the debate on the amendment, the aspects that have now come to light have not been raised. Imre Ritter presented these aspects, which were considered by the government, and on this basis the amendment tabled by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is supported by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-16-250	Thank you very much. The members' speeches will follow. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are 5-5 minutes for the factions and 3 minutes for the independent Members. In the first round, there will be speaker speeches. Congressman Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of Fidesz, is the first. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-251	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment bill, originally tabled by Mr János Fuzik, Slovak national minority advocate, is the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Act 1 proposes to amend the law necessary for the specific functioning of national authorities. [[19.00]] The proposal aims to harmonise the unjustified breakdown used in respect of those entitled to establish a budgetary body, without distinguishing between the establishment of local and national national minority self-governments, also taking into account the fact that there is no otherwise different legal consequences from the point of view of the establishment. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law No. 10. The aim of the amendment to Paragraph 4a of Article 4a is to ensure that the agencies of national minority self-governments and the budgetary bodies established by the national minority self-government can retain their economic organisations from 1 April 2015 in order to exercise their fundamental rights. The amendment to the provision of the Public Finance Act provides for the possibility for national authorities to have an independent economic organisation in their management of the budgetary bodies with an average statistical staff of less than 100 persons per year. However, as a direct consequence of the Public Finance Act, the Aht. 10. However, the performance of financial management tasks with a budgetary body which does not comply with the conditions laid down therein is excluded from the scope of the law as from 1 April 2015 and therefore the obligation as such is contrary to the law and therefore all private law obligations are null and void. It is therefore justified to put the law into effect before 1 April 2015. This bill can only be implemented by adopting it away from house rules. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the justification for the legislative amendment proposal, which is also available on the Parliament's website, provides clear answers to the question of why it is necessary and why it is appropriate to amend the law on public finances as such. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask my fellow Members to support the amendment tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-252	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Salacz if he wishes to speak on behalf of the TAB. [[László Salacz: Yes.]] Then you have the floor.
u2015-03-16-253	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that today the Legislative Committee discussed T/3871. CXCV 2011 on general government. A bill amending the Act was submitted by the committee unanimously with 27 votes in favour. In view of what has been said, I ask for the support of the proposed legislation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-254	Thank you very much. General Speaker's Circle: Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2015-03-16-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, What you have said about this bill, that is the problem, that is, that in preparation there has not been a question of how, with this amendment of the law by the salad law, the national institutions would be put in a position, from 1 April now, that they should cease to exist, and the struggle that the national authorities have explained in recent years or even decades, and that they have done to have their own institutions, educational and cultural institutions, now with such a bill, which you submitted at the end of last year, would have been so to speak, unsuccessful, and that this opportunity would have ceased for national governments. So this present proposal shows that the hasty, unprepared legislation, often custom-made legislation, or the preparation of what the government is conducting, creates such situations, that it is necessary to discuss and adopt them very quickly and differently from house rules. Regardless of this, the MSZP faction supports this proposal, since it is important that the functioning of the national minority institutions be maintained, but I would also ask the Government, through the Secretary of State, to negotiate, which it is now apparent that it is not an unnecessary thing. In fact, as far as I know, when this salad law arrived at the National Assembly, ethnic advocates or local governments have already indicated that this could be a problem. So I would like to ask that we avoid in the future that institutions, municipalities, national authorities should be in such a situation. But once again, we will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-256	Thank you very much. I'll ask the other factions who haven't told me if any of the factions would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, a faction opinion? [[Sallai R. Benedict: Yes.]] You have the floor, please.
u2015-03-16-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. On my part, I can assure the Honourable Parliament of support for the speaker or the presentation, but that is not really the most important reason for my speech, but that we said about this regulation in early December that a stupid, stupid regulation makes theatres, national park directorates impossible, there are secondary schools that cannot function that way. To this day, there is a high school that expects where it will be attached, because it has no idea how it will work. There is a national park directorship with a number below it; in December we announced at a press conference that it should not remain so. There are theaters. We said these in December, we said that regulation is not good, we said that regulation is not viable, and that it will raise further problems to implement it. The government didn't react at all. Technically, the structure of this parliamentary operation works by making a silly regulation, not being thought out, not practically looking at the effects it will have, and then they begin to explain that it will become something, and just what will fall out of the closet, we will do it immediately, and Parliament will jump as the faults of those who make it happen. This is totally unacceptable. We're doing the same thing for the next two or three days, the same kind of legislation, which is thoughtless, stupid, stupidly formulated with bad codification, we're gonna discuss it, we're gonna spend the next four days here, we're gonna spend a long, late night here, and then we're gonna continue to fix it for the rest of the year. This is what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán promised after the defeat in Veszprém that it would not be like this again, now the government will be considered because it will learn from mistakes. That's what doesn't happen. Of course, we support it, of course we do not want to make it impossible to operate, but we wanted to draw attention to the need for further, additional amendments, because there are still a number of institutions in Hungary whose operation is impossible by this unthought-out regulation. We ask the representatives of the government to consider what needs to be withdrawn again this week, because there are a lot of wording and codified texts that will certainly cause problems later on. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-258	Thank you, too. Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik.
u2015-03-16-259	Thank you very much. For five years, Fidesz has been talking about or at least communicating on the importance of negotiation and national cooperation. Last time, the Prime Minister himself spoke about the need to negotiate more, and those with problems should speak. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, It would have been very easy to avoid this issue if you had sought the views of nationalities in matters relating to nationalities. This whole story would have been so simple, we shouldn't have rushed, we shouldn't have deviated from the rules, we shouldn't have dealt with this whole issue right now. Fortunately, we have at least come to the point where this distress signal was born, and you have understood it, and it seems that this issue will be properly resolved, only that could have been avoided. Let me draw your attention to another matter. I've been doing some research over the past day or two, fortunately, the neighbouring countries have not appeared in their friendly press against Hungary, news that could have appeared calmly about the difficult situation in which the institutions operating in the management of nationalities in Hungary have become impossible to operate, or cultural autonomy has been damaged. It would not have been good for us to read such articles, it would not have been good for neighbouring countries to attack Hungary by taking measures that make it difficult for national minority institutions to operate. So, I need a little attention and a little thought-out, but that's not very typical, and unfortunately, it hasn't been typical of you for the last five years. But if we already have representatives of nationalities; let us say, there have already been national governments, by the way, in the last five years you have also introduced the electoral law on nationalities or the proposal on the election of national minority self-governments without consulting the national minority self-governments, but afterwards there has been confusion and correction when there was too much protest on their part. [[19.10]] Here are the advocates, if not with the same licenses as you promised them at the time, but at least at that time they were able to draw attention to this problem relatively quickly. Let this be a lesson for the future. Of course, Jobbik will support the proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-260	Thank you very much. Congressman László Teleki, MSZP!
u2015-03-16-261	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the Hungarian Socialist Party wishes to support it, but the speakers before me have also said the problem of reconciliation that I believe to be discovered in this law, which is because it has said a very important sentence, Mr Spokesman, namely that they are trying to strengthen the maintenance of the institution of the national authorities, which is absolutely fine. However, I have already mentioned that there are municipalities and local authorities in the area of nationality that have not been transformed into a minority self-government, but there are a lot of educational institutions, such as kindergartens or schools, that are constantly problematic to maintain. Therefore, I understand that they want to resolve the maintenance of the institutional system at some level also where it is represented by a minority of less than 100 people, but it would also be important for the law to deal with the fact that even if the local government is not transformed into a local government, it is also important to ensure the maintenance of life for those institutions. In this case, there are two settlements, which I have already indicated to the speaker, that there are two Croatian settlements in Zala county where the local government maintains a kindergarten, but it is a kindergarten of nationality, because the largest number is Croatian-speaking. Therefore, their problem is that they do not receive any extra funding or funding at all, and therefore they are keeping the kindergarten closed in a short time. They've already called a crisis meeting next week. I also think that it will not help if we do not try to deal with it in the law, that not only ethnic minorities are trying to solve their institution maintenance at some level, but also those municipalities that have not transformed, but, on the contrary, take up the problem that others do not take up as local governments. As a result, I believe that there is still a conciliation process on this issue, so that we should look at, look through, in which municipalities there are municipalities that have not been transformed, and that we should also ensure that national education can take place there, because if not, then it is not certain that the national authorities can accept it because of financial deficiencies or lack of other human resources. I would therefore consider it very important for the government to address this issue in its place, because if I have to warn it more than once, I think that it really does not want to hear this question and really does not want to help the local authorities that want to help nationalities. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-262	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-03-16-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to apologize to the Secretary of State because I felt that I might have been unwarranted by my speech, because I simply forgot that Fidesz had introduced this test system, like at tolls and such. I always ask the representatives of the government to take part in the debate, and for once, I do not ask, nor do I have to respond. I admit that this could only be a test run until now, the errors will be revealed, and in this great test plant, where the Hungarian society is the test subject, the test subject, things can come up, and the test operation will solve everything. I apologize for my earlier critical speech. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-264	Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak out of the remaining fraction time frame? [[For signal:]] On behalf of the Government, Minister of State Peter Benő Banai. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I feel that I need to inform you factually at some point. Firstly, the purpose of the legislative amendment adopted at the end of last year was to avoid the obligation to maintain an autonomous management unit for small-scale budgetary bodies. I think that we can all agree with this aim, and in his speech the speaker accepted this overall objective. I therefore believe that the basic objective can be supported now, as I do not recall critical remarks in this regard at the end of last year in the parliamentary debate. The second point I would like to highlight is a clarification on the speech by Mr Tóth Bertalan. The aim of the proposal, neither the original nor the present, is to put an end to the national authorities. The original proposal was about another institution carrying out management tasks in the small number of institutions maintained by national authorities. The third thing I have to say is that although Congressman Sallai R. Benedek did not demand it, we need to see factually that three months of preparation has been left in the legislation, and beyond that, a separate law or a government decree can provide an exception to the general rule, from the rule that less than one hundred budget bodies do not have an autonomous management organisation. And finally, I think that what has been said and the position of the government is a clear response to the criticisms of whether, on the one hand, the government is serious about the funding of national governments and their institutions, or whether it is open to dialogue or not. I would remind everyone that, even in consultation with nationalities and advocates, this year's budget law contains a surplus of HUF 2 billion compared to the version contained in previous years. This is a very significant increase, behind which, I felt, there is a professional consensus. I must also say that the government was, of course, open to negotiations. This is reflected in the fact that the government, and I see that all parliamentary groups agree with this change. Finally, the government has also set the funding of normal municipalities and national authorities on a secure basis, including this year. Local governments that have been transformed from normal local government to minority self-government, or change in other directions, are financed and the rules are normally provided by the budget bill. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-266	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I see that several Members do not wish to speak. Therefore, the consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Ritter, on behalf of the national committee of nationalities in Hungary, whether he wishes to respond to what he has said on the basis of his remaining timeframe. [[On Imre Ritter's signal:]] You have the floor.
u2015-03-16-267	Thank you very much. Actually, I'd like to respond to three things. One is the lack of prior consultation. This is a paradoxical situation. If someone was here during the parliamentary debate of the salad law, then, based on my entire parliamentary experience, my entire comment was essentially about the fact that a lot of proposals and papers will be submitted to Parliament, where there will be no prior consultation with nationalities. I am saying that this is paradoxical because I wasn't thinking about the salad law, and I wasn't thinking about the 2015 central budget law, because for months we had a continuous consultation with the NGM and all the wallets, and even the day before our amendment of the law we tabled, we agreed until 10 p.m. However, another question is that this was not mentioned, we did not discuss this, there was no prior consultation on this. What I would like to thank everyone who has raised it, by the way, is that it is decisive, and Parliament's advocates do not replace prior consultation with minority self-governments. I think this is very important. The other thing is in one sentence. Of course, we agree with cheaper and more efficient operations for all institutions, and where we have the opportunity to do so, for example, in the case of institutions maintained by national governments, we have already done this in several places, as it is our fundamental interest. But this is least possible in the institutions maintained by the local minority self-government. Finally, I would like to thank you for your contributions and for the support of all the groups and speakers. Thank you very much. [[19.20]]
u2015-03-16-268	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXC on national public education follows a series of steps. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Mr László Kucsák Fideszes' own motion T/3119. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Commission report on the detailed discussion of the Committee on Culture as a designated committee T/319/3 was given to them. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[On the sign of László Kucsák:]] Congressman says it's gonna end up in the end. I'm calling your attention right now, since you didn't tell me, you've kept your 10-minute window, and you've got a chance to do that. I'm gonna ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[On Dr. Bertalan Judit's mark, Mrs. Czunyi:]] The government will speak later. Thus, as the designated committee did not set up a rapporteur, there will be speeches by its representatives within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a two-minute comment is not possible during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, One of the most significant and far-reaching changes in public education over the past period was when the State took a greater role over the maintenance and partial operation of public education institutions. At the same time, we were also aware that a good school system is also typical of the local community's role over its own institution, since the children of the citizens to whom they were assigned attend these institutions. We managed to resolve this duality by keeping the operation in the municipalities. It was necessary to draw a reasonable limit on the financial opportunities of the municipalities, so that it was the case that the municipalities that were more than 3,000 inhabitants became legal operators of the institutions, and the smaller municipalities did not, and the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre undertook them. There was nothing wrong with that, not now; the fact is that there is little time left for the change. This bill, registered by Member László Kucsák, serves, among others, the purpose of re-establishing a new mayor of a settlement after a municipal election when the local government body is re-established, and, if necessary, of revisiting the previous decision. The legislation allows sufficient flexibility in the separation of operation and maintenance, because it also allows for a provision other than the main rule. In this case, of course, it is for the municipality to decide whether, if the settlement is small, i.e. it is less than 3 thousand, if it is still willing to operate - I can say that there are many who are willing to do so - or if there are more than 3 thousand souls, it will give up its operation in return for paying some amount. So in this amendment of the law, we are talking about a reasonable, necessary improvement, an amendment, which is part of the process that the education government may call fine-tuning or making matters smoother. It is necessary, in any case, to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-270	Thank you very much. According to the house rules, the president can't make an opinion, so he gives the floor to the MSZP's congresswoman, Ágnes Kunhalmi. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-271	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! Former Secretary of State, Mrs. and Mr. Kucsak! Former Secretary of State, Rózsa Hoffmann, said that it was reasonable, necessary, and that they called for smoothness with this proposal. Please, this is unreasonable, unnecessary, and chaos is only getting bigger and worse and worse and worse. The proposal Mr. Kucsák took in his name is T/3119. This proposal, once again, is a confession of the inability of the KLIK. The chaos you've been doing over the last few years with full nationalization, centralization, over-centralization, that you're trying to sort it out, try to fix it a little, but in fact, you know best that it's simply not working, and you're ashamed to admit to yourself that it didn't work. The best example of this is that the Prime Minister himself - I have already indicated this in the general debate - has sent a Commissioner to review the Klebelsberg Centre for Institutional Support, because there is no such thing as two-thirds of the legislation behind us, we rule the entire state administration, it is not true that the right-wing half of the political elite is unable to nationalise a system and set up such an institution. Well, please, no. And the consequence is that there is no chalk, there is no bench in schools, that schools are unclaimed. They always said that we opposition representatives are alarming the players in the system, alarming the parents. No! The due diligence carried out by the Prime Minister has revealed not only these, honourable Members, but also, in particular, legal disturbances and problems, which I must say, not even I, not even we would have thought of. So this problem was caused by you, which you are now trying to address with this proposal. The CLIK has now become the main cause of problems, and embarrassing, not embarrassing, the facts are stubborn things, the consequence of which is that thousands of shortages are regular, there are thousands of malfunctions, missing chalks, missing boards, shocking lack of resources practically everywhere. There were times when teachers could not pay their wages or contributions, in many schools there were no basic conditions for teaching. There are no right-wing and left-wing press in the country today, so that they don't report every day about the malfunctions of the KLIK. The fundamental problem is that you over-centralized, very, very closed the system, which, in our opinion, is basically a conceptual mistake, because a system that size, thousands of schools, actors in the system, so many children's problems cannot be controlled from a departmental room, a Klebelsberg Institutional Center. Day-to-day tasks and problems on the ground often fail to reach decision-makers. With the too limited opportunities, the looting of the players in the system, the restriction of freedom, you have also achieved that the system is virtually inoperable from the point of view of everyone watching each other. If a problem or a particular situation has to be solved locally by the local community, the faculty and parents together, they often do not know if there is no legislation for a situation - and we know that there is no law for every situation - they cannot turn to. The way I put it - and, unfortunately, that's true, because the teachers tell me - is that the teacher looks at his principal, the principal looks at his head of the school district, the head of Klebelsberg, the secretary of state, and it waits for the minister or the prime minister to say something. And the chain closes while the problems aren't solved. You have changed the system of rights and obligations, and you do not understand - although it is obviously not fashionable in an illiberal state - that our democratic institutions, built in democratic, strong Hungary over the past 25 years, should finally be filled with real content and depth, basically the first step is to build a democratic school system. It must be allowed for local communities to decide their lives, naturally within the limits of the state. That's what the laws are for, that's what the NAT, our common knowledge canon is for, but they have to make a decision on the spot by the school's actors, the school's customers. If we cannot ensure this in Hungary, we can never expect people to make good use of their rights and obligations later. [[19.30]] If democratic functioning does not affect the Hungarian school system, it will be impossible to establish good democracy, working, healthy freedom and good democracy in Hungary over the next 25 years. Our fundamental criticism is that local residents, parents, could interfere in the school's affairs through their democratic voting rights. In better cases, a parent gave his vote to his mayor and the body of representatives so that he wouldn't just rearrange the side of the school, paint the gate or put two tujas in it, but that there would also be an IT lab if the mayor had already promised; because they knew that IT education and this whole thing would cross our lives and it would be about the future. Of course, everything didn't always work out so well everywhere. But that was the goal. And you took that away from the local communities. They took that decision and took away their opportunities to make mistakes at all. Because then they can correct their mistakes. Today, the school system operates in a rigid, closed, instructional system. The proposal Mr. Kucsák took in his name is a symptom of the chaos you've been making lately. Please stop with this. Try to make normal laws. Technically, the two flagships of nationalization, the KLIK and the Library Supply, have failed, their leaders are not in place, and the political consequences I prefer not to say out of dignity. Please do not do this with the Hungarian school system, because this system in itself is doomed to fail. You can't go back to such a system of planning that was in the Kádár system. This world is about something else. Don't think you're gonna have to do it a little better, you're gonna have to work a little harder, you're gonna have to twist it a little bit more, and it's gonna get better, it's just gonna kick in. It won't get any better. They've made a fundamental conceptual error, and unfortunately, they won't be able to correct it. We, I swear, offer you an alliance for this, with all our good intentions, say that we need to change the school system. I don't think there are any opposition parties that won't join this improvement. I trust that only your dilettantism has led us here and not their mere malice. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-272	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-273	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are talking about the deadline amendment in this bill, but in this context we have to answer a lot of questions about the cooperation between the KLIK and the municipalities. I have already visited more than a dozen educational institutions and public education institutions this year, and every week I spend one day visiting at least one public educational institution and vocational training institution in addition to the meetings with the rectors, and I also try to visit cultural institutions. On this proposal, too, I would like to tell you my experience so far, specifically in relation to this bill, for example, the municipality of Gyöngyössolymos may be involved, where I was with President Gábor Vona last week. After all, the population of the settlement has now decreased to 2999 people, so they are now being transferred to the category of less than 3,000 people, although KLIK has already operated the institution. In this sense, therefore, there is likely to be no change in this respect. For example, my experience in the city of Gyöngyös is contrary to this, which is a large settlement, but the municipality did not undertake to run the schools, but the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre also performs the management tasks. During my school visits, I managed to gain the experience of parallel realities in the education system in Hungary. When you talk to a school district director, you hear that the whole system is completely smooth, there are no chalk problems, everything was clearly regulated at the transfer-take-over, there was no disruption. For both the school and the municipality, KLIK was available all the time, and the whole reality is pink. When you talk to an institution manager, you learn about a whole different experience. They can't reach the KLIK, they can't do business that went smoothly before, now they're difficult, they don't look at the heads of institutions as partners, but they talk to them in a style that would not be allowed. If you think that this system, which was created in the previous cycle, would be perfect, or if only fine-tuning was needed, then, for example, the legislative programme planned for this session would certainly not include an amendment, which will fundamentally alter the performance of tasks within the CLIK, and will completely restructure the tasks. In fact, it would not have taken place in the previous cycle, a few years ago, under the new institutional support of the training programme assigned to the KLIK, or under the NGM. Obviously, this is a clear admission that the inclusion of vocational training in the KLIK system has failed well, that a new maintainer is needed and that new management is needed. Their previous position was therefore revised in this regard, and now they have taken a different decision because they have seen from experience, from operation that this was not a good decision. That's a confession. If you didn't think so, then obviously I wouldn't be transferring vocational training to NGM and a new institutionkeeper. In the same way, the division of tasks within the CLIK would not be changed, nor would the county centres be strengthened, which is something you can hear is being prepared for, if the current system was not inoperative and difficult to operate. It is important for a government to be able to correct itself, but it must be acknowledged that when a man has made a mistake, he must also be humble in dealing with his own work. Unexpected or previously denied difficulties have also emerged with the introduction of the KLIK, which hit teachers in charge of the textbook. For example, several people have told me that the allowance for 100 HUF/child, which is due to the teacher, has still not been received, because this is done through KLIK, KLIK has concluded a contract with the distributor, and, to this day, it has simply not been possible to get this money to the teacher himself. In previous years, this has not been the case in the previous system for such a long process. Therefore, the administration of teachers is not smooth for KLIK either, so that the municipalities can solve the various transfer-acceptance problems. The pedagogical workers may not have benefited from the new system either. One of the main legitimisation reasons of the government was that, in addition to the state reservation, income differences would be balanced, in the case of teachers, the introduction of a career model and the inclusion in the state reserve did indeed take place partially, and this should be recognised. It is also right to reduce the gap between students and teachers attending schools in different local authorities. However, the government forgot about those who helped in pedagogical work. Their numbers are extremely low in Hungary. Only one third of the average of OECD countries is the number of teachers in Hungary, which shows that they are extremely burdened or that teachers are also carrying out the task that they should normally do. On the other hand, they did not receive a wage increase either, and now their wages have not been settled in seven years, which is a very long period and would be extremely necessary. I mean, they're doing a sacrifice, and without their jobs, schools couldn't work. So please take this into account. When I asked an oral question, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári answered it, he could not yet tell me when their wages could be settled. But as teachers' wages were dealt with in a career model, wage tension was created and even more intense among school workers. So I'm asking you to take this into account. And since teachers have taken note of paying their wages, it is essential and urgent now that the wages of teachers are also paid. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-16-274	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. [[19.40]]
u2015-03-16-275	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, László Kucsák's individual representatives are now addressing the issue of the operation and maintenance of schools. There's no need or number for absolving the law on public education. The new legislation on the basis of which education is based, which is worse than before, does not work properly in the fourth year after its adoption, and the whole system is extremely uncertain. This is demonstrated by the regular amendments proposals. Because of the haste, these are not submitted by the wallet, but by individual representatives, so that they can bypass the negotiations and speed up the settlement of claims and compensation. The specific proposal would briefly standardise the obligation to make declarations on the operation of local authorities and would exceed the deadline for this. On the basis of the current school-supporting concept, municipalities with a population of more than 3 000 inhabitants are the operators of the institutions; while municipalities not exceeding 3 thousand do not ensure the operation. If they intend to do the opposite to the basic case, they can indicate it by submitting an application. The details of this submission are slightly modified with the proposal of László Kucsák. This alone would not be a problem if the final touches of a well-functioning system were made. This institutional system is partly due to a serious lack of resources and partly due to a flawed concept of maintenance and operation. Excessive centralisation removes the leeway of institutions, strangles individual initiatives, makes it impossible for them to react flexibly to the problems that arise. The complete Hungarian school system from Szalay Street cannot be controlled manually. On the issue of operation and maintenance, LMP represents an intermediate solution: we would not go back to the former extremely decentralised urban maintenance model, but we would significantly relax on cramped over-nationalisation. The LMP's intermediate solution is that instead of the central state, the role of local communities should be strengthened, and where the municipality so requests, schools should be returned to the local community. The State must, of course, provide the resources necessary to carry out the additional tasks undertaken. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-16-276	Congressman László Kiss, MSZP. Here.
u2015-03-16-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It may seem to many that there is little talk about the proposal, and this is largely because of what my fellow Member has just said, that when he wants to paint one of the boards of a shaky, crumbling fabric, we cannot leave without saying that, in fact, no matter how many brushes he puts on that tree, he will eventually collapse. This fabrication will not stand the test of time. I have to say that, as we look at the system of national public education, this proves to be granite, like our Fundamental Law. It's almost like a coat with only the stain on it, not the coat, so many times they've touched it in their hasty legislation. It's another element of this thing. If we look at what the practice of today's Hungarian public education is like, we can see that there really are double, triple and five realities, and we hear something else. A good example is that the government still does not acknowledge that the textbook system collapsed a few years ago because they did not receive such feedback. While the reality is that the software was unable to receive feedback for three days, which obviously could not arrive. Then you can sit back, check that everything's fine. But we could talk about schools where the phone was turned off, or late-paid electricity bills, which weren't the case before. The last drop in the glass is to close the house, because it's obviously cheaper to travel for 5,000 forints with a hundred-forint check than to pay for it. Well, this system is not fit to be reformed. Retract, rebuild the entire system. Thank you. [[Zoltán Pride: And you have a week to do that! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-278	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you if you still wish to speak at the expense of the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] He doesn't want to. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to speak. [[Mrs. Czunyi Dr. Judit Bertalan: Yes.]] Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am trying briefly and indeed to present the Government's position in the legislative amendment tabled by Mr Kucsák, which is fundamentally supportive, as has been said in the general debate. However, I note briefly and very quietly that it is important to make all the comments that help improve and improve the educational conditions of our children, but for many of the time now I cannot deal with a series of generally lost criticisms from the MSZP fraction based on communication panels. So thank you very much for this enriching comment. I think that my fellow Member Kucsák's bill is indeed part of a fine tuning and clarification and serves the cooperation and process between the municipalities and their maintenance. The government, once again, Mr President, supports the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-280	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, This debate is closed. I'll ask the rapporteur... [[László Kucsák says yes.]] It indicates that you wish to speak now. I'll remind you that you have ten minutes tops. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-281	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for allowing me, as in the general debate, to hear the same argument system from various formations. In this there were manifestations, Dóra Dúró's, partly of István Ikotity, which I believe were objective and, to say the least, constructive, although in other respects, to approach the whole of education. I would recommend to the attention of the Socialist Congresswoman in Kunhalm that, just as the flag is not just a stick and canvas, this thing is not as simple as you think it is. I wish you to gather more experience, and then perhaps we can consult on these matters in a meaningful way, with your complacency. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Only in a national way!]] "Maybe instead of preaching, you'll have some pointers. To get to the point, you said that this proposal that I submitted was unreasonable. I think that this proposal is not unreasonable, because I repeat once again to you, there are two moments that are important and noteworthy in my view. One is that it intends to push the deadline currently fixed on 31 March to 15 June in the case of a supported version. This is important, it is important, because the local authorities you mentioned are given more time to consider. Consider how the next five years, expected to be five years, for half a decade, approach this issue, they want to play a role as operators if we do not think in accordance with the main rule. At present, there are 120 such municipalities who have not accepted the obligation to operate. In the other case, settlements of less than 3 000 inhabitants may consider whether, although they do not have an obligation to operate, they undertake this obligation. There are currently 55 such local authorities. So the fact that we leave more time for this important decision, I think it is precisely the intention to respect and even strengthen the local government. What is related to this is, in my view, an important wish to comply with, namely, that if this information is to be provided, then the municipalities concerned should do it in full. So, in each case, if you wish to derogate from the main rule, if you do not wish to deviate from the main rule, such a provision will also be made, which will be provided with a form intended to be available to all Hungarian municipalities in order to make it a clear and binding provision, obviously in accordance with the decisions of the local body of representatives. Summa summarum I can tell you that I think - and we do not agree on this - this is not an unreasonable proposal [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: The whole concept is!]] It's positive and forward-looking. That is what this proposal is about. In addition, what has been formulated is worth talking about if this can be - how should I put it - within the framework of the debate on the subject. That's what I've seen. Thank you very much. I wish you further success in your work and I ask you to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-16-282	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.50]] Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXLII on the renewal and development of Városliget follows. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The submission is T/3400. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Commission report on the detailed discussion of the Economic Committee as designated committee T/340/2/2. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] If this is not the case, since the designated committee has not set up a rapporteur, the opposition shall follow within the time frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance, and the first of them is Mr Jenő Manninger, Mr Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-03-16-283	Mr President, The 2013 Law on the renewal and development of the City Park is amended by T/3400. Bill No. 1 that lies before us. No amendments were tabled to the proposal and therefore we are only discussing the committee's report. Basically, it contains: the proposal complies with the decision-making house rule 44. Paragraph 1 of the Act, complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, fits into the unity of the legal system, complies with international and European Union law and complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. Allow me to say so much more, because there has already been a long debate about this at the plenary session, that this bill allows and complements previous legislative proposals, because it expands the range of real estates for which Városliget Zrt. is appointed as a trustee in respect of buildings and superstructures owned by the new state in the framework of the investment. The bill also settles the procedure for the transfer to the State, which means registration with data reporting at Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. This is in line with the state's wealth of 254/2007. With the provisions of Government Decree No. 1. I would like to say so much more, to reiterate the point that this Városliget project, of which part of the museum quarter, does not reduce the green surface area of the Városliget, is also possible to increase the green surface, and will be very important in the renewal and increase of Budapest's cultural tourism, therefore it also has significant economic benefits for the whole country. Here during the long debate - I do not wish to repeat this - there was a debate on certain buildings. Obviously, you can argue about the Buildings of Parade Square, but the museum district is only a part of this entire Városliget project, which, if it is implemented, can be a significant step in the development of the bill, Budapest and the country. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-16-284	Thank you very much. We now have a statement from a representative asking for a normal word. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP. Here you go, notary.
u2015-03-16-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, All things for the people and by the people, nothing about the people and without the people. This is the dominant spirit of democracy and our time. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán quoted Lajos Kossuth yesterday. On the other hand, they want to make rules over the heads of the people again. The decision was taken out of the hands of the Zuglós, Terézvárosi, the Elisabethvárosi and the Budapest people as a whole over one of their most important areas. Despite the wishes of the City Park users, they are simply destroying the green, which is vital for the people who live here, because of their hopeful financial gain. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] According to a spring impact study by Corvinus University in 2014, which, by the way, Városliget Zrt. the opinion of the Liget users prepared on behalf of the Liget Users is clear. I quote:. The people interviewed are basically satisfied with the park and their criticisms are superficial. Basically, they want the conditions of the current use of the park to improve, but they do not require any new features. The park's main values are silence, tranquility, naturality, and old vegetation. The opinion of the locals, the most affected, is therefore clear: we do not need new buildings, we do not need new functions. *The main driving force of the so-called museum district is that the building of the Castle Palace and the Kossuth Square Curia is intended to be monopolised by the elite for its own purposes, and is therefore looking for a free winter in the city, where it can throw away the institutions, the National Gallery and the Ethnographic Museum that have become pregnant from the point of view of power. The easiest solution was to crowd new buildings into the City Park, destroying the nature of the Liget park. In Terézváros, 1 square meter is the per capita green surface, in Elizabeth, 0.2 square meters. The average age of downtowners is 3 years lower due to air pollution. It is no coincidence that the locals oppose any attempt to reduce the existing little recreational area or to pass it on to other purposes, such as serving the masses of tourists. In this situation, the removal of one square meter of green space is also a huge damage, even the cutting of one healthy tree is a sin. Dear House, There's no need for new buildings in City Park. The park needs to be renovated, trash cans, benches, toilets, rain stations, diapers, strollers and wheelchairs can also be used on roads and places. Museums should be renovated at their current location and new institutions should be implemented together with the rehabilitation of brownfield areas such as the Yózsefváros railway station. A new restoration centre and warehouse can be created. The Museum of Transport can also be renovated. However, there is no need to take the areas out of the hands of the Budapest people, and there is no need to ignore previous rules for the benefit of the people. Honourable Members, Don't look at the financial interests of yourself and your friends, but at the interests and opinions of those they claim to represent. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-16-286	Thank you very much. Next up is Congressman László Kiss, MSZP. Here.
u2015-03-16-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In 1873 Budapest and Óbuda were united, where I came from, and the united capital of the nation was established. A conscious development began with Baron Podmaniczky's circle and leadership, and part of it was this park, this community space. Technically, it could be said that Podmaniczky might have worthy successors who now support this investment, but if we look at this development [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Thank you!]] It's not like that anymore. One of the important items that we need to talk about is that the municipality of Zugló, which is one of the district municipalities of those living there, does not support this investment. Basically, he gives me three reasons he doesn't. One is that it does not support investment involving cutting down live trees and changing the structure of the green area. Although it supports the renovation of museums and zoos, it does not support the fact that this is being done at the expense of the current public park. Also, the last thing Zugló's municipality recommends to the attention of the government is that the increase in urban traffic will, by the way, be a heavy burden not only for residents but also for the park as a whole. This is very important, because if we read the concepts carefully, we can even see on the websites how beautiful and good everything will be here, if this project is implemented, but there is virtually no mention of the increase in traffic that this could mean, what it will mean for the residents or the recreational function. Not to mention the fact that the government wants to make parking with a P+R system, and I don't want to remind anyone what kind of outbursts we heard from Fidesz even a few months ago against the P+R construction. This may also show a little incoherence. My fellow Member Manninger says that the proposal meets the professional requirements of legislation. This may be true, I wish it had been so in 2013, when the mayor of the district who had failed since then submitted the bill that Parliament had adopted with record speed, which meant that this area would be nationalised and handed over to Városliget Zrt. [[20.00]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The capital has supported this proposal with a similar rapid speed, in such a way that, crowded into more than a hundred proposals, without a substantive debate, this was not allowed by the decision of the capital city. Indeed, everyone who talks about the project itself is right that civil communities, and even the district government, have not been involved in this project in substance since then, are actually not supported by the people who live there. It's a little like when in the old joke, Moricka escorts the lady from one side of the road to the other without wanting to pass. I think we shouldn't make such mistakes. At the beginning of this term, Zugló's representative submitted a proposal for a resolution, in which he wanted the City Park to remain a prominent public park, as Budapest obviously needs this. He needs the green area that this means. The Parliament practically didn't discuss this, and you didn't want to talk about it. We have already spoken with Mr State Secretary in this debate about the fact that I think everyone agrees that more museums are needed, and I am certainly not the one who thinks it is wrong to renovate these museums. I am also in favour of the museum renovations in Óbuda, why not also support the non-Óbuda museum renovations, obviously. However, the real strategic question is whether museums should be scattered throughout the city, in the downtown and in the outer districts, in order to make sure that those who want to be a cultural consumer in this city can do so geographically scattered. The significant advantage of this is that there are more guest nights here for foreigners who can come here. When you look at what foreign cultural consumers like in Budapest, this is the most often pointed out that this is the city where almost everywhere we go, there is a museum. I certainly wouldn't suggest changing this profile, but obviously, it's a matter of taste or concept. Indeed, it is also important to note that if we ask people who are already using the recreational functions of the park and the park in general - and I would like to note that it is here, isn't it, that an excellent museum is still here, and there are other museums in the field of the Budapest Zoo and Heroes, so it is not possible to say that those who enter the park now are not basically due to the consumption of culture. Well, if we ask the people who are already going into the park, who spend their everyday lives here, or go here and have fun about why they're coming here, then according to the surveys, which my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck referred to, two thirds of them report that the recreational functions are the most valued, since the park's original function, its resting function, is the most valued. If we really want to represent the people who are using this park right now, then the solution is to strengthen this function and not to further strengthen the cultural function, but to serve this kind of content, which is still happening. He says the local government in Zugló wants museums to be renovated. I think everyone does. However, the municipality of Zugló also says that he does not want these museums to be renovated in such a way that the original function of the park is weakened. In order to give you a domestic example of this, since the rehabilitation of the island of Óbuda has also come up, everyone would like it, and I would also like the rehabilitation of Óbuda Island to take place in such a way that the Hadrian Palace is explored in order to create a cultural zone, so that a museum will be created from the yard, but I do not want this to happen in such a way that the current public park function will disappear or be damaged. I think it's an excellent parallel, I don't think it looks organic, that culture and cultural values can only be served at the expense of green areas. There is a debate about how the size of the green areas is developing, and my fellow Members have indeed quoted this well. However, let me draw attention to the opinions of the architects' professional organisations and the opinion of the Air Task Force, who have been talking for a very long time about the fact that the quality of each green surface is not the same. So it doesn't matter if they're building a grassy area somewhere or there's an ancient grove area; it doesn't matter if there's a wood park somewhere or weeding in the inner zones of a P+R parking lot, and they could be classified. Therefore, it can be said that although obviously we can hear impressive figures about the project, the reality is that these areas are not necessarily equivalent. Finally, it is worth noting that this project, although it seems to be barely making progress, has cost taxpayers almost a billion forints. It was only the project office's rental cost of HUF 3.6 million, and the atlatszo.hu website provides quite interesting information about the consultant kft in the project. participated in the project and the success of the project linked to the Hungarian National Bank, thanks to which, thanks to Eiffel Palace's investment, the lucky winner who could conclude such a sales contract with the Hungarian National Bank obtained a profit of HUF 4.5 billion. I wouldn't practically bring them here right now. I would like to express my expectation or intention that it would be good for the locals, the Municipality of Zugló and the Zuglós to continue or even begin negotiations on the implementation of the project. I believe that they will accept this, so it doesn't matter what we say in this, but it would be okay if they tried to do so in terms of implementation. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-16-288	Thank you very much, Congressman László Kiss. I ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else wishes to comment in the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Péter Hoppál, State Secretary, who will respond to what has been said in a ten-minute timeframe.
u2015-03-16-289	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you in the debate for the supporting expressions of my fellow Members. [[István Apáti: There weren't many of them!]] I find that, compared to the comments and manifestations that have taken place in the last debate, the mood has now calmed down. I am pleased that, in the course of the debate, we may have managed to reduce the remaining concerns of my fellow opposition Members, that the management of the project is moving in the right direction, that the problems raised are not, in fact, problems, or much smaller than those which were said at the first stage of the debate. Allow me, however, to respond to some of their minor comments. Our fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, indicated that they would like to see the conditions of the current use of the park improved. I respectfully inform the congresswoman once again, as I did last week, that this is their intention, this is what they want, because the project, in terms of implementation, points out that the current 60 percent green surface will increase to 65%. So if the honourable opposition representatives say a hundred times that the green surface is falling, it will not be true. So the green surface - I would like to confirm once again - will increase as the final result of the project, not to a small extent, but to a large extent, with an increase from 60% to 65 per cent in a 100-hectare action area with a growth of 50,000 square meters of green space [[Zoltán Lukács: Green area or green area?]] Therefore, with regard to the outcome of the project, even if they try to hide this truth by shouting. [[20.10]] The second sentence of the congresswoman is that the park needs to be renovated. Of course, we are very much in agreement on this, and indeed, the current users of the park and the local authorities concerned would like to see a renovated, modern, XXI. The Budapest Park would be at the disposal of Budapest's people in the first century, tasteful and rehabilitated. The government wants the same thing as the people living there and the users of the park, so we fully agree on this, too, honourable Member, that the park needs to be renovated. This is also aimed at the Liget-Budapest project in addition to the concentration of museum capacity. What I would like to say is that the project is fully transparent, Member, as opposed to the higher level of public investment in previous periods, in this project we know exactly how much money the state budget has committed so far, and we also know what steps have been taken. Everything is completely public, transparent, visible, traceable on the website, and the ministerial commissioner's secretariat is also available to Members and all citizens to obtain full possession of this information. So I respectfully encourage the Member and my fellow Members to take this opportunity. I think you can get all the positive information you need to look into the actual data. Finally, Mr Kiss, I would like to add that in the previous debate I have seen you speak with great solidarity on many occasions in the interests of the Zuglós. At the time, I thought that Zugló's Member of Parliament might be stuck, which is why Óbuda's Member of Parliament should speak in the interests of the Zuglós. I don't know what to think today that the hoarseness hasn't passed in a week. The representative of the Zuglós does not seem to feel it is his task to come here in connection with the largest volume of urban investment and development, and to share his opinion with us before the Parliament's plenum. However, I am pleased that you have taken on this task from Obuda, and thank you for your comments on this occasion, and thank you all. I would like to thank Mr Manninger for confirming the legal and legislative aspects, and according to the Commission's opinion everything is going properly. The government is committed, and our goal is to create a renewable City Park by developing a new museum with a suitable, growing green surface, with real cultural experiences for the people of Budapest, for rural people and for foreign tourists. Thank you if you support our efforts in this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-290	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[Moraj on the opposition side.]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 77/2011 on the National Energy Strategy. Discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of the parliamentary decision. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The submission is H/3409. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion H/3409/3. they have been granted a serial number. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who is present, if you would like to speak now.
u2015-03-16-291	Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-292	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-03-16-293	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that this is another round of a longer debate, allow me to thank you, first of all, for the increased interest so far and for the comments that have been made so far. By confirming the original motion, I would like to confirm that this motion serves the purpose of updating the government's forecasts of the use of so-called primary energy under the national energy strategy on the basis of the mandate given by the Parliament, thereby creating a flexible workflow that will enable it to monitor changes more effectively. On this basis, allow me to repeat the request made by the government and the wallet that H/3409 should be granted. Please support Parliamentary resolution No. 1. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-294	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have 8 minutes and 50 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing; first I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, Fidesz.
u2015-03-16-295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, indicated, and said in the debate two weeks ago, in the keynote speech, in the government referral, this Parliamentary resolution - although it has a very nice title and very good content - does not affect the content or the system of instruments of the Hungarian energy strategy, the current amendment does not change the many tasks to be carried out by the government, Parliament and other organisations, nor does it impose any new tasks or detract from anyone. The amendment, if you like it, is of a legal nature, so it does not contain any substantive amendment, so I do not think it is worth opening a debate on the national energy strategy here, because it is merely - as they justify - that, given that the projections of the national energy strategy are annexed to the parliamentary resolution on this issue, they require an amendment to the parliamentary decision, in the sense that, according to the mandate of the Parliament, the government can modify the data on primary energy use and determine it in a government decree. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-296	Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh. The next speaker was Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2015-03-16-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! That is the problem that my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, has just said that we should not talk about the energy strategy, because this proposal does not affect it. This is the problem that the energy strategy, its implementation and its state of play should have been reported in 2013. So it is 2015 and now the energy strategy is nearing the end of the next two-year period, because the parliamentary decision itself, which accepted this, required that every two years the implementation of the energy strategy be examined. Now, this did not happen here in Parliament in 2013, and the next two-year report should be discussed here in 2015. Instead, we are discussing the need to clarify, define and follow the events of the energy strategy, not here before the Parliament, but the government will do so in a resolution. I am very confident that this is not the way the government wants to avoid reporting on another two-year period, although the previous period, i.e. the period 2011-13, has not been reported. Allow us to take advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that this amendment is about not having to. Although the Secretary of State of Aradski explained in the general debate that we will be discussing the implementation of the energy strategy at the time of four years, perhaps in the spring session, at the same time. Yes, you have to, because if you read the 2011 strategy, you have to see that it has nothing to do with reality. [[20.20]] After all, there have been a lot of decisions here in Parliament, despite our protests, such as the investment in Paks, which basically supersedes this energy strategy. But not only did this happen, but the strategy was about how we ensure Hungary's energy independence, and we also need to see that much of this has not been achieved, perhaps nothing, because our power supply is still vulnerable to imports, so there has not been any progress in this, and we can also see that neither our dependence on gas nor the power supply is expected to increase Hungary's energy independence, because we are committed to Russia or you are committed to Russia in terms of power supply. But in terms of gas supply, for example, because of the fact that the Slovak-Hungarian pipeline, although solemnly delivered before the elections, still does not work, is still unable to arrive in Hungary due to conflicts with Romanian and Croatian pipelines, so that the Russian gas source remains from the east, and we do not forget that there is a HAG pipeline from Austria, and that HES is connecting it and delivering cheap gas from there, we do not know who, we see, will benefit very much from this, and companies with various offshore backgrounds will benefit from this business. So it would be necessary for the Parliament to discuss the energy strategy, and we will ask Mr Aradski, State Secretary, about his promise. Although the last time you made a promise about the gas law regarding universal service providers' contracts, that the House will negotiate and find a reassuring solution, we will discuss tomorrow's bill that will not only reassure the functioning of the current universal service providers, but will make it impossible. Well, that is how the Secretary of State of Aradsk promises, but I trust that Mr Fónagy State Secretary will confirm this promise in his closing words that Parliament will deal with the implementation of the energy strategy in the committees and here in plenary even during this spring session, and will make the necessary changes on the basis of the decisions and will finally adapt this strategy to reality. I ask my fellow Members, Mr State Secretary, that we take Parliament's decision seriously, that we take the energy strategy seriously, because the Parliament has accepted it, and I very much hope that this amendment is not about avoiding even more the government's obligation to report to Parliament. Therefore, as I said in the general debate, we cannot support this proposal, and we will abstain. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-298	Thank you very much, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. The next speaker is Mr László Szakács, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-16-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't listen kindly to what Szilárd Németh said, let's check this out now, and quickly make this technical, technical transfer to the House. I believe that in this House, either in relation to the Mining Act or in relation to anything else, we have repeatedly spoken about the fact that what we really miss is the kind of strategic planning and follow-up to what we so often refer to. Energy and energy management are often used by the government today for campaign purposes, very often for opaque and sometimes difficult to decipher, and, obviously, strategic planning as such is unimaginable on the one hand, on the other hand, it is actually a drift. It has not been possible to report on the implementation of the energy strategy for four years, and in four years, I believe that technical amendments should not have been made only. So I think, as my colleague Bertalan Tóth said, that not only the decisions of the Parliament, but also the decisions of the government, should be taken seriously. I interpelled the Secretary of State on this matter, and the Secretary of State replied. Two, there is a government decision concerning the survey, extraction of domestic mineral assets, the launch of training for it, a Baranya, a Borsodra, which I do not know where we stand with the implementation of. Papers are probably made, we see PR operations in the area of former mining cities, the real action is that the government in Márkushegy closed the last underground mine. I understand the references, but we said something that could have changed that, and it could have been preserved not only for 300 people, but also for a culture of profession, it could have been preserved in Hungary, I think that it is irreplaceable and a very long-standing profession. There's no government in this right now, there's promises, there's ad hoc decisions because it was a campaign. We understand that, but that's usually the way it is, but then you have to admit that you're sorry, we didn't say it right, that's not what's going to happen. We shouldn't start to train and invite people to go to the mining school when we know that only 10-15 people are going to show up, and there's no need to hold a press conference at the mining site near Komló, that there's going to be extraction. Since then, nothing has happened in the burning world. By the end of February, it was promised in the middle of March. Obviously, we are patient, but if we are talking about energy strategy and energy independence, we believe that this is worth mentioning. With regard to the energy strategy, it is also worth mentioning and asking how we stand with the 2020 targets and why we did not change the energy strategy when, at least, we did not include matters of importance that were before this House; as Bertalan Tóth said, for example, Paks II. investment, but such was the reduction of the costs - let us not say that this did not affect the energy market - and how and how the energy market will be affected by public service. If the aim is not to know these things, and the opposition does not know, and the public does not know, then it is possible to waste time, but obviously we will ask these questions later, but it would be better to discuss these issues either in this debate or on a direct agenda on this issue, with which we can come up with a constructive approach. Without it, however, it is possible to see, on the primary side now, what energy sources the government will need, that the government can decide on its own authority, but we do understand the impact that this has had on and the impact that the government's further measures have on the strategy that has not been mentioned in this House for four years, and we believe that it is unacceptable. There is drift in this regard, there are ad hoc decisions, there are promises, and there is no strategic thinking on an important matter such as energy. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-300	Thank you, Congressman László Kács. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2015-03-16-301	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I should have told you at the beginning, but the situation has led me to have the opportunity at the end. However, let us repeat that the essence and the point of this proposal is that the basic experiential figures of the energy strategy adopted in 2011 on which the strategy was drawn were basically based on the 2008-2009 facts. There was an economic crisis in Europe and in the world at the time, the world changed by 2011 and the world is changing by 2015. It is clear that the 2011 strategy, built on 2008-2009 fact data in the 2008 baseline data, requires a review of its primary energy numbers in particular. [[20.30]] They work and work independently of any legislative or standard, and keeping them fresh, making them more flexible, I believe that it is in the country's fundamental interest and therefore all parties. But I do not think that my fellow Members are arguing either, because I understand the opposition's attitude that, on the basis of every possible proposal, there must be some criticism of government behaviour or, according to you, omission. Just on the basis of the history of the past decade and decades of energy, since my fellow Member of the Parliament was kind enough to bring up the situation of mining or coal wealth in the first place, please allow me to recall the situation of 10-15 years ago, when your fellow parties at the time, who were aware of the situation of Hungarian coal mining at the time, and were aware that some of the coal resources suitable for Hungarian extraction should be saved, indeed, they tried to avoid the obligation of voting out of their own professional convictions and the faction discipline. They knew exactly what they were doing was wrong, but then the economic policy line dictated by the MSZP and then SZDSZ was different - I refer to the mid-1990s - economic policy line. That is why I say that we know the consequences of this. In Germany, 30-35 percent of the coal wealth remained. In Germany, 30-35 percent of the energy mix is still in Ruhr and Saar. If you have had a dear fellow Member to bring it up, allow me to encourage you to look at the documents available. Hungary's mineral wealth is finished; it is not completed, but it is done from years ago, it is gradually updated. I've got the recovered coal, I've got the recovered coal, I've got the inventory of the economically viable coal wealth, and I'm happy to see you. In general, the University of Miskolc organizes the annual and biannual professional events - mainly professional ones - but also with the participation of other representatives interested in the profession. A hundred words are to an end, and I ask that this proposal for a resolution be neither put forward nor adopted in any form of government practice nor be interpreted. The aim of this proposal is that the world is moving forward, so it is appropriate to review the available, not only the available, the necessary energy, primarily primary energy quantities, and this is possible in a practical, more flexible way. Therefore, allow me to repeat my request to support this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-302	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the 2016 survey of the population on the basis of a sample of personal, family and housing conditions and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/3410. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Judicial Affairs as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/3410/4. by serial number T/3410/5. they have been granted a serial number. T/3410/6. received on a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3410/8. by serial number T/3410/9. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I will ask if one of the present members of the committee wishes to present the minority opinion later. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. The rapporteur, Márius Révész, is absent. I'll ask if anyone else wants to present the committee's opinion in no more than eight minutes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The designated committee did not submit a rapporteur, and now the speakers are taking part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to Members who have applied in writing, first I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-03-16-303	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The T/3410 in front of us. The so-called microcensus, i.e. the survey of the period between large numbers of people, was proposed. Among other things, we know from the Bible that since Christ's birth, the survey of data among the population has been of great importance. On the one hand, they provide data to current decision-makers, managers, which are in possession of which, after an analysis, appropriate decisions can be taken. This is the case in the recent age, Hungary has a large census every ten years. This bill regulates the recording to be recorded in mid-term, mid-term and mid-term. This has been the case before, but it is particularly necessary in the accelerated time, when, indeed, for years or years, there may be very significant changes in the housing conditions of the population and in all the aspects of this bill. I myself consider it particularly important, among other things, to take a survey on language knowledge. Hungary still has a poor position in terms of the language skills of the Hungarian population, for example. The survey on health status is also extremely important, as we often hear alarming news about how young people are getting worse, not just the health of the adult population. The 2016 Idea date is also important in this bill and the fact that certain data can only be entered in an unidentifiable manner and can only serve statistical, i.e. research and scientific decision-making purposes. [[20.40]] This duality, that, on the one hand, decision-makers need as much data as possible to make the right decisions, has, to some extent, always opposed and opposed individual rights that protect the different spheres of privacy. All over the world, across Europe, a great deal of attention is paid to the fact that the data required for decision-making do not restrict personality rights. This is duly dealt with in this bill by suggesting, as I have said, that the data should be entered in an unidentifiable manner and that a certain range of data should not be required. However, it is only possible and necessary to encourage the population to support the survey, since it protects the interests of all of us, the interests of the community. At the same time, due to this contradiction, it is also necessary to regulate both the method and the narrower interpretation of the data with sufficient detail and care, and it is therefore acceptable that the detailed rules will be laid down in a government decree after the adoption of the law. Well, this bill is absolutely necessary, and the Christian Democratic People's Party supports it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-304	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2015-03-16-305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In the detailed debate, several opposition parties or almost all opposition parties spoke, and we said quite a lot about the small census, so to speak, and there we also formulated a number of things that we lacked from what was not included. I would like to ask the Secretary of State one more thing, if possible. There was a news release this day - and I would like to read this, and we could have a little talk about this before we close this item on the agenda - the KSH has issued a statement through the MTI about: [[Read:]] The Hungarian Central Statistical Office is carrying out a national survey of the consumption patterns, income and living conditions of the population between 16 March and 15 May, the Statistical Office informed MTI. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-03-16-306	Congresswoman, we ask our fellow Members... thank you. Here.
u2015-03-16-307	According to the Communication, the 13 thousand households involved in household budget and living conditions data are selected at random. The questioners who seek out households have an official ID, and the questions can be answered on the Internet or with the personal assistance of the interviewer. The KSH shall keep the data confidential, and their use shall be aggregated, without any unique identification - read the information. Households answering questions receive gifts, while tablets are drawn between households completing the questionnaire online, says the Statistical Office. On the basis of this recruitment, KSH regularly provides data to various international organisations - Eurostat, UNICEF, World Bank, OECD. Among Hungarian users, journalists, individuals, companies, banks and market researchers are also regularly interested in information on the standard of living of households, says KSH.We know very well that the population's consumption patterns and income situation will not be surveyed at the census. However, if they knew that KSH was going to make such a survey, shouldn't it have been included in this already so that additional resources wouldn't have to be assigned to it, precisely because the small survey included additional survey data? Here they will ask - what we said in the debate - about the state of health, the disability, and the justification is that Hungarian citizens who are temporarily resident abroad should also be listed, regardless of whether they are registered or not. We also asked in the debate how much this budget will cost. The large census, the regular census, cost about HUF 19 billion, and the processing of the census itself took an incredible amount of time, and the Hungarian Central Statistical Office managed to publish the processed materials for quite a long time. I am asking this because the Central Statistical Office is carrying out these surveys, and if I remember correctly, Mr Secretary of State in the debate said that small population accounts will only be provided online. Do I remember correctly, Mr. Secretary, that it wasn't a personal request? Then maybe it would've been good, I should've built this kind of... [[L. Simon László: I didn't say that. It won't be paper-based, I said. The president's ringing the bell.]] It won't be paper-based, thank you for your adjusted Secretary of State. Perhaps it should have been considered that this 13,000 household survey should have been included. May I ask, is this the new social questionnaire? Or what does the KSH have to do with this time when it is known that there will be another larger survey, which will produce a 10 percent survey instead of this 2 percent survey, because instead of 2 percent, the population will be assessed by 10 percent in this small population census? At the time, Minister of State said in the debate that the more people are asked, the better the picture of the changes or the current situation will be. This would be eligible if we knew how much this would cost, what will be included in later regulations. Basically, what we were discussing in the debate back then is that we really do not see how much this will cost the budget. We hope that the process of this survey will not drag on as it did after the 2011 survey, and that we can only hope - again I can say - that it will not occur on the part of the HCSO that, in essence, certain data will not appear for months; as it did, say, at the end of last year, with the survey on poverty, when it was late months, instead of September, the HCSO published it in December. These are the answers we wanted to get. I think it would have been very important if these questions had been clarified. I'm telling you, I'm very surprised at today's news from the KSH about why this is necessary. I understand that you want to get a clearer picture of the consumption patterns or income situation of the population, although I question how well they will answer these questions, knowing the Hungarian population. Since the possibility of replying is voluntary, I question how much the Hungarian population likes to talk about consumption patterns, perhaps, but also income conditions. I even question honesty on this subject, although KSH refers here to the fact that individuals, companies, and various public opinion-research companies do surveys on this issue, so it is interesting to me why KSH had to report this now. It was written here on 16 March, and it was supposedly started today among the population, because it says in the communication that from 16 March to 15 May. I do not know how encouraging it will be for the public to answer these questions, if they receive gifts, or if they fill out this questionnaire online, they will be able to participate in a series of gifts and win laptops. I think that this could make the budget separate money for more important things. I would like us to have an answer, Mr Secretary of State, on how much this will cost us, and whether it could not have been incorporated - if it was so necessary for the HCSO to carry out such a survey - in the census survey, if they were able to add additional questions about disability, health status, and they could also ask who everyone was registered in an apartment. [[20.50]] In the debate, the Hungarian Socialist Party said that it could be supported, but we will abstain because of these issues. We would like these questions to be answered as soon as possible, and these surveys will be carried out in such a way as to ensure that the small census is carried out so that we do not experience it, as after the 2011 census, that the data has been processed for a very long time, and that we have been able to get to know these data for a very long time. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-308	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. The next speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2015-03-16-309	Mr President, Dear House, Although the debate on microcensus seems to repeat the general debate a little bit, as there are a lot of general arguments, I am also trying, in addition to the rules of the detailed debate, to give a look at Jobbik's position and, in a broader sense, the position of the profession, which might help us to think further. During the general debate, I mentioned that we, Jobbikos, do not necessarily see the solution guaranteed by amending this proposal as a guarantee, but rather by adding a much more trendy, modern and usable tool system to what lies ahead by learning a new way of thinking, rather than ten years of microcension. For example, from the proposed amendments, the LMP section has been mentioned here that ensuring the possibility of a free choice of identity might bring us closer to making the results of the sample more accurate. This is not what I consider to be the key issue, although it is obvious that it provides me with additional information if one of the two supposed or real identities is identified as stronger and the other weaker. It is obvious that details could be absorbed here and the rules for this could be drawn up. The problem is precisely that the detailed rules of the package before us will be developed for us later, and unfortunately we cannot decide on this. I would very much like to see these detailed rules, by the way, because then you could freely bless the whole thing. At the same time, when the TAB's summary proposal refers to the fact that certain parts of the measurements do not apply to those from EEA countries and stateless persons, only to third countries, there are very serious issues here. In Hungary, the problem is that the number, residence and composition of their diaspora in our country, the number of people from the Far East countries in our country cannot be assessed and evaluated very much, because there is no official data series for this, but what we need to see is that this amendment and the philosophy behind it make it difficult not only to measure the composition, housing, social and other conditions of those arriving from the EEA countries, but this philosophy also precludes us from carrying out similar investigations in relation to those emigrated from Hungary. What we need to see is that the result of the sample before us is useless without weighing it with the emigrated Hungarians and with the data stream for them. For example, I would very much like to see important experiences with regard to home creation, why half a million properties are empty in Hungary, while students, young people, middle-aged people and older people have incredible housing problems, how to bring these two systems closer together. But overall, I have to say that we can support this proposal, and I am sure it is very important, and I am sure that it can result in measurable data sets and results, although increasing the number of elements of the sample in itself and the related costs of 10 billion dollars may not lead to results in themselves. But the traditional census and the microcensus, which now complements all of this over a five-year period, let's just say it's out of fashion. They work by comparing databases in more developed countries. We have also said in the general debate, and we must say now that this proposal should not be amended with it, but it would be a dog's duty for the government to think further about what I believe should show professional openness, so that, for example, the personal income tax return of children can give us a full picture of one of the most important social groups, families with children. And if there was a way to compare the databases of family tax relief recipients and family benefit recipients, then we could also get a picture of incomeless ones, because today we are in Hungary where budget decisions are made in relation to these entire social groups, government professional decisions are made with their composition, motivations, social group dynamics essentially unknown to the government, which is irresponsible. However, if we were to add these additional databases, we would not have to wait five or ten years, if appropriate every year, every year, to discuss the report on the income situation of families raising children, which we could say could be prepared every year with the help of the tax authority, the Hungarian Treasury, and supplemented by the series of data that we are talking about measuring here and now in this debate, we would have a series of data that could be built on every year to determine the amount of family tax benefits. It is extremely irresponsible to distribute tens and hundreds of billions without the government having a database that is updated every year. That is why I can encourage you, in addition to the fact that I consider basically all kinds of similar measurements to be eligible, even if some of your cost elements are unclear, even if I would like to draw up the detailed rules partially later, but undertake this somewhat more modern thinking, undertake to include other databases in the system, by comparing them annually, and add to improve this system with pennies, since the comparison of the statements does not cost HUF 19, 20 and 15 billion. We can contribute to responsible decision-making at a lower level, at an annual level, with usable data sets, and this is the shared responsibility of all of us. So I urge you to include both in your thinking and in your long-term vision the device that Jobbik has just recommended to you. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-310	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then I shall give the floor - I see you are preparing - to Mr László L. Secretary of State, rapporteur and author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-03-16-311	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried closely to follow my fellow Members' speeches, while taking notes. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I'm glad you're interrupting again. So I listened closely to my fellow Members, with the fact that it was very entertaining, that you were misinterpreting the genre again. Although Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said that he was trying to stay with the content of the amendment, because that would be the task, this failed. By the way, there's a comma repair and a small stylistic repair. So my fellow Members did not talk about what should have been discussed; they said what was already said in the general debate, what was said in the Legislative Committee, and the Socialist Party managed to bring in a whole new dimension, raising questions that had nothing to do with the bill, because this bill, my fellow Members, is about microcensions in 2016. [[Noise on the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am pleased that you have also asked about the whole operation of the HCSO, because everything you have said could have been linked to a report on the HCSO. But in order not to leave any doubt in the congresswoman, I would like to say that the current bill is about microcensorship in 2016, which is why what you asked does not belong here. Of course, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office regularly conducts a number of investigations and researches. I looked at the electronic interface through which you can log in on the website of KSH, and in accordance with the law, data can be provided anonymously. This research is entirely independent of microcensions, with smaller samplings and fewer questions. The question of what will be included in the regulations has been expressed by the Member, as well as by the Member. We always do that in every closing debate. They ask what will come from what we have to accept. The timetable for legislation is that we first adopt laws and then, after the adoption of the laws, we draw up and adopt the detailed rules. The trial of the law cannot be the subject of a decree that will follow from the law. I understand that you would accept the law with a calmer heart if you knew what was going to happen in the regulation, but we don't know that, because for now we have to draw up the law. [[21.00]] Madam President, you have mentioned the delay in processing, which has already been formulated in previous debates. I remember giving a reassuring answer, and I partly said that sampling would not be paper-based, but that the answers would be recorded electronically. I have also said that there will be a sufficient guarantee on the part of the HCSO that there will not be a time delay which I believe, by the way, that Mrs MEP rightly objects. I feel that data will not appear for months, and I feel that it has an active political taste, because now that it comes to putting the tasks relating to poverty policy in Parliament, while we are debating the microcensus of 2016 and the law on which it is based. But that's okay, that's okay. The question of honesty has been raised by the Member, whether those who are asked will speak honestly, whether in the microcensor or in a small investigation. The essence of all this is anonymity by virtue of the law. So what happens is that they record the data anonymously. I trust that as the referendum was successful in this respect, [[Defiance.]] , the census, sorry, so will the 2016 microcensus and other smaller tests. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their activities and ask you to vote in favour of this bill. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-312	Thank you very much, Secretary of State L. Simon. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We have tabled an amendment. L. Simon László: I answered that at the committee meeting, only you weren't there. Dr. András Schiffer: Yes, you can. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on higher education and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. The submission is T/3017. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Committee on Culture as a designated committee on detailed debate T/3017/4. was given to them. The Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate on the Committee on Defence and Police Affairs as a committee on the subject T/3017/5. and T/3017/6. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3017/8. and the summary report is T/3017/9. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee indicated that it would later name the description of the minority opinion formulated in the committee. I will ask who of the present members of the committee intends to present the minority opinion later. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. First, I give the floor to László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes.
u2015-03-16-313	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is T/3017. The Commission discussed the draft law amending certain laws on higher education and submitted 24 reports and a summary amendment with 6 sexes and 4 abstentions. The summary amendment only contains the legislative committee's own proposal. With regard to the proposal, I would like to point out that the National Higher Education Act 40. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 contains framework rules on admission conditions for higher education institutions. It provides that inclusion may be subject to a specific level of language knowledge, and may be a condition of health, professional and professional competence examination. The new 23/A. § specializes in this provision of the law by making the scope of the conditions for admission more extensive in view of the nature of the training, but also more stringent in terms of points (c) and (d), and a specific legal requirement is required to determine the conditions. The amendment makes it clear that the new 23/A. § also includes only the range of possible recruitment conditions that may be required with a frame character. This framework can therefore be filled with specific content in specific legislation. Accordingly, for example, specific conditions for national security control and checks on sound living are laid down in other legislation. For example, the 1995 CXXV on National Security Services. Act CXXXII of 2011 on the National University of Public Service, Public Administration, Police and Military Higher Education. is not included in law. The addition of points (c) and (d) facilitates uniform application of the law and precludes any misinterpretation that these admission conditions would apply to all students. Accordingly, regulation should not lead to unnecessary and disproportionate restrictions on the private sector of university students. The proposed amendment includes the objectives set out in the amendment tabled by Dr. Tamás Harangozó and his fellow Member, but is more complete, as it refers back to legislation at all levels. This is why the spirit of the socialists against the proposal is incomprehensible, and their objections are supported by constitutional concerns. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Mood report.]] It was also said at the committee's meeting that fundamental rights restrictions, such as national security control, should only take place in the manner laid down by law. Only the relevant circle may be defined in a lower level of legislation. For example, as in the case of the Horn government in 2/1997. The TNM regulation regulates the definition of the range of managers and procedures for reporting, licensing, eliminating conflicts of interest and violating the ban on civil national security services. Please also reconsider your position by considering this. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-16-314	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-03-16-315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We all remember that in 2011, the University of Public Service was established by the merger of the former College of Public Administration, the College of Police Officers and the military university of Miklós Zrinyi. The aim of the legislators was to create this university to serve the state by a university of uniform and high quality, which adequately prepares future public servants for the service of the community. This is the fundamental difference between the University of Public Service and the other universities, where the emphasis is on training for science or other practical professions. It was an important aspect, and it remained, that this University of Public Service, by international standards, would be in place in the world to meet the need for science. In the past four years, the University of Public Service has received a very good rating in many respects and has held its place in Hungarian terms. [[21.10]] In order for the University of Public Service to be qualified by international standards, the purpose of the bill is 2. §8.a.:., subject to the opinion of the Board of Education, France Télécom may initiate the launch of trainings and the establishment of a doctoral school in the fields of administrative, police, military, national security and international and European public service higher education in order to request expert opinions from the organisation proposed by it, acting as a full member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education. We are well aware that international experts are also employed in the accreditation of other higher education institutions within the framework of the MAB, but these and other specific regulations are justified in view of the special nature of the University of Public Service, which is covered by this bill. Mr László Kucsák has described in the foregoing the special conditions of recruitment, the establishment of student status, which are set out as an option by this legislation, which should also be supported, precisely because of the special nature of the University of Public Service; thus compliance with the competence orientation dialogue or compliance with national security requirements. I think that it is in all our interests that young people who are responsible for running the state and who will take the lead in their university training already face the special requirements - and meet them - that will make them fit for the service of the state and thus the community. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-316	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-16-317	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, T/3017 on the amendment of certain laws relating to higher education Our group, the MSZP, has already expressed its opinion on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I'd like to talk to you about two things. One is the ominous proposal that my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó and I submitted, which is about not automatically scanning a certain range of students through national security screening, because we think it will be enough to do so when students are in a job that requires this. He passed through the Defence Committee without bones, and the pro-government representatives supported our proposal, but he failed on the TAB and there was an amendment. However, we are not entirely satisfied with this, because there is the term "the law" in place of the legal guarantee, and we fear that if this remains so, if only the word "the law" remains in the proposal, this means that it is possible to force applicants and students to automatically participate in national security screenings by means of a lower law, a ministerial decree. So the MSZP would continue to insist that we lay down a legal guarantee and a law on who has to go through this and who is unnecessary. The second half of what I have to say concerns the Hungarian Accreditation Committee and the anomalies that we see, because a beautiful story has fallen out - which is typical for Hungary - that the University of Public Service, our new university, wanted to be accredited to one of its doctoral schools, but it was not very professionally passed through the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, while it is also intended to guarantee quality and guarantee some independence, but today it is not just the people of Fidesz who sit in our other democratic institutions, so the Hungarian Accreditation Committee too. That's why it's interesting for us that you didn't pass your accreditation to the doctoral school. After that, he did not give up power, he turned to the minister himself, who also said, please, that there are very serious professional problems here, so the MAB did not throw it back for nothing, even if our people are sitting there. We are now at the point that the Minister has not helped this situation, nor has he taken it into his name, because it is the Prime Minister's Office that has now submitted the bill. So what we're talking about is that with the strength of your power, you're going through everything, you're trying to push through a concept. And Rózsa Hoffmann said that it is important to know the quality of training, the spirituality that will prevail in this new university, because the state's servants, the state's leaders, will get out of that university. At the time of accreditation, the power proves that virtually every tool can be used for it, there is no obstacle, moral or legal obstacle to pushing through their own will. Well, I can tell you, they set a very fine example for future generations. I think we should consider this because you can't do everything you can. [[L. Simon László: Talk about the amendment!]] If you think you can live with this power and this mentality for a long time in this country, you're wrong. It is not so, Madam Secretary of State, as you say, my fellow Member, Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann, that we must turn to the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education because we would be so good, but simply that the MAB does not meet the European quality requirements in its present form, and, of course, it has rejected this need of power. Do not do what you do, back down, even try to correct yourself in the wrong system you have built yourself, because it will not lead to good results. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-03-16-318	Thank you, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. The next speaker is Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik.
u2015-03-16-319	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This bill is a typical case of trying to resolve a professional dispute with force. This proposal was submitted for no other reason than because the NKE had a falling out with the MAB and came here to tell the government, the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, that a solution would be found on this issue. What happened was that they wanted to start a new doctoral school at NKE, which did not have the professional conditions, so the MAB rejected it and did not allow it to be launched. He did so by taking international action against the MAB because the European Alliance considered it too dependent on the government. Therefore, it is not possible to say with regard to the launch of this doctoral school in the case of the MAB that there is some political intention behind their decision. Following this, however, using the legislative options, the NKE appealed to the Minister for Maintenance and Education, Zoltán Balog, who confirmed the decision of the MAB, so looking at the documents, considering the arguments of the university and the MAB, he said that yes, the MAB is right, so it is not okay, it cannot go. It is not then that the NKE will in some way correct the documentation for the start of the doctoral school submitted or try to comply with the decision, but that another minister tries to withdraw the National University of Public Service by means of a legislative amendment. This procedure is unacceptable in several respects. In terms of higher education, it could be discussed what the operation of the MAB has been like over the past decades, how well-founded its decisions have been, how thoughtful it could be looked at, with the involvement of stakeholders, at the way the MAB works, at how well-founded its decisions have been, at how much they have not been. It is also possible to talk about how Hungarian higher education can find links in some way with the European accreditation association, but this can be put into law after proper preparation and reflection. Now we're going to bring a special rule to a single university, which will allow the other institutions to point out that he wants to escape the authority of the MAB for another reason. [[21.20]] This is a specific institution-specific legislation that did not involve the necessary and absolutely necessary professional consultation and reflection that this matter deserved. In the TAB's amendment proposal, we read that they can carry out this certain national security screening in a legally defined case. However, this amending proposal does not provide any more guarantees than the exclusion of this from the bill. What is the wording of the relevant paragraph, which is being amended by this proposal? In the light of the specificities of public administration, law enforcement, military, national security, international and European public service higher education, the admission to university or the establishment of student status may be subject to a declaration in which the applicant... What, then, is the facts? On the one hand, the fact that recruitment in itself may be a condition for national security screening, also in the case of administrative training. So the fact that it is inserted into it in a specific case, in a certain case, does not mean any more guarantees, since the law is not equal to the law. If you want to regulate this by law, you can write "dedicated case" in it. The legal case means that it can also be regulated in a regulation [[L. Simon László: That's right!]] To be screened for national security, even by people who have not yet reached 18 years of age. Because the law says that admission to the university may be a condition. The duration of a national security screening may take 60 days, and if 60 days prior to the recruitment start the screening, there is indeed a possibility that people who have not reached 18 years of age will have to be screened. As Congressman Kucsák said at the beginning, the fact that this amendment excludes the extension of this screening to all students is not true, since it only provides for the definition of a group of students to which national security screening is intended to be extended by law. It does not provide any more guarantees, as it can also be laid down in law to extend to all students. Following the submission of the bill, we discussed with the Secretary-General of the NKE, and I know that, according to Mr Secretary-General, there is no intention at present to conduct this national security screening either against students applying for administrative training, but this is not a guarantee of the rule of law. However, you do not seriously believe that, in a rule of law, we leave such matters to the liking of a particular institution or regulation-level legislation at the moment and leave this matter to the self-limiting of people. There should be guarantees in the rule of law, which is why there should be legislation under clear conditions. If you don't want to live with it, it's not a rule of law guarantee. I believe, by the way, that the Secretary-General and the head of the university do not intend to carry out this audit at the present time, even in cases where this is unnecessary or where the training itself does not support this. However, if you would like to close this loophole, which is currently in the law, it would be right not to do so in a legal case, but in a case defined by law. The fact that the recording may also be a condition, I repeat, that the recording takes place during applications and during the publication of the points limits. If, before that, national security screening is required, there will be candidates who have not reached 18 years of age, and this national security screening should also be conducted against them. It was evident in the general debate that when I expressed these concerns, Parliamentary Secretary Zoltán Kovács did not understand or did not want to understand what I was talking about. I hope that I will now receive meaningful answers to my suggestions. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-03-16-320	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. The next speaker is Mr István Ikotity, LMP.
u2015-03-16-321	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, T/3017 on the amendment of certain laws relating to higher education Proposal No 1 amends the Law on National University of Public Service and on Higher Education in Public Administration, Police and Military Affairs. The key element of the proposal is that a new area of higher education would be assigned to the National University of Public Service, and this would mean the courses in the area of administrative, police and military training aimed at carrying out the international tasks of the public service and preparing for diplomatic tasks. With this change, the Hungarian Accreditation Committee will be bypassed. The previous news is that in the near future the University of Public Service will be the base institution for the Hungarian diplomat training. A few days ago, it was even suggested that other areas, such as communication training, would be monopolised by the NKE, although this was later denied. They also want to introduce minor changes, such as the composition of the Senate of the University of Public Service. The reason why the LMP disagrees with the amendment is that we do not support that certain areas of training fall solely within the competence of an institution, and we do not want the diplomatic and foreign policy disciplines to be monopolised by the NKE. We know well that by reducing funding or withdrawing public seats, the government can, if it wishes, arrange similar training for other institutions so that the exclusivity of the NKE can actually be achieved in one area. At present, there is no problem with the quality of Hungarian diplomatic training and foreign policy training. These are highly sought after courses, with a score above average, high-quality trainings. You're not lucky to get into this system. The socialist amendment submitted to the text would be supported by the LMP, since we would not include provisions on national security control under the special conditions of the student relationship with the National University of Public Service, but we do not consider the summary amendment to be a good solution in the legal sense. He's using parallel regulation, he's referring to another legal authority. It would have been easier indeed to delete the obligation to carry out national security checks for certain disciplines. Not to mention that a lower level of regulation is not possible in our view, but this will be explained more precisely by my fellow group leader. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of LMP, Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-322	Thank you very much, Member István Ikotity. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Leader of the Group, LMP.
u2015-03-16-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only continue with my fellow Members, strictly in relation to the national security control of candidates for student status. The fact is that when a person is subject to national security control, they are examining whether his life is impeccable, that is, at the same time, the right to privacy and the restriction of the right to the protection of personal data. The Fundamental Law and the Constitutional Court practice impose two conditions on such a limitation. One is that it should be examined that the limitation is necessary, proportionate and that, in the case at hand, it is unavoidable. I would not go along with, for example, the specific nature and security of an impeccable lifestyle as a category for persons subject to legal restrictions. The point is that, in the case of students, a specific, detailed explanation should be given as to why it is necessary to carry out national security checks, such a life-style examination, as this would be sufficient if a body were to join its staff. But I do, and they can justify it, and I have no doubts. It is still a question of why they are not proportionate and inevitable, and they really only act in a way limited to inevitable cases, so why not only in national security studies, why should a student applying for an administrative degree, if not even an 18-year-old child, check for impeccable living. Well, don't be a clown, seriously. The second is: since 90, the practice has been unbroken, and the current Fundamental Law also contains the rule that fundamental law can only be limited by law. In comparison, you use the concept of legislation. So in Hungarian, they allow the right to limit fundamental rights in a ministerial decree. I can tell you that, because of both constitutional violations, if this passes through the House tomorrow, we can certainly expect opposition representatives to take this pass to the Constitutional Court, and I have no doubt about the outcome of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[21.30]]
u2015-03-16-324	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-03-16-325	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your comments. Thank you for the support of former State Secretary Rózsa Hoffmann. I would like to respond to some of the things that my fellow Members have said in the debate. Most of these have already been explained in the Legislative Committee, and we have had a detailed debate there, where we have had a thorough discussion of constitutional issues, where our fellow Member, who has raised a number of issues here, raised them in detail, and I have tried to answer them. So I'm not gonna do this right now. I have this almost 30-page protocol in front of me, and my fellow Members can read it; I will only respond to a few moments. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi says that there should be no automatic national security investigation and that this should not be a criterion for recruitment. It should only be later if the students are located in a place where this will be necessary. We need to make a clear distinction in the legislative intention. We do not want to check in any way who, in the course of his later life, if he has obtained a degree, where he will be employed, and whether his work or person may have a national security risk. This clearly concerns training itself, so that certain types of training can only be attended after national security screening. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But that's not what it says!]] But let me get this straight, Congressman. Why do you always have to talk about it? That's not true. I listened to it, too. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It's really outrageous that you're always talking about it when I'm talking! [[Nándor Gúr: Because it's not what you're talking about. It's that simple.]] So the point is that training will take place and will take place in the coming years at the National University of Public Service, where we have reason to believe that they will provide students with information that they know... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Public Administration?]] Seriously, Mr. President, please help me.
u2015-03-16-326	Dear Parliament, Chief Schiffer, I warn you of the consequences. You're obviously familiar with the house rules, and there may be consequences. Please. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Ask for the floor so that we can answer next time. L. Simon László: But then he will always mantra!]] To stick to it. Secretary of State, go ahead.
u2015-03-16-327	Thank you very much. Thus, students can pass on knowledge, information and information that may clearly pose a risk to national security in certain disciplines. We know many universities in the world where similar trainings take place. It is understandable that, let's say, in special diplomatic training facilities, anyone can't study. States protect their training and training places. However, what the Member said about their own amendment is much more important. I have already responded to this at the Legislative Committee's meeting, but let me say this again, because it is worth talking about. The Congresswoman and Congressman Tamás Harangozó had an amendment, which was initially supported by the Defence Committee, and then it was overwritten by the Legislative Committee's proposal, and on behalf of the Government I also said that we support this version. The proposal is essentially linked to the interpretation problem described here. The proposal would not have dealt with the problem properly, would not have made the regulation clear and would not have covered all the targeted areas of the regulation. Article 46 (6) of the Fundamental Law provides for detailed rules on the organisation and functioning of police and national security services, rules on the use of secret service tools and methods, and rules on national security activities. [[Dr. András Schiffer, speaking with István Ikotity and Sallai R. Benedek:]] This is also an answer to my fellow Member Schiffer, and I hope he is listening. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I'm listening!]] If we start from the grammatical interpretation of the relevant provision, it becomes clear that the amendment debated in the debate by Mr Bellozó, or what the Member has just said, does not apply to the organisation of the police, or to the operation of national security services. Nor does it apply to the rules governing the use of secret service tools and methods, nor does it apply to rules relating to national security activities. What the Congresswoman and Mrs President object to, therefore, does not stand up here. The bill before my fellow Members concerns higher education, including the National University of Public Service, not the ones previously listed. If we were to start from the interpretation that you have made and Mr Schiffer, then the law of the police should also be a fundamental law, but it requires a simple majority to adopt it and amend it. Your interpretation of the law could lead to the fact that the police's dress code should also be dealt with in a fundamental law. I have already indicated at the TAB's meeting that the decisions of the Constitutional Court also follow, where I specifically called on the Constitutional Court's decisions to include only the definition of basic rules in a law requiring a qualified majority. This is also an answer to Mrs Dóra Dúró. If, therefore, you have further doubts, but you seem to have, since Mr Schiffer has already set out to turn to the Constitutional Court, then I think you can turn to the Constitutional Court for standard control. By the way, I listed a number of regulations at the TAB meeting, so there's legislation, not a typo, there's legislation, there's legislation on purpose. [[Dóra Dúró: That's the problem!]] I have listed a number of regulations which otherwise provide for who should be subject to the national security law, i.e. who should or may be subject to a national security investigation. These include the 2/1997, the 4/1997, the 3/2005 Prime Minister's Order, the 17/2002 Prime Minister's Order, the 4/2008. and the 75/2014 BM regulation, but there's still a lot more. It is therefore possible to establish by a regulation who should be subject to a national security investigation. So, in the bill before you, it is perfectly correct that we do not want to define by law, but by regulation, who should be subject to a national security investigation. The Congresswoman said that I am now turning to the suggestion of Mrs Dóra Dúró that the inclusion is subject to national security screening and that, therefore, even minors should be subject to a national security investigation. That's not true! The establishment of a legal relationship for the beginning of studies... [[Dóra Dúró: The condition of recording! It's the law!]] No! I want you to read what's written right there. [[Dóra Dúró: I've read it! The president's ringing the bell.]] The establishment of student status. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] The Member said that with this bill, we want to exclude the National University of Public Service from the operation of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. That is simply not true, honourable Member. The bill does not affect matters relating to institutional operating permits, they remain among the sole experts of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee. Some areas of the operation of the National University of Public Service are exclusive activities due to the special purpose status of the university, and other higher education institutions are not entitled to continue in Hungary. According to the bill, it will therefore be possible for the Maintenance Board of the University of Public Service to initiate, under the law, the preparation of an opinion on certain matters falling within the exclusive competence of the MAB, such as the launch of administrative, police, military, national security and international and European public higher education courses and the establishment of a doctoral school. [[Dóra Dúró: That's it!]] a foreign organisation operating as a full member of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education. So the use of the foreign organisation is only an additional option, it is not compulsory to use it, as a rule the Hungarian Accreditation Committee continues to act on these matters. And Congressman Ikotity pushed this by saying that they do not want certain disciplines and specialties to be monopolised by the National University of Public Service, because that argument, which I have said, is the basis for it. But this is not the only example in higher education, ladies and gentlemen. In Hungary, only one higher education institution has been training for over 200 years, let's say veterinarians. It's a monopoly, a monopoly on higher education. It has been an independent university for a long time, and we hope that it will be the Faculty of Veterinary Science, which is part of St. Stephen's University again. [[21.40]] But in Hungary, only one institution forms foresters, the University of Sopron. So let's not pretend there's only one institution here that provides special training. But I could also take the University of Physical Education as an example, along with the fact that there are physical education courses. Art higher education is also the same. All those, in this sense, as my fellow Member Ikotity said, are monopolies. Monopoly. Of course, I know that there are colleges in the country where there is art teacher training, but that's not the same as university training. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, I think that we also responded clearly to opposition points at previous committee meetings. I'm asking you to support the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-328	Thank you, Secretary of State L. Simon László. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/3018. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Judicial Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/3018/2. by serial number T/3018/3 and its meaning by T/3018/3. they have been granted a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3018/5. by serial number and summary report by T/3018/6. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, A total of 15 minutes is available to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. First, I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-03-16-329	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 5 March 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. T/3018 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the three-point amendment of the Judicial Committee, which was supported by our committee with 24 yes, 6 no and 4 abstentions. This bill concerns the settlement of disputes, the rules on dispute resolution. It is about introducing rules such as press adjustment into civil order, which can be clarified in a relatively rapid dispute settlement procedure whether there was a permit to create, use or not an image. This new dispute resolution rule is an optional option, regardless of which, of course, compensation rules for personal rights violations and liability can continue to be used. Thus, the two proceedings do not preclude each other, and even this procedure confirms that if the court has ruled between the parties with a judgment, it is still possible to claim compensation in separate legal proceedings. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 24 yes, 6 no and 4 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-330	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. I'll see if there's a minority opinion. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a signal. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the authors, if Mr Répássy wishes to speak. You have a ten-minute time frame.
u2015-03-16-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For the fourth time, we can debate this bill, because first we have the opportunity to present our arguments at the plenary session, then at the Justice Committee meeting, then at the Legislative Committee and now again at the plenary session. I am curious about how my fellow opposition Members can put the bill in a new light, since we have already heard each other's arguments three times. I do not want to repeat the debate, but again I would like to draw attention to the fact that I very much ask you not to confuse civil substantive rules with civil procedural rules, since the bill only amends civil procedure. The question is, what are the rules of the abuse of image, these are the rules of the civil code, not the rules of civil procedure. By the way, the bill consists of a total of three sections. A total of six new sections of these three sections would be included in the civil order, so compared to the intense debate that has taken place, it is not considered to be of such importance that they should be inciting anger from the members of the legislative process. Once again, I am very curious about how you can put the bill in a new light during the fourth debate, and I ask you to use with confidence the answers that we have sent to the Judicial Committee, because in that we have responded precisely to a number of criticisms raised by the National Court Office, and all of these, I think, may be before you, because members of the Judicial Committee are also present. I would like to say that the Judicial Committee has tabled the amendments which the rapporteur has adopted and which have been drawn up or formulated in consultation with the National Court Office. So the bill now contains the criticisms of the OBH that we have accepted in the form of a single summary amendment proposal by the Legislative Committee and in the form of its summary proposal. Once again, I would like to point out that the criticism of the National Court Office - by the way, the criticism from the Mansion - that the bill would be unconstitutional. I have already said this in all the forums that it is difficult to imagine a change in civil procedure which violates fundamental rights. It can be imagined if the rules of civil procedure as dispute resolution hinder freedom of expression. So we can imagine that fundamental rights would be violated by this bill if there were obstacles in the rules of civil procedure that would make journalists or, I don't know, individuals dare to take photographs in the future. The reason why I put it so circumstantially now is because, of course, the Curia was not kind enough to describe what it saw as a violation of the basic law, but it is certain that fundamental rights are difficult to violate, since it is not a matter of substantive law, but of procedural rules. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-332	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate you will have more than six minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was set up by the designated committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-03-16-333	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, For a long time I thought about whether to give a minority opinion, but I did not - although in my next sentence I explain why I did think about it - because I was not present at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. What made me think about it, though, is that half of the debate actually took place in connection with my distance. This is interesting because the Secretary of State has asked us to bring new elements into this debate. Well, I'll try to get you into this. What Mr Secretary of State has referred to, and I would like to start with the substance and content issues, I think that it should be highlighted at this stage of the debate as well. [[21.50]] These arguments have not yet been made in plenary, but we have debated them only at a committee meeting, in particular at the Justice Committee. Dear Secretary of State, Without, by the way, submitting arguments and arguments to a more serious investigation, which comes from the Curia, the OBH and the Justice Department, I find it intriguing to see if this is even worth doing. Is it worthwhile to do so when both the National Court Office and the Curia practically say, in simple terms, that it is wrong as it is, as it is, unnecessary as it is? If the OBH describes:. The objective cannot be achieved with the proposed legislation, it raises a number of material and procedural problems. I also quote the Ominosian sentence of the Curia, which is the last two-and-a-half paragraph, and it literally says: "Suppressed: we consider the proposed regulation unnecessary, not consistent with material legislation, constitutionally concerned and fundamentally flawed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, When this is the opinion of the competent college at the top of the enforcement bodies, I think it is unnecessary to raise other arguments. Then it is probably the case that, in addition to the fact that the government has not agreed with the courts, or that this negotiation was formal at best and not substantive, and if the law-abiding is so far from this new law, then I think that the government should not be looking for arguments, but should withdraw this proposal and sit again at a table, or it is possible that first sitting at a table with professional representatives, courts, prosecutors, the bar of attorneys and other stakeholders on how to correctly formulate this regulation; even if the objective is not, for example, challenged by OBH, the objective expressed by the government. So, Mr Secretary of State, I think that when, in one of the pans of the balance sheet, the Curia and the OBH have such an opinion, it doesn't matter what we put in the other, and as a lawyer, I do not wish to submit this proposal to professional reasoning, which is precisely why: it is not worth it, after such an opinion it is not worth it, nor should it be. There is only one possibility that is reasonable and sane: the government withdraws this proposal. As far as the procedural part is concerned, this is where I come to the meeting of the Legislative Committee. Members of the Legislative Committee did not receive the Ministry's position on the opinions of the Curia and the OBH. There has been quite a long debate about the fact that the Secretary of State has explained that the members of the Justice Committee have received it. That is true, but, Mr Secretary of State, you were then given to members of a committee that had never dealt with this matter again and did not deal with it. So you sent it to the members of a committee who would never see this case again; but you didn't send it to members of a committee who, on the other hand, will have this case before them. And there was only one argument, let's just say, against the Secretary of State in this regard: it is my person, because, frankly, I am the only opposition Member who is also a member of the Judicial Committee and of the Legislative Committee. Special for other matters of public interest, or should I say, I was unable to attend the committee meeting because of important private matters. I think it is not an argument that I have received it, so the rest of the committee should know that position. I may be in the same group as some of my fellow socialist Members, but I am a Member of Parliament on my own, and I have no obligation to inform the other Members of what kind of writings are coming to me, nor is it my duty. The government has an obligation to give this information to Members, I think it is good to give it, or perhaps it is fortunate to give it if it wishes to have a substantive debate about it in the Legislative Committee. But I can't put that on my shoulders anymore, so I think, let's just say, I didn't send this to the better Members. Well, that's certainly none of my business. So even if there could have been some debate about whether it would have been fortunate if I had sent it to my fellow socialist Members, fellow political groups, there would certainly not have been a debate whether or not I would have sent it to the independent member of the committee, opposition member or my better fellow Members. Therefore, I think that if you really wanted to refer to the Government's opinion, which you sent to the members of the Judicial Committee, you could have done so at the same time to the members of the Legislative Committee. To the best of my knowledge, this did not happen, so it was not possible for the committee to have a substantive debate on the ministerial arguments. But I would like to emphasise once again that, in fact, I think that the Legislative Committee has lost nothing; this is a matter of principle, Mr Secretary, and I raise this as a procedural question. It would be good for the government not only to communicate directly with the committees, but also with the members of the Legislative Committee, because then there will be no other problem. For example, Jobbik does not have a single overlap between the members of the two committees. But once and for the last time, after such a court opinion, it doesn't matter what the Ministry's position is. There is only one possible democratic approach to the rule of law: if the Government withdraws the proposal after that. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-334	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. At the time frame of Fidesz, I will give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, in two minutes' notice.
u2015-03-16-335	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologise to everyone for dealing with this issue of a point of order or procedure. I would like to make it clear, Congressman Bárándy, that no one blamed you at this committee meeting, at the Legislative Committee, because the National Court of Justice sent its comments to the Judicial Committee, not to the Ministry, but to the Judicial Committee. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice also sent its replies to the Judicial Committee, and you received it not from us, but from the Judicial Committee as a member of the Judicial Committee. So we sent letters to the committee, just like the OBH sent letters to the committee. It is undoubtedly true that we have not sent this letter to the Legislative Committee again, because we thought that the fact that one of the Parliamentary Committees received this letter will give it to the committee is an official notification to the Parliament, so it is officially aware of the Committee of Parliament. I note that the OBH did not send its comments to the Legislative Committee, so that is why there was no debate or debate about them. So, on the one hand, neither is anyone blaming you, and I think the Ministry of Justice has not missed this issue; I would like to comment on your position on the content later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-336	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2015-03-16-337	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You have said here that you have no doubts that we may not say anything new, or you are curious to know that we are saying something new. I do not think that there is anything new to say, and the other is that I would not expect him to hear anything new, because we have always said new positions, even at the beginning and at the beginning of the debate, in the TAB, new positions, and we have always received the same answers. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I agree with my fellow MSZP Member that if he doesn't listen to us, or if he doesn't want to hear our voice, perhaps one person, the OBH, whose proposals, otherwise with certain improvements, have been heard and managed to be incorporated, their voices and the voice of the Curia should be heard. [[22.00]] It is very simple to think about who will be the highest case-law forum on the one hand and who is currently shaping the case-law in Hungary. If the body forming the case-law says that they have problems with the procedural law, and that, in addition to the procedural law, the substantive law will not apply properly, then it does not have to be a great divination, and it does not have to be a special talent to see how the individual lawsuits will end, especially if, by the way, the lawyers will know precisely that the case must be appealed until it reaches the Curia, or until it reaches, for example, where the common case-law, let us say, better applies, for example, in the courts or, for example, in the judgment board. So from now on, there will be a very simple scheme in this, and we will use it to make it an applicable, living right, an applicable, living procedure, instead we will get one that is likely to be abused at some level. So I'm not asking him to hear me, but I want him to hear the OBH, it's definitely worth listening to the Mansion, and it's definitely worth consulting with them. We have repeatedly said that there is a lack of coordination here, and perhaps this insult from the Mansion, if it is possible to even think about their idea of what it might be, it may be that this insult speaks of them, or it has motivated them to express their views. And we do not need a new argument, our old arguments were well known to you, and I would just like to mention that, in essence, the procedure doubles the procedural possibilities in this way - otherwise completely unwarranted, in my view - and introduces a procedure in which there is a guaranteed, almost 95 percent loss of lawsuit for the party who otherwise has the burden of proof, because he will be unable to carry out adequate proof on the basis of the current rules of proof, or with the result of material law. I wouldn't even talk about it anymore, and I don't want to bring it here, that I personally see a mistake in material law, or that I think it doesn't really fit a modernity test, but perhaps even the constitutionality test wouldn't be in line with the modernity that might cause a more serious crisis in the area of these rights with the emergence of image protection, social media and information technology. So I think it would be a good opportunity to wait for the new concept of Pp, which has been completed, is on the government's table, and you know it, put it on the government's table, and perhaps the government has also decided that the new Pp. its concept and orientation. This would be our chance while we're working on this, and while we're at Pp. His detailed debate will not take place, so that we can rethink this entire procedural part until then, with the insights of the OBH, the Curia, with a better intention and after consultation, and finally make a procedural right to this separate procedure that could be used in essence. I think what we are dealing with here is that if we leave the procedural legislation in this way, then the pudding test will be a failure, so it will be very easy to model it, and I say that it may be abusive to sue and appeal in these cases, and to see precisely how much the shaper of the case law disagrees and what concerns he has with the procedural law itself. So I would have suggested these two in fact, and that is what could be added to the socialist position, by the way, that Pp would be more worthy of this debate. to postpone its detailed debate with the amendments proposed by the Curia and those proposed by the OBH, and in any event to be consulted before it, because at the moment it seems very much that we are about to adopt an inapplyable and truly constitutionally worrying provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]]
u2015-03-16-338	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2015-03-16-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that if we look at the bill as procedural legislation in itself, it is, of course, a forward-looking and modern codification work, and I can even say that what has been proposed in the summary amendment is, of course, also eligible; but we will not be able to vote for this proposal precisely because the substantive and procedural rules cannot be broken up in this case. So, of course, I understand Mr State Secretary's concern that criticism essentially concerns substantive rules, but then, Mr State Secretary, when there is a specific procedure, which is precisely because it is not usually aimed at enforcing material rights, as is usually the case, but at the specific enforcement of a specific substantive right or two specific substantive rights, we cannot ignore the nature and quality of the substantive rule on which it is based. This procedure is the foot of something, so to look at it as being abstract from the fundamental, so the substantive rule of law, is not possible, and I assume that the concerns of the Curia which I have not really known are also due to something like this. It is simply that, if we look at it alone, it is, of course, a modern rule, but if we look at the shortcomings of the substantive rule, then we can see immediately that an accelerated rule with this reverse burden of proof, which my fellow Member Luke has just mentioned, can very easily lead to the fact that, yes, indirectly, this rule could lead to a worrying disproportionate violation of the freedom of the press. The point is that in the event that, say, in a public-interest event, there is someone standing in the background who is not a public figure, who does not have his consent, and the press product or, let's say, a blogger should calculate that in a very short period of time he will be brought into a lawsuit where he is practically involved with the rest of the underdogs, then a preliminary censorship that I think is undesirable will start. But I'm going to go on: since the concept of a public figure is uncertain, what is the new Ptk? During its parliamentary debate, we also put forward a proposal on how the concept of a public actor should be circumscribed. This concept is uncertain, and from now on it is once again uncertain whether the journalist will otherwise agree to an infringement where, in a short time, he is virtually unable to defend himself, subjecting himself to a certain loss of lawsuit. And one more thing, Mr Secretary of State: after the underlying rule of this special procedure is the civil order, I suspect that, for example, the Curia, the OBH, may have constitutional concerns that, beyond the fact that the substantive rules are rather uncertain, not only are the press agencies going into such an accelerated procedure, with virtually no weapons in their hands, but there is also the possibility of temporary action. So in a strange way, because of which, on the one hand, as a procedural norm, this legislation is forward-looking, that is precisely why constitutional concerns can be raised on the other hand, because it is a matter of ordering a temporary measure within such an accelerated procedure, it means that tomorrow you can crush something or take photos of an Internet portal. This means that, on the one hand, if we look at the right to the private sector, this is, of course, a very forward-looking institution, if we look at, Mr State Secretary, the state of the underlying substantive rules, then this certainly raises the possibility of a serious, unlawful restriction on freedom of the press. I still think it is important to pay attention to what the Constitutional Court said last autumn, and there is a conflict between the position of the Curia and the Constitutional Court. In the case of non-violent recordings of public-interest coverage, the consent of the persons concerned should not be sought. I go further, also following the intentions of the Constitutional Court, it is absurd that if someone takes action on behalf of the public authority - execution officer, police officer, with or without an identification number - his face must be covered. At present, however, the material legal base is rather uncertain. It is possible to introduce such a special procedure by first correcting the substantive legal bases. As long as it is uncertain whether, for example, a photograph of an armed person acting on behalf of the State might be given, such a procedure cannot be introduced as long as such uncertainties are present. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-340	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a minute and a half. [[22.10]]
u2015-03-16-341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr Secretary of State answered the procedural question, and I would like to stick to it, and I have already talked about the content issues. Mr State Secretary, you could formally be right about what you are saying, because the courts have actually sent the opinion to the Judicial Committee. However, the Secretary of State was also faced with the passing of time, and he knew precisely that when he sent the opinion of the Ministry, the Justice Committee would no longer meet on this subject, but the Legislative Committee would deal with this issue. I think that the government could also take account of the functioning of Parliament in this regard, and if it really wants Members to be able to appreciate from a substantive point of view the material that he intends to do so, then consider where the pace of legislation is. If you send it to a committee that the government knows is not going to deal with this issue anymore, then I believe that you are making a mistake, especially if it is in the interest of the government to see the government's position. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-342	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. Then I'll give the floor to the author within a six-minute time frame.
u2015-03-16-343	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Bárándy, let me pick up where you left off. The Ministry of Justice wanted to help Members and the Justice Committee by giving written opinions and written answers to OBH's proposals. Otherwise, we wouldn't have had an obligation to write down our position point by point. I regret that you did not reach all the Members who wanted to hear this opinion, but I would like to stress that we were not obliged to give written answers here. We could have gone through the Justice Committee point by point, and then we would have said at the committee's meeting about our position on these criticisms. I could say it was an extra service on our part. But next time, we will consider more carefully how to deliver the written opinion. As far as content is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return very briefly to substantive law, since you have mentioned it more than once. I would like to state a fact that you may have heard from me, but I would like to say again that the provisions of the new civil code concerning the abuse of image were written by the Vékás editorial committee, and, to be exact, László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, has written this part today, or at least he has supervised the provisions of the civil code on personal rights. The government has submitted this bill to Parliament in unchanged form, and Parliament has not amended it. So what we now have in material law is the personality law chapter prepared by professors, and we didn't add anything to that, and we didn't take any of it. I'm not sure this will convince you, but I would like to say that this was not a political intention, but a professional, scientific position. By the way, they referred to - we have often said this - that only the existing decades of judicial practice were codified when the consent to the image was included in the contribution to the use of the image. So they described a judicial exercise, that was the position of the editorial committee. As regards the opinion of the Curia and the National Court of Justice: honourable Member Bárándy, in this particular case, the Curia has already had opinions that the Constitutional Court has overruled. Excuse us if we do not accept the opinion of the Curia without thinking, because - you referred to the rule of law - the rule of law is that the decisions of the Curia as a legal unit can and have already been overruled by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, if the Curia continues to have reservations about this bill, it expresses constitutional concerns, the rule of law requires that the proceedings before it may be suspended and the Constitutional Court's decision may be requested. I stress that, according to the Ministry of Justice, the bill is in line with constitutionality in everything, so there is no violation of any fundamental rights of the new dispute resolution rule that is included in civil order under the law. And when the Curia turns to the Constitutional Court, at least we'll know their reasons, because these reasons have not yet been explained by the Curia. Dear House, After all this has been put forward, I ask you to consider the words that András Schiffer has said. I also heard his criticism, but I also heard him say that, by the way, the bill itself could be an effective tool to prevent the abuse of image. I would like to confirm that, in our view, as opposed to the position expressed by the OBH, the amendment under the bill is an effective solution to ensure the protection of the right to image and audio recording. This is to be done in the preliminary procedure by promoting voluntary compliance of applicants, the exceptional nature of the special procedure, the possibility of providing evidence as soon as possible with regard to the legal basis, the rapid sanctionability, the taking of evidence and the submission of evidence. The extent to which the proposed procedure will result in the effectiveness of the protection of rights in the cases covered by the observations will only be established in practical application. I am very confident that, after the proposals that have been made to amend the bill, the National Court of Justice, and not him, but the courts, will find no objections, and therefore an effective means of protecting the rights of personality, the bill that is now before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-344	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment to Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal on the ban on working in the retail sector follow. Independent motion by Members Kristóf Szatmáry, Imre Vas and Péter Harrach T/2413. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/2413/5. and T/2413/6. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2413/8. and the summary report is T/2413/9. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I therefore give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2015-03-16-345	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Legislative Committee is T/2413. In the context of the ban on working in the retail sector on Sunday, the Committee discussed the bill amending Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour and presented a report and a summary amendment with 25 yes and 7 abstentions. The amendment contains only the legislative committee's own motion. The amending proposal is set out in Annex 1 to this Regulation. Instead of paragraph 2 (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Article 5 of the Act settles the question of a 100 per cent wage In this context, the Labour Code 141. § 1) is formally clarified, while paragraphs 2 and 3 regulate the special case where the employer is the CII of 2014 on the prohibition of Sunday work in the retail sector. On Sundays under law, on specified days of the year, it carries out retail activities or wholesale activities at the same place and time as retail activities. [[22.20]] Paragraph 2 and 3 are formally clarified, while paragraphs 2 and 3 regulate the specific case where the employer is a CII of 2014 on the prohibition of working in the retail sector on Sundays. On Sundays under law, on specified days of the year, it carries out retail activities or wholesale activities at the same place and time as retail activities. (22.20) According to this regulation, a 100 per cent allowance is paid to the employee of the retail employer who carries out the statutory retail activity and the commercial service provider on the Sundays when the shops may be open. Overall, on the basis of what has been said in the Legislative Committee, we can say that some 100 to 120 thousand people, 100 to 120 thousand workers, are improving their financial situation as a result of this bill. That is why I call on this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-346	The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Lukács.
u2015-03-16-347	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. In the debate in the Legislative Committee, there was a minority position, according to which this measure, which provides 100 percent of Sunday's wage to those who work in the retail trade on a Sunday, and who are allowed to work at all; they can receive a 100 percent wage supplement. On the basis of the minority opinion, it is gratifying that at least 50 percent of the wage supplement is raised to at least 100 percent of these employees. It was also said in the debate that you were the ones who voted against the opposition's proposal to increase the wage supplement on Sunday to 100 percent and now give it very narrowly. As a minority position in the debate, it has also been said that this is the same as the whole law, which aims to allow workers to be with their families on Sunday, to be free on Sunday, only partially realized, we are thinking of commercial workers, because otherwise, no other employee would be protected by the government. So only commercial workers have to be together with their families on Sunday, in all the other jobs, or in all the other sectors, in your opinion, you do not have to be with your family. Also, only workers working in trade on Sunday have to provide a 100 percent wage supplement, no one else has to provide a 100 percent wage supplement, even if they are working on Sundays. We said that if there's a 100 percent wage supplement in the convenience store, there should be a 100 percent wage supplement in the industrial park. If the retail store has a 100 percent Sunday allowance, it should also be in the museum, in cultural institutions, in the baths, on the beach and everywhere else where people work on Sundays. You want to reward those who work on Sundays or see their wages at a higher level with a 100 per cent wage supplement, but neither in committee nor at the hearing of the law has any answer as to why it is only for those who work in trade. It's very right that they deserve it, but we're just suggesting that if they get it, everyone else gets it. There was no logical explanation for all these claims. The Secretary of State, who was present at the meeting, otherwise shared our views, saying that it must be considered that, due to the increase in real earnings and the increase in earnings, it is necessary to increase these weekend and Sunday wage allowances, but at the same time we have not seen any concrete promises or concrete ideas. So once again, the most fundamental problem, and we didn't press 'no', but'stay' because we agree that at least these people will get the 100 percent wage supplement, that's okay, but we do not agree to take them out of the workforce, and we only care about commercial workers, and we won't allow that for anyone else. Why do you think that if it's for a commercial worker, then it's not for any other employee? And now I'm just talking about workers, and I didn't talk about people who work according to their profession on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, policemen, firefighters, medical workers. But there are industrial activities where continuous work is needed, such as power plants or jobs where work cannot be stopped on weekends. Again, why doesn't a power plant worker deserve a 100 percent salary if the salesman at the convenience store gets a 100 percent wage supplement from you? If someone could give us a logical answer, we could support that. But since your idea is completely illogical and completely unreasonable, we cannot vote for it. We will continue to abstain, because we agree that trade workers should receive a 100 percent wage supplement, but we continue to suggest that if we give them a 100 percent wage supplement, then every Sunday worker will also be entitled to a 100 percent wage supplement, because such a disadvantage in the world of work cannot afford a single government. That is why we did not support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-348	Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No application. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Congressman Zsolt Becsó has the floor.
u2015-03-16-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz is on the side of hardworking people who live on wages and salaries. That is why we support the government's efforts to make the next few years about them and their family progress. With the bill banning work in the retail sector on Sunday, the government parties wanted no one to be forced to work on Sunday against their will. Sunday should be a day of rest for most families, a day that all members of the family can spend on recreation or recharge. This can be achieved first in trade. Since trade is the driving sector of the national economy, it was only appropriate to resolve the rules to a reasonable extent, subject to the application of the obvious exceptions. In cases where the legislation allows the possibility of working on Sundays in the retail trade, for example during the Advent period, it is necessary for Sunday workers to receive a higher wage supplement than is currently the case. Thus, according to the proposal, there is a 100 per cent allowance in the retail trade for all workers who only have to work on the five Sundays when the law makes this possible. If it falls on Sunday 24 December or 31 December, there will also be an increase in the wage on Sunday. Employees of shops that are open every Sunday continue to be entitled to a 50 percent Sunday allowance. Europe is also divided on this issue. Most EU Member States receive extra wages for workers working on weekends and holidays. In the Baltic States, Portugal and Slovakia, the minimum hourly rate increased by 50 per cent is the minimum, unless otherwise stipulated in the contract of employment. Instead of wage compensation, the French make up for the loss of rest with extra days off. In Cyprus, only shop workers are required to pay double, it is also only on holidays and Sundays. [[22.30]] Under British law, the conditions for working on the weekend should be laid down in a contract concluded between workers and employers, otherwise the employer is not even obliged to pay extra wages to sacrifice rest days on the altar of work. In Hungary, nearly 900 thousand workers work on Sundays with some frequency. Seventy percent of Sunday workers are employed in an employer or job where Sunday work results from the nature of the activity and therefore cannot be subject to a special allowance. These include workers in agriculture, energy, transport, accommodation, catering, law enforcement, defence, health, social care and entertainment. If employers would have to pay 100 per cent of all forms of work on Sunday and this is also to Mr Luke, the annual additional burden of the corporate sphere could be HUF 94 billion and HUF 32 billion for the public sector. [[Zoltán Lukács: Two stadiums!]] At present, however, the performance of the economy does not yet allow for this additional burden. I would ask for the support of the proposal. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-03-16-350	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-03-16-351	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We've already established that you're good at closure. They can shut down factories and factories, close mines, shut down hospitals, well, well, they can close shops with success, but we'll see how long-term success can be achieved. But they're not only good at locking up, they're good at evisceration, they're good at that, too. Just think about the 2012 Labour Code, when, while we are talking about the allowances, my fellow Member Becsó, you have abolished the afternoon allowance for the allowances. You've reduced the night allowance to 30 percent, halved the Sunday allowance. What are you talking about? Don't be a charity, so as not to have to live on Sunday as a benefit, says my fellow Member, that 100,000 people in trade, if I remember correctly, are working 530 thousand people, and then you can get a Sunday allowance, a hundred percent bonus! But you took away these people's Sunday allowance back in the day. Now a fraction of it will be returned - a fraction of it will be returned - and they will be happy and will be brought back! Where do you live? ! What are you talking about? But not only in terms of allowances, but also in terms of job removal, if we think about it. This brings with it that people are excluded, and some people need to work more. But when? Let's just say, on weekdays, you know, in the afternoon, on extended shifts, you know, when there's no afternoon allowance. Brilliant. Wonderful! It's wonderful. It's just for the people. For whom? Which ones? For the people who live on wages and salaries, says my fellow Member Becsó. Well, they've done it for them. They've got what they deserve from you, you think. No, it's not what people deserve. People deserved to be fair to them. What they deserved was that of the people you were talking about, my fellow Member, those below average earners, those in the area of minimum wage, so that they could get more wages - no less, no more. During your period, the minimum wage man, I have told you several times, I repeat, has access to five thousand forints less value than in 2010. You know, the whole point of minimum wage is that it's worth what's in hand and what's in store for it. It's a very simple story. One word, as a hundred, is contradictory, and they act, my fellow Member Harrach, my fellow Member Becsó, my fellow Member Mengyi, Member Szatmáry, who is no longer coming here, so many who are taking positions on this issue. My fellow Member Harrach and I have almost agreed here the other night that, yes, he sees fit what we say, a hundred percent on Sundays for everyone who works on Sundays. Not for some and few, no! All of you! My fellow Member said that it was okay, that he could accept it, and he could support it. Where's the unit? Where is the unity between Christian Democrats and Fidesz for the sake of the people? You know, for the sake of people who live on wages and salaries. This is where they should unite, make an alliance, this is about people, and this is about people, and it's about people. They seem to be unable to unite in this, and my fellow Member Harrach will not come. My fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, is not here because he must be divided against himself when he confronts his earlier sayings and actions. One word for it, I just want you to think about just talking about what you're doing. You don't have to talk in the walls of this Parliament. It's not pride, it's arrogance, it's a show-off that people want, it's what they say, they do. If you wish to serve people who live on wages and salaries - to serve, and I say once more to serve, unlike Secretary of State Czibere, when he comes here and his first sentence is that when we are in power, we are not in power, but we are in service - then also learn that the service means that they are acting in the best interests of the people, especially those who are in need. One word, like a hundred, if you have a drop of decency, if you have a drop of conscience, the minimum is that what you had before 2012, the hundred percent Sunday allowance, the afternoon allowances, the higher amount of night allowances, you provide it out of hips and bites to people, and you don't fool them with what you're doing right now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-352	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2015-03-16-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in 2011, there was a very serious debate here about the Labour Code. Many of us remember, many of us trying to forget this, we are debating it at a late hour, but then the debate started later, around an hour, half past two, and that's when you thought you could have a detailed debate on the Code of Work. The only reason I'm telling you this is because it's true that you practically destroyed the labor code. They have made the labour market flexible by making Hungarian workers flexible. Workers' rights have already been removed by their previous proposals, for example, by amending the strike law, the possibility for trade unions to act in the interests of workers has been gradually reduced. It is true that at that time, among other things, the bonus system was destroyed. Supplements have been abolished and bonuses have been significantly reduced. I think that the step that you are now taking is a fraction for a few days and for a narrow group of workers. Obviously, this is just more than it has been before, just as much as it is in the proposal, but obviously for hundreds of thousands of workers this is no solution at all. It fits in with what you've done so far. Gradually, from week to week, new ideas are intended to make the opening hours on Sunday impossible, which is interesting in the sense that a significant number of employees are at a disadvantage, as they are forced to, so it is apparent that they are working from the opening hours of the shops, during the everyday and Saturday periods up to 8-10 o'clock o'clock, since during this period the shops have extended their opening hours to a significant extent, but the afternoon allowance is not available. So they can't get any extra income in any way. By the way, we also have information that in the countryside, for example, the fact that shops cannot open at five o'clock is a serious problem in several settlements, according to the new legislation it is possible to open at six o'clock, which is mainly a serious problem in small settlements. Pay attention to that, I'll take that. Obviously, it's a lifeless suggestion. As many times as this story will be absolved, this story will fail, as has been the case in most countries, where this has been introduced, and even in several countries across Europe, these proposals are now being corrected. If the bonus scheme in the Labour Code was restored earlier four years ago, then I think that we could significantly increase the income of low-income workers. [[22.40]] It would be in the interest of workers and not in their interest to limit the opportunities for their employment. I think that you should consider this, especially in the light of the fact that it has been said today that some 2.2 million sja-ers confess to less than the minimum living income per month. That's an amazing number, I think. I think that Parliament should do everything it can to ensure that its employees are not poor in Hungary. What you're doing is the opposite process, which deepens employee poverty. Not only is this what they are doing, but obviously the fact that the real value of the minimum wage has fallen drastically in recent years also points in this direction. One word for one hundred, that's why the proposal is problematic. In the context of the amendment, Mr Zoltán Lukács, as my fellow Member, has said, our group has made the proposal, since in a very narrow circle this represents progress, their entire amendment and their absolution must be rejected. We strongly call on you to restore workers' rights in the labour code and to give them their wages and their wages. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-03-16-354	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. Then the debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to answer. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2005 CLXIV on trade. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Szatmáry Kristóf, Mengyi Roland, Imre Vas self-proposal T/3414. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Economic Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/3414/8. and T/3414/9. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3414/11. and the summary report is T/3414/12. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of 8 minutes.
u2015-03-16-355	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is T/3414. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1. The amendment of the Act was discussed at its meeting on 12 March 2015 and the Committee presented 26 reports of yes and 7 sexes, together with a summary amendment proposal. The amending proposal contains a point of the Economic Committee's proposal and a point of the Legislative Committee's own motion. The main point of the amending bill is that although the fuel station itself does not belong to the 2014 CII on the prohibition of working in the retail sector on Sundays. However, in order to facilitate the interpretation of the law, it should be stated that if a retail store in the territory of a service station does not sell fuel, the provisions of the Act prohibiting Sunday work in the retail sector should apply. As a practical example, after refueling at the gas station, you can still buy chocolate and soft drinks, for example. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: At what price?]] However, a grocery store cannot be established to circumvent the law. Please support T/3414. Bill No. 1. [[Dr. László Varga: Let us wait until the Parliament accepts it! Or let's play it.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-03-16-356	The minority opinion will now be presented in a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Lukács.
u2015-03-16-357	Thank you very much. Well, that's a proposal that doesn't make sense in its purpose, but thank God, it's not gonna do that. You are talking specifically about the fact that if there is a filling station and there is a grocery store or a retail store in the area of the station, it cannot be open on Sunday. Only during the debate in the Commission could you not explain the difference between the shops at the filling stations and the retail unit, because not only chocolates and soft drinks can be obtained in these shops, we have all been to such shops. Not one of these is practically reaching the level of a grocery store today. You can also get food, you can get chemical goods, you can get sandwiches, you can get coffee, you can get hot food. There's no way to tell the difference from that point of view. And even if there is a shop that now, let's say, works with a smaller product, I told the committee meeting that this motion, which you have now brought here and you will obviously accept, can be played out in about two minutes, because how can it be prevented that fuel station from raising its floor space by 20-30 square meters to this store, can still fit into the legal floor, put two pieces of refrigerators, three more shelves and one gondola, raise the product by 50 percent, and the grocery store is already ready. If you wanted to prevent this, we would have to list in law what could be sold at such a fuel station and what could not be sold, because from here on out, who will decide what the grocery store and what the non-meal store are. I'm sure Mr. Harrach can, but no one else in this country can decide. Moreover, you say that the retail unit that does not sell fuel cannot be open; I indicate that if the cash register of this retail unit is in the same place as the cash register of the well that sells fuel, or these cash registers are otherwise connected by computer, and the fuel that is fueled can be paid at these cash registers, you can now take this proposal, frame it and put it on the wall, because that is exactly what it will be worth. Once again, there is a proposal that you have written and that has nothing to do with real life in the world. You're talking about something, you're making a suggestion, and the world out there is doing something that has nothing to do with it. With this proposal, you will not be able to ensure that there is no weekend work in these areas. You're saying whose employees are they, by the way? Any company can agree on this case, and any company can resolve with background agreements that they can account for both the payment of fuel and the employee at any time, and otherwise this case will be avoided in two minutes. I'm not saying that the people who are avoiding this law are right, but you have brought this law before the committee with the sole purpose of closing the loopholes. I'd like to say that you're not going to close any loopholes, at most, a little bit, but you're definitely not going to close it. So again, they can't tell the difference between the shops and the grocery stores that are now in operation. They cannot prevent them from becoming a convenience store in a matter of seconds, raising the area of the shops now in operation and its product. If the fuel can be paid there, it is already in line with this legal requirement, and the problem can also be solved from the point of view of employees. [[22.50]] That is why we have said that if the purpose of this proposal is what they are talking about, then this proposal is wrong, it does not work, it is not realistic, it will not work. You have to go, you have to get to know the opinions of these commercial units, the way they operate, and then you can make suggestions to say that they also comply with this law. This proposal does not comply. One. The point of the proposal is, however, to make it more difficult for you to purchase Hungarian citizens in one place, and you should close another gate in front of them to make it even more difficult for them to obtain something they want to buy. Why this is good for you, I don't know, but you're already doing this in an obsessive way; for some reason, someone in your home has made that up, and now you're hunting these places like it's amazing. Now they've figured out how to do it at the gas station. Once again, you can figure it out - I said it at the committee meeting, and I will not repeat myself now - but this proposal is not suitable for what you are talking about, which you are not going to achieve. I'm not sad about that. I'm just saying, it doesn't make any sense. We should make life-style suggestions, we should know the way the world works, we shouldn't lock ourselves in an ivory tower, and throw suggestions around the people, because the people - now excuse me for saying this - have a lot more sense than those who write these proposals, so people want to make a living, they want to earn money, they want to support their families, and you want to make it harder for them, and they will definitely try, and I think that nobody in this case can be angry. So we will not support this proposal. You will feel free to support him, but you will achieve nothing. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-358	I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I'm asking if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government... [[Béla Glattfelder: In the end.]] At the end. All right. Thank you. [[Zoltán Lukács: In the end, because then we can't answer it! Béla Glattfelder: Behave yourself, Congressman. Zoltán Lukács: I will decide that! Just because you're State Secretary doesn't mean we're gonna fall apart.]] The designated committee did not set up a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I therefore give the floor to Mr Zsolt Becsó.
u2015-03-16-359	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This time, too, the bill is made up of three paragraphs, so the substance can be summarized relatively briefly. Although the history is very widely known, it is worth giving a brief look back. The Act prohibiting Sunday work in the retail sector entered into force on 15 March. The decision-makers wanted no one to be forced to work on Sundays against their will. European practice has a very colourful picture: while there are countries that follow more severe and stricter regulations, there are also absolute enablers. The aim of Hungary's regulations was to have a day of universal rest that families can spend together. Turning to the proposal: the aim of the proposal before us is to ensure that mixed retail and wholesale shops are treated in the same way as shops exclusively engaged in retail activities from the point of view of the opening ban on Sunday, so it becomes clear that mixed shops can only be opened five times a year on Sunday. According to the proposed amendment, the 2014 CII on the banning of work in the retail sector for the non-fuel sales business in service stations. The provisions of the Act apply, so that these shops can only be open five times a year. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that competition-neutral operations in the retail sector are open on Sunday. I ask for the support of the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-360	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr.
u2015-03-16-361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My esteemed fellow Member has just been standing on the side of the people who live on wages and salaries, saying some sentences that can be quite question-marked. Now he has taken a different approach, which was about not forcing anyone to work on Sundays. I would like to draw your attention to the words of Viktor Orbán, who, if not literally, but in his content, said: as long as on the working days of the week, i.e. on weekdays, people are unable to earn enough income for their decent livelihood, he will not support Sunday closure. If you don't remember, then start digging into the records, but if you can't find it, let me know and I'll help you, and I'll let you know what Viktor Orbán represented in this matter. So it'd be nice if they kept talking about the same thing, always saying the same thing, not once like this, once like that, because it's really people's bullshit. You know, when you make lexes - you can say now that lex metro or many other lex laws you've seen before - I'm also going to add that you probably remember when, I don't know the number exactly, but you had a strategy contract of around 60, including Tesco. Where's Tesco now, your strategic fraternity partner? I don't want to go out of the framework of the bill either, but I just mentioned that this is how you take your actions seriously in this regard. One word, like a hundred: I think that the established purchasing habits that have been burned into society, into the minds of people for decades, into their wearings, into their habits, in this way, by force, are simply not interested in the emergence of social thinking and the realisation of it, can be overwritten, but not appropriate. It's a dead idea. It's a dead thing you do. You're gonna cry and undo what you're doing right now. Once again, I would like to say to you, my fellow Member, but not only to you, to all of the pro-government Members, that you know that the 94 billion you have just spoken about, which you would say would be necessary - by the way, less - to ensure that everyone who does work on Sunday will receive a 100 percent wage supplement, with the release of a few stadiums, with some luxurious investments not being carried out, can be achieved with a calm spirit. But I can also tell you other means: offshore companies and many others in terms of resources saved and much more. To conclude, I would like to say once again, my fellow Member, that until you can live on weekdays, the income you have earned five days a week or, where appropriate, six days a week, keeping closed on Sunday is a dead idea. It's a dead idea because it takes away people's ability to get their resources, because it gives other people, employers, the opportunity to get fired, and thus makes a sacrifice to many tens of thousands of people who take away their jobs. And that is what leads to the fact that after five years of government, people who work in trade, if you look at the urban surface, earn not much more than the minimum wage, say, in a gross area of 120-130 thousand forints, and in small villages, they earn the minimum wage, you know, the minimum wage that is worth five thousand forints less than in 2010. Here I would just like to say to the Secretary of State that when he turns back to the Members, never forget that you are in service, so you do not want to take the Member to account for the fact that he dares to ask, takes courage or has an opinion. No! You're sitting in that line to answer the questions you're asking, and if you had the courage, you'd be involved in the debate, simply so that these questions can be dealt with in a fair manner, and not in the way that you're doing it, so you can take them out of your hips. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-362	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. [[23.00]]
u2015-03-16-363	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, In the last debate, which was the third, I think - and this is the fourth - I told you that you have recently appointed a Minister for Circus Affairs. Now I really understand why this happened. And the circus needs clowns. They're sitting right here. And I'm sorry if I'm saying this, but I'd like to share my experience with you today. You know, there are still people in the country who get up very early on Monday morning, because they have to let their children go, say, to school, dorms, or even go away to work, because they no longer have a job at home, and they have to go up to tens or hundreds of miles to work. At five o'clock in the morning, Kaban, there were at least 20 people standing in front of the grocery store, ignoring the fact that the store would open at six o'clock. They also went shopping for their children, their husbands at 5:00 in the morning. I mean, they would have if you hadn't stopped me from doing that. Now, honourable Members and Secretary of State, you should have been there, and the expensive good sentences that I will not recall, because you will not tolerate printing ink, how these Hungarian citizens, voters themselves, in front of the store, would have been worth listening to. You know the name of Péter Harrach, Kristófe Szatmáry, and you will know yours, Congressman Bacsó, because you are... [[Zsolt Becsó: That's my name!]] Cheers. They'll get to know you, believe me. And I'm really shocked when you're suggesting that you can't force anyone to work on Sundays in trade. And the owners, what are they, the store owners, what are they, tell me! What are they in this country? Or, say, when you say the owners can pay themselves 50 percent of the rent, do you really believe that when they write this down to you and read it to you? At least read before you know what you've been written and put into your everyday life, how this is going to work. And then they say they're gonna look at which store they're not labeled as CBA. Because if it were exposed to the gas station and every single store in this country, they would have nothing against being open or not open on Sunday. Tell me this, don't lie around here every single time. Now my fellow Member has told me how they're going to play him again. There's gonna be another law filed next week. And we're gonna clown around here, and we're gonna argue again about what else can be taken out, or what else can be regulated. Leave these Hungarians alone like a grown-up! And let's not get to the point where we won't be able to buy certain products, because the whole country will be on the same network, and they'll only be selling certain products, because, you know, it's the way in trade that the more they order, the more the entrepreneurs can get at a better price. Are we gonna get to the point where we're not gonna get any products? It's not enough that we can't go to the grocery store on Sundays now... oh, I know the next thing you know, you're gonna be obligated to make the women bake bread on Sundays. 'Cause it's next. Or I could do better than that: we'll all have to go to church on Sunday. It's worth checking out the photo posted on Facebook of what they did to one of the church entrances. You should listen to these and see what's going on in this country. And my fellow Members are right that you will withdraw these laws crying, because you will see that this cannot be done with Hungarian citizens, Hungarian voters. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-03-16-364	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Nándor Gúr has indicated that he has 38 seconds.
u2015-03-16-365	Yes, that's enough, Mr. President. My last sentence is that they should think about such things, so that if, as my fellow Member Varga said, in the country, the number of 4.3 million people will not be more than 2.2 million people who cannot earn the minimum amount of money in a given month. Then there's a lot to think about. As long as the urge to make a living is above people's heads, it's not like that that that's what you have to think about, it's to help them. That's where we should move forward. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-366	I do not see any other comment, so I give the floor to Secretary of State Béla Glattfelder, who has applied for the Fidesz timeframe.
u2015-03-16-367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on a few things. First of all, it is important to know that most of the old Member States have had a system of closing on Sundays for a very long time, and in fact, shops have never been open in a large part of the countries on Sundays. Because of their traditions, that's how it turned out. There was only one country where the ban on closing on Sunday was introduced and this was subsequently withdrawn, which was, by the way, Croatia, a new accession Member State. This was due to the introduction of a ban on Sunday closure around 2008, just when the economic crisis came and the economic crisis caused traffic to drop significantly, which led to the closure ban being finally withdrawn. By the way, I lived in Brussels for a long time, and in Brussels it worked perfectly, everyone knew exactly that Sunday... [[Gábor István Bellozó: Let's talk about gas stations! Did you live in Brussels, at the gas station, or are there no convenience stores? The president's ringing the bell.]] This is a very interesting thing, because in Belgium there are a lot of gas stations, and there are more and more gas stations where there are no shops at all, and in many places there are no gas stations, but with a self-service system. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] They pay with a credit card. So there's no store, no gas station, credit card payments. I myself experienced this several times, when I went to the airport, for example, in the process of filling up at a gas station where there was no shop, there was no gas station, at a gas station, you put your credit card in, and then, when you were loaded, then automatically, [[Gábor István Bellozó: I also bought every Sunday in GB Express!]] He took the money off the credit card from the system. [[Zoltán Lukács: How much does a seller make in Belgium?]] What is very different between Hungary and Western Europe, it seems, is that if they create a law in Western Europe, they are not looking for a way to circumvent that law; and there is no political party, not even in the ranks of the opposition, that would try to persuade citizens or businesses to circumvent the laws. No! So in a normal country, even the opposition, because that's what their oath is about - I keep the laws and keep them - encourages the law-makers to apply them as fully as possible, even if they disagreed with their adoption, their circumstances or their content. I am therefore saddened when opposition representatives say that no matter what law is passed, there will be some, and understand that there will be people who will play this legislation. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] No! I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to encourage those who apply the law, even if you did not agree with the law to comply with it. The problem is now, and the whole matter has come before us because it has become quite clear that, in part, to encourage the opposition and part of the public, there have been very strong efforts to circumvent the legislation adopted. In what areas was this particularly at risk? For example, in the case of a lot of controversial gas stations, where there have been press releases - you know these - that one or another major store network is specifically seeking gas stations, not the existing one, where petrol is sold, so that the gas station convenience store is not, but, for example, the parking lot in the gas station area, to build a shop there, specifically in order to circumvent the provisions of the law on the opening ban on Sunday. [[23.10]] Or, for example, use another provision of the law to engage in wholesale and retail trade and thus open on Sunday. [[Gábor István Bellozó: The trader wants to trade, the customer wants to buy!]] Obviously, but once the legislator decides he doesn't want them to open on Sunday, because the goal is to make sure that at least no one in the trade has to work against his will, and to do so as a first step [[Okay, this is bullshit.]] like many other European countries [[Dr. László Varga: And the factory workers, farmers?]] then it is a completely obvious legislative objective that should be reflected [[Nándor Gúr: Did you say an option? Stop talking nonsense.]] In particular, those who otherwise work in legislation. If those who have been sent here to create laws don't respect the laws, then this is chaos. So I'm asking the opposition representatives very nicely. [[Nándor Gúr: That's what you're doing! Chaos!]] to encourage citizens and entrepreneurs to comply with legislation in this case and in other cases [[Nándor Gúr: Orbán talks about something other than you!]] not to circumvent and circumvent legislation. This never ends well. The only end of this is that if you are to hear such incentives from you, then the legislative majority must create new legislation to eliminate such circumvention possibilities. [[Dr. László Varga: You've said it three times!]] That's not good. That's not good, so I'm gonna ask you to break up with this. [[Nándor Gúr: Your own faction does not believe what you say! He doesn't believe it!]] On the other hand, as regards the situation of businesses and workers in the commercial sector, I would like to say that under the MSZP government, [[Zoltán Lukács: Finally, we're here!]] the number of people employed in trade has decreased by 35,000. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: If you were not home, how do you know?]] Compared to this, the number of trade workers has increased by 20,000 since 2010. [[Zoltán Lukács: And the actions? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We had to reduce it quickly!]] I'd like to tell you that today [[Zoltán Lukács: This is really intolerable! It's really too much!]] However, the turnover of trade workers is 30 per cent per year. So in trade, people make bad money. [[Noise, constant interruptions from the benches of MSZP.]] Therefore, it is a profession that provides a particularly low income.
u2015-03-16-368	Ladies and gentlemen, Sorry to interrupt. There are five of them here, but they make so much noise. [[Zoltán Lukács: Imagine when there are ten of us.]] It's like I don't even know where we're at - a nigger's fair. Please listen normally to the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2015-03-16-369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And there are tens of thousands of unfilled jobs in trade. Just because people are reluctant to work in trade, because they have very poor working conditions, they also had to work on Sundays, and they could not make enough money. The government's objective was to significantly improve the situation of commercial workers, to relieve them of the burden of working on Sundays, and to exempt them from the burden of working on Sundays, and those who, on the days when the law otherwise allows for Sunday work, i.e. four Advent Sundays and one extraordinary day a year, or if [[Zoltán Lukács: Where will they put all that money!]] Christmas Day or New Year's Eve Sunday, it could be seven days a year, and then they'll get 100% pay. So the government is always guided by the consideration of improving the living conditions of commercial workers. [[Nándor Gúr: Talk to them!]] I think that such an objective could have been expected to be supported by a party on the left. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Next Monday I expect you before the ABC in Kaba! They'll tell you.]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-16-370	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Yes.]] Yes, Congressman Vas Imre indicates that he wishes to speak. You'll have ten minutes to comment. Here.
u2015-03-16-371	Thank you very much. I promise I'll be shorter than this. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to two things. On the one hand, in 1995, when the Horn government issued a decree exempting truck drivers from working on Sundays, heavy goods truck drivers, you did not raise these problems. It didn't say anything else either, obviously in order to facilitate Sunday transport, but indirectly exempted heavy goods truck drivers from working on Sundays. Gyula Horn was the Prime Minister then, and they did not say that the drivers would starve to death because of this, and they would not be able to carry out their transport tasks. [[Zoltán Lukács: What was it in 1820?]] The other is addressed to my fellow Member, Zoltán Lukács, who tried to interpret the bill before us. I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the interpretation of the bill before us in conjunction with Article 28 of the Fundamental Law. [[Zoltán Lukács: Definitely will!]] This corresponding article of the Fundamental Law reads as follows: [[Zoltán Lukács: I will go home and interpret it that way!]] In the course of the application of the law, because disputes are always decided in court, the texts of the legislation are interpreted primarily in accordance with their purpose and the Fundamental Law. When interpreting the Fundamental Law and legislation, it should be assumed that they serve a moral and economical purpose appropriate to common sense and the common good. I ask my fellow Member, if you interpret this bill before us, to look at it in accordance with these provisions of the Fundamental Law. [[Zoltán Lukács: I get up with it, I lie with it! With the Basic Law! It's on the nightstand.]] And then you don't come to the conclusion that you're gonna get played, because obviously this is not gonna stand up in court. [[Zoltán Lukács: Draw a line pattern into it!]] Thank you very much for your attention and please support the bill with your vote. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-03-16-372	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain agricultural aid laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The submission was made in T/3412. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Committee on Agriculture as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate T/3412/8. and T/3412/9. was given to them. Report by the Committee on Sustainable Development on the detailed debate T/3412/7. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3412/11. and the summary report is T/3412/12. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I therefore give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-373	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 12 March 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3412 on the amendment of certain agricultural aid laws. Bill No. 1. During the Committee's meeting, the members unanimously supported the amendments to the Committee on Agriculture of a content and technical nature by 22 votes in favour, not by votes in favour and without abstentions. This bill concerns certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development as well as fisheries aid and other measures (Article XVII of 2007) By amending the Act, it introduces the institution of the host declaration in the case of aid where a prepayment is made and the aid is settled at the end of the period with the customers. The amendment shall also ensure that the eligible area of land user eligible for the aid is eligible for aid in the ecological target areas eligible for the application of the green component of area payments. In addition, this amendment is necessary to sync the single agricultural customer registration system of the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development. In addition to the resolution on the amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend further, which was supported by 23 yes, 6 non-voting and 1 abstention. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 24 yes and 7 abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-16-374	I will ask the author if he wishes to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] No one's reporting. No rapporteur was set up by the designated committee. I therefore give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, who will present the minority opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development in connection with the debate. [[23.20]]
u2015-03-16-375	Overall, the Committee on Sustainable Development wanted to examine this bill in two respects. The first aspect was the ecological state of the Carpathian Basin, the chances of preserving its biodiversity in the light of the change in legislation. The second aspect was the goal of achieving social justice and sustainable agriculture with the principle of sustainable development. During the debate in committee, we also discussed two amendments. I remained in a minority opinion on the fact that, in my view, this legislation cannot serve the purposes which our committee has examined. The most important part of this was what was said at the committee meeting, and according to the house rules, it is only possible to represent it in plenary, and this is clearly the tendency that the percentage definition and facilitations of compensation support clearly provide substantial assistance to larger farmers, and therefore the amendment, which the committee rejected, would have been aimed at allowing smaller farmers, who, according to the Prime Minister, are constantly referred to as target groups by the government, to obtain a higher amount of support, even in the event of minor damage. The proposed legislative relief should then be granted up to 300 hectares and the possibility of compensation payments exceeding 300 hectares should be discarded. Obviously, this has also had issues related to EU legislation, which we have considered, but at the same time we wanted it not to go through in its current form. Secondly, the ambition to preserve biodiversity and the natural heritage of our country was the cornerstone of the proposal. Technically, by selecting ecological target areas, the aid will provide producers with additional benefits that they do not deserve. The approach of the common agricultural policy was to make use of additional 30 per cent aid with a single application when greenings are implemented for farmers over 15 hectares, which means that areas with less favourable conditions or less land-use yield, in the lowland areas, say, former river beds, inland water risk areas can be excluded from production and used for other, more extensive profit, reeds, wildlife, wildlife management and so on. With the regulation proposed by the government, the possibility of this will not be created, it wants to attach virtually existing ecological target areas, so it does not wish to persuade farmers to implement greener farming with a more ecological thinking, which, in my opinion, is unacceptable, but I have remained in a minority with this opinion. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-376	Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I therefore give the floor to Mr Gábor István Harangozó.
u2015-03-16-377	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, this proposal contains basically technical proposals following a change in EU legislation. Therefore, the vast majority of these are not too big a problem, so I would like to talk primarily about this part of the proposal, not even that part of it, but rather the part of it that is not included in this proposal. In relation to the part of our group, we have a serious objection that the agricultural support system itself does not take advantage of the opportunities created by legislative changes in Hungary. The biggest problem with the whole agricultural support scheme, in particular the area payment scheme, is that it does not make any difference according to how many people a company employs. At the time, this whole area payment scheme was designed to provide an adequate source of income for the countryside so that it could provide as many people as possible with income in the countryside and thus contribute as much as possible to the preservation capacity of the countryside. What we now need to see in Hungary is that the villages are empty, there is no job, there is no means of earning income, in virtually most of the settlements alone, where there is a place to work, where income can be generated and acquired, are activities linked to agriculture linked to land. Nevertheless, in most villages, we see that the area is in the hands of some large farmers called family, where they can make huge profits with basically industrial crop production, in which, with the employment of up to three people per thousand hectares, the right activity can be carried out, so that these families can make huge profits with the basic activity, and all of this is accompanied by huge area aid. Today, this support system ensures that anyone who has the appropriate agricultural skills, practices and has been able to collect a sufficient amount of land does not create jobs, not only does not contribute to the survival of the countryside, but that this support contributes to, say, not every three years, but also every year, replacing their motor vehicle park and going skiing and vacationing twice in winter or acquiring any kind of goods, since such large incomes can be obtained while living in villages and villages without work. A new EU aid cycle will be launched this year, which would have allowed us to link area payments to employment. It would have allowed small family farmers, indeed small family farmers, to receive greater area payments, and then to give medium-sized farmers an average and particularly large farmers less support. After all, those who are large enough to obtain a profit of sufficient size efficiency are completely unnecessary to provide income-generating support there. For example, France took advantage of this opportunity, but Hungary did not make use of it. We still haven't been able to explain why we didn't. However, it would also have been possible to reduce subsidies above a certain size of estate in such a way that the cost of wages could be deducted from this reduction. This would have made sense, too, because in this case agricultural enterprises, farms where there are a large number of employees, would not have lost area payments, and we would have encouraged farmers who today employ 3-5 people per thousand ha of industrial crop production, for example, to employ significantly more people and then keep their subsidies; but Hungary did not want to live with this either. I would therefore like to take this opportunity in this debate, too, to say that the Hungarian Government has missed a huge opportunity. I have to say that this is not only a mistake, but it is also a sin, which the Hungarian government has done with the EU agricultural support system, because instead of continuing to work in the countryside to make as many people as possible to make a living as possible as a result of the reform of the support system, the more people can get regular income from the ground, from agriculture, instead we have to see that this Hungarian government has not been interested and that it has left this support system virtually unchanged for the expansion of employment. That is why I could say that this technical amendment could be supported, but the whole system itself is as bad as it is, and that is why we cannot be excited about this amendment in itself. [[23.30]] We would also like to express our wish that, at the first opportunity, when this system can be touched again, the Hungarian government should touch it for the livelihood of people living in the countryside. If you don't do this, then, of course, if we have the opportunity, we will use it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-03-16-378	Secretary of State István Nagy wishes to comment. You have the floor.
u2015-03-16-379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologise for joining the debate, but I would just like to discuss this right here at the beginning and to discuss it with the Member. Although it is not a subject of the proposal, it has been said that what is more important is what is left out of it, but it has raised issues, my fellow Member, which have already been discussed by the Hungarian Parliament. Yes, there are differences between us, and let us take the area payments system as a basis, because, as you said, they could virtually support the amendment proposal, because it is indeed technical and involves technical changes following European legislation. It must also be said that we are bringing it to this House in order to support farmers' business processes and their facilitation. But what is the decisive difference between you and us in the debate on the introduction of area payments? You said that there are industrial crops in the countryside, that some farmers have the land, that it makes a huge profit, and that millions of aid from SAPS is here, while our villages are struggling with unemployment. I must say to you - and you obviously outlined that you wanted to introduce SAPS as an occupational basis. Yeah, well, the only thing you're not telling me is that if we had introduced it, we would have failed the great estate system. The fundamental difference between the two of us - I might say - is that the firm decision of the current Hungarian government is that we can change the size of the land estate to 80 percent small economy and 20 percent large plant. There can be no other way, except by indicating with SAPS support that we no longer intend to provide any additional funding for aid over 1200 hectares. You have the right to suggest that you can help with employment. Yes, the Hungarian government has the means to promote employment, namely that it supports both the fruit and vegetable sectors and the livestock sector by means of special tools, because they help to boost employment, which helps people in the countryside to get to work as much as possible. And the reason why this SAPS system, introduced by the Hungarian government, is fairer is because it can break the monotony that the establishment of the grand estate system would have meant. There would be no other means for the Hungarian government to support, promote and induce as many people as possible to live from the ground, than the fact that it introduced degression in SAPS, which occurs on a land-based basis. I know this may be a big difference and a very painful thing, but I think that we can achieve two things: to reduce the large estate system, to create the 80-20 ratio that we think is healthy, even for my fellow Member of Sallai, in order to maintain ecological diversity, and then to support more families, to treat the environment more evenly, and to achieve with special support that we can help employment, to keep people living in the countryside, to promote rural survival. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-03-16-380	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-03-16-381	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. I would like to start by saying that, at the committee meeting where we debated this law, we were once again tried to be involved in a very unworthy legislative process, including opposition. As an agricultural amendment, the amendment which then significantly rewritten the draft was included, which we did not have the opportunity to get to know quite simply. For many times now, I ask the Government with great respect for the opportunity to give Members the opportunity to know what they want under their own names and then to vote and be submitted, especially when it is not just a matter of spelling and minor clarifications, but has changed the original proposal substantially on some points. I consider this extremely unworthy, and I think that mocking the work of Members has been this attitude for many times, and we have been given serious promises about the level of prime minister towards the end of the previous term, that this attitude will change and that the work of the opposition will be taken seriously in this respect. And that is simply not an argument for us, what was said at the Committee on Agriculture, when I said this criticism that if we knew the TAB meeting, we, the Members of the Committee on Agriculture, would not complain. Well, the fact that the TAB works in chaos and I don't think it fits into a normal legislative process is not an argument for me at all, but we in the Committee on Agriculture, I think we also rightly demand a normal session. The two amendments I tabled were very brief. I know that harmonisation in the European Union would require the adoption of this amendment, since I am also trying to introduce a kind of degression in the event of damage to farmers. Rather, I wished this to be a kind of signal that it would be good for this logic to be taken over by the government in all areas of the legislation and in every piece of agricultural legislation, because I think that the common good, as a basic concept, would have a place and a role to play in agricultural legislation. Rather, it was meant to be such a sign with this amendment motion. Otherwise, overall, we are talking about technical clarifications in the draft before us, a significant part of which is really necessary for farmers to have access to subsidies in a normal and timely manner, and at some levels it may even make the process simpler. As I have already explained in advance, Jobbik will be able to support it, but I have some comments here on the grants. It would be good to increase the flow of information on aid towards farmers. I know that the Chamber of Agriculture would be primarily responsible for this, but in practice I see that you are not taking advantage of this opportunity, or you are not taking advantage of this opportunity or right, I do not know how to put it. It would be good for this information not only to be obtained by farmers and those close to the government who are usually highlighted at this time. I have something to say about job creation, too. Agriculture is an area where the number of jobs has fallen rapidly, and this is closely linked to the preservation of the countryside. I am very sad when, for example, in my presentation at the Committee on Agriculture, where I have tried to bring your national rural strategy to this House, they argue to what extent agriculture has contributed to the country's GDP in a given year. It is very welcome, and we also support the increase in this number, and in fact it has increased to an unexpected extent in recent years, let this be the case in the future, but let us not confuse this with what eight million Hungarian citizens living in the countryside will make a living or more jobs in the countryside, why young people or less will not leave this country today. So let's not confuse this with the fact that the 10-15 thousand producers we can count as participants in GDP growth live better, live well and produce more. It's really nice, but it's not the same thing. It is also worrying in the area of subsidies that, although the new scheme is degressive in the case of area payments, it is far from as much as our country would otherwise have had the opportunity to do. That's what Jobbik always said, because I think until we clarify the basic concepts of what small and medium plants are, we're gonna talk about it side by side. So it sounds very nice to have government communication that the proportion of large farms should be reduced to 20% for the benefit of family farms, this is really nice and supportive, we just haven't discussed yet among ourselves what it means to have a family farmer, what is a small business, what is a large business, and all of this can be traced back to the problem of having to adopt and discuss a plant law here in the House before it is passed. [[23.40]] This, by the way, was included in the original legislative agenda, which I remember in this logical order in 2010, and József Ángyán did not ask for it by accident at the time, even as a pro-government representative on the government, because that would be the logical order. And then we would not be speaking side by side on a number of issues, including in the area of subsidies, because I am not happy if you claim that 80% of the family farmers are the target in Hungary, if you are talking about 800 and 1000 hectares of pro-government family farms. Then they are not the same concepts, and we will never clarify what we agree on or what we do not agree on. It is also a problem with subsidies, while we are talking about the issue of pocket contracts at the level of communication, or the case of foreign land users who are using the areas in Hungary in full legal terms today, and who leave the country with a grant of billions of forints, in this case with area support, is not used here, it is not spent here, it is not invested here, and jobs are created only in the most minimal cases. I would add that I am talking specifically about those who, unfortunately, can legally carry out this activity here. We wanted the government to be able to adopt laws and negotiate with Brussels in such a way that we could create a barrier to the growth of these businesses, we call them, and we could keep these resources at home as much as possible. That's all I wanted to say about the law. So, in summary of the technical clarifications that it contains, we will be able to support most of it. Therefore, the Jobbik faction will vote in favour of this draft, but I would very much like to see the problems outlined, if not in the framework of this law, because it is not suitable for this, but sooner or later we will get an answer, because there is a great lack of the mentioned plant law, among other things. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-382	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2015-03-16-383	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After the minority opinion, I will now state our party's position. First of all, I would like to refer back to the words of Mr Secretary of State, who began by apologizing for his participation in the debate. Therefore, no apologies are required, and praise is due. I will be very curious to know if, when the FM comes into the NFA law on national parking lands tomorrow, it will participate in the debate on whether or not a man will come here. I'm gonna ask you this without knowing who it's gonna be. It is therefore entirely commendable that Mr Secretary of State is taking part in the debate, and we would expect this from the members of the government on a regular basis. Allow me one more short reaction before I give you my party's point of view. He mentioned the 80% small-scale ratio. That sounds so good, I like to listen to it, whether the Prime Minister says it or the representatives of the FM, but the problem is that the numbers and the facts are different. Similarly, in recent years, 74.1 percent of the total area payments reached 10 percent, 10.5% of the second 10 percent, and all other 15 percent of the claimants reached 80 percent. That's what's completely contrary to what you've told me. He said they're cutting down the big economy, the big banks. Well, if you look at the list - the K-Monitor website has brought it down - who receive a lot of support, you can see that 4.1 billion is the interest of Bólyi Zrt., Csányi Sándor, 2.3 billion is the property of Lajta-Hanság, Simicska-Nyerges interest, 1.3 billion is the South Pest County Agricultural Zrt., 1.3 billion is the interest of Dalmandi Zrt., also of Sándor Csányi, 1.2 billion is the interest of Sárvári Agricultural Zrt. I'm not going to continue. So far, there's no parallel to the real facts that you've been telling me. By the way, I'm happy to talk about my dreams, what I want, but it's just a different result from the governance of the last five years, and it's something to be faced with. In the same way, it is necessary to face the fact that if you talk about strengthening family farms and tell my MSZP colleague that you have introduced a degressive support system, because they wanted to support the small ones, while at the same time putting the first degree of degressivity above a thousand hectares, what small farms we are talking about. I suppose, Mr Secretary of State, the small family farms were not meant to be carried out in thousands of hectares, and this was the result of the regulation. And now I'm going to get to what I've been given the floor for. I would have liked to have supported this proposal, tabled two amendments and wanted it to go over with the amendment. I do not want to repeat the things advanced in the general debate; in fact, the withdrawal of public debt from the national support part should be fully supported, which is something that we would vote in favour of with a very good heart. I didn't get any meaningful answers to the additional data, even though I told you repeatedly that the MVH didn't use the existing data, why we needed new data, what came up as an additional reason. This would tend to abstain if it were possible to vote separately. Then comes the compensation, which makes me understand that they represent the interests of farmers, because it is in the interests of farmers to obtain it. That's what the insurance system is all about. However, this is already a regulation where it could be implemented if the committee approved the degressive background and it could be said that someone should not be involved, because we do not want them to be involved in this because they are large and the efficiency resulting from the size of the plant helps them to be profitable. And the little ones should be tried. So here again, it is a little bit that the regulation is not going in the direction that the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister regularly says. I must tell you frankly, I understand the opinion of my fellow Members that, in the interests of farmers, they say that the concept of a virtual ecological target area will help farmers, indeed, it will help because it will not have an obligation to create these areas that the CAP would have expected. It is not the representative of the farmer's interest, but the man who is fighting for Hungary's natural values and landscape management that he was needed. Mr Secretary of State is also aware of the fact that intensive cultivation contributes to a multitude of areas of poor potential, so that we are guaranteed that in two out of three years it is not profitable to produce there. Nevertheless, this system does not try to change this, but it creates the possibility of this virtual ecological area, which we, I tell you frankly, consider to be a villain, because this is an assassination of Hungary's natural values. I understand the view that it is in the interests of farmers that there is no need to do anything about it. But let us add that the amendment, which I have also tabled, is about the possibility for any family farmer up to 300 hectares to have the opportunity, as the national would like, to create a virtual area, but once again, above 300 hectares, where he is once again above the family's economic size, it should not be there. For this reason, we will not support you, I ask for your understanding of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-03-16-384	I'm asking if anyone would like to comment in the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, the debate will be closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. István Nagy: Yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. István Nagy State Secretary.
u2015-03-16-385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I thank my fellow Members for their constructive attitude and contributions, which means these laws of a technical nature, and let me say a few preparatory thoughts when I want to express my detailed answer. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar and Mr Sallai R. Benedek have also agreed a little to the development of land law, land policy and rural strategy. Let me begin by answering first to Zoltán Magyar, who misses the development of the rural strategy. I have to say, technically, it would be self-conceived if we took a picture of the situation now, because it's a process. I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Mr R. Benedict, that we should be asked to do so, or that we should be asked to do so. At the first moment, 80:20 can't form. We need to see where we started. We need to see if the regulators we're putting in place are helping this to develop. And if we are honest with ourselves, then we must say yes. But it can't develop immediately. The estates that have been formed are defined for several decades in advance, but we know very well as soon as the contracts expire, we are cutting them up, precisely in order for the 80:20 to develop. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, mentioned the size that we consider. It's in the law: 300 hectares per person. I think it's a guarantee that a family can make a living. The size of the estates we're imagining? I'll be honest with you, if you ask me, then I'd say 60 and 100 acres should be plenty enough to give as many people as possible, as many families as possible, access to the area from which we can ensure his livelihood. [[23.50]] I come from the east, from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Everyone who owned 50 acres was already a big owner. We said 50 in the moon, but we know it's between 25 and 30. So that already helped and ensured a family's livelihood. But we can't immediately, so you can't take it out of the legislation, you can't take the situation out of the moment we're in. The only way to do that is to look at the process that's going on. That is why I ask you to be patient with examining the rural strategy, because this is not a good moment, because the processes are taking place now. We need to see the results of the processes by 2020 where we are going. We are only fair if we look at the process of getting there. Against pocket contracts, may I say to my fellow Member that what is legally used is not a pocket contract. And it's very difficult to act with legal force, because we live in a state of law. It is very difficult to explain in the European Union, but also in Hungary, if we change an acquired right with a law. That would have very serious consequences. So, unfortunately, we have to bear that in the course of compensation, in the course of justice, actions have taken place in which foreigners legally use and cultivate land in Hungary. We must strive to buy these lands. We must strive to create financial constructs, to put bank loans at the disposal of the land buyers, so that they may be able to buy back these territories from these elderly foreigners, once with Hungarian or Hungarian descendants. Let's look at the specifics that have been raised, even in relation to the ecological area. In this law, we want to ensure that greening conditions can be met without disproportionate costs by those who do not or are difficult to produce ecologically important areas in a relatively small area, but which are used for their own use. Mr Sallai raised the fact that, in most cases, the landscapes in question are only a few hundred, perhaps a few thousand square meters. This does not solve the ecological needs of large farms producing intensive methods in a particularly large ploughing area, as they should present tens or hundreds of thousands of square metres of ecological land, even assuming a thousand hectares of plowing. What is an even bigger problem, and it actually makes this difficult, is that it is contrary to the 1307/2013 Regulation, since there is no authorisation for national legislation in relation to the maximum number of ecological areas. With regard to both amendments to the Insurance Act and the Risk Management Act, I have to say that the damage is a damage to everyone regardless of the size of the estate. Our aim is not to pursue property control policy with damage or to establish estate regulation. I think that all we can do in this is to represent the interests of farmers, and if there is such damage, let us help you with that. This is what the creation of ice de-damaging in Hungary will do, so that we can draw a net over us and free the whole country. This is also what this proposal is for the House to provide adequate compensation for their legitimate claims, whether small farmers, small farmers or large-scale producers. I ask you to vote on the bill before you tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-03-16-386	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Congressman László György Lukács applied for a speech after today's agenda:. National Rescue Service for every village day! Here's to you, private health event insurance. I'll give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-03-16-387	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the year, the Ministry of Human Resources published the 5/2006 rescue report. Draft amending the EYM Regulation. So far, this seems to be a rather depressing start within these walls, but the subject is already more interesting if we look at the reason for the amendment of the regulation. The regulation will remove the chair from private rescuers who provide health insurance for the events. In doing so, the state pulls out the legs of several smaller companies, which employ many healthcare workers in second and third jobs, and they are either family or half-family businesses themselves. So, this is the kind of company that pulls the ground out of and takes a living from a simple regulation amendment. But in order to better understand the problem, first you have to look at what is the health insurance of events. Health insurance for private or community events is mandatory, however we do not know what the director has to take care of. The fact of the insurance must therefore be notified to the rescue authority. Earlier, according to the legislation still in force, OMSZ, the National Ambulance Service, will act on health insurance for public events, on national holidays and on the preparation of outstanding events. However, from now on, and soon, under a new decree, OMSZ will act, so the National Ambulance Service will be obliged to perform the task of riding sports, motor sports, outdoor, multi-site events, open-air festivals, so in every place where there are the meatiest snacks, and this will mean about 200-250 events per year, which will be included in their volume. But what's the problem with that, if there's even a problem? And in my opinion, there is. The primary concern is that healthcare workers who have already worked for extra time and money will lose the extra opportunity that they had previously been given private rescue. However, rescue workers are not exactly the most paid workers, not exactly running State Secretarys or luxury fork workers. For them, the benefits for the work done are a very important source of livelihood, whether they are nurses, doctors or drivers. The other problem, and I'm sure there's truth in that too, could be the reason for the extension itself. The problem, i.e. the reason for the extension, is that the state, from its own sources, seems to be unable or unwilling to solve the unresolved problems of the National Rescue Service for years. So he decided to use the private sphere to do so. In view of this, the lack of funds will be replaced at the expense of private insurance providers by the fact that they only include events that may have been provided by private providers in the past in the context of medically possible events that the OMSZ could provide. The essence of this is that the State cannot involve other sources than the budget, so it has to obtain services from the market, and the acquisition of the market can be achieved with the levy on the activities of the otherwise adequate private service providers in all technical conditions, with the closure of the largest volume of events. So you don't have to spend any more money from the budget on ambulances, rescue station development, don't have to give money for asset development, you just have to get a mandatory market. That seems to be happening. In order to clarify the situation, I asked the Minister responsible for the change with a written question, where I asked the above questions, and I barely got an answer. However, I was told a surprise. The OMSZ organisation's budget is, in their view, stable and appropriate for safe operation. On the other hand, the reality is a constant problem with the rapid deterioration of vehicles due to mileage, and even though new cars are arriving, it can no longer exceed the number of dropouts. In many places the ambulance still doesn't arrive in normal time, some where it doesn't arrive at all in 15 minutes, people remain unattended. Or, for example, we can remember that rural ambulances are being sent to Budapest. As can be seen, the government's claim is not credible and the budgetary resources are not sufficient to adequately finance the activity and is therefore amending the regulation. So the questions remain. Does this amendment of the regulation serve the interests of the OMSZ? Does the National Rescue Service even have the capacity for this? I mean, we've already had enough pressure on the emergency services' cars and units. Will the private sector, which employs health workers for extra money, become impossible? I wonder what will happen to his devices, because they have an ambulance, an ambulance, a moving medical car? What do we do now, private rescue? What's next, state rescue? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]] [[0.00]]
u2015-03-16-388	After the day, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech entitled. The canning factory in Gyöngyös for the sake of its small-scale producers. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-389	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The last debate was just an agricultural law, and we heard big words about how the government wants to represent the interests of family farmers and how it wants to help labour-intensive sectors such as the fruit and vegetables sectors. Compared to this, more and more sad stories are coming to light about the cases that may occur in Hungary with producers who do indeed deliver to companies who do not keep their promises and do not pay for them. This also happened in Gyöngyös, where Csépány és Társai Kft. As a processing plant, it damaged 72 producers by processing and accepting their products, but refused to pay for them. We've had more information about the Kft. their owners were aware that they would not be able to pay for this. Farmers were injured by some 300 million forints, as I have already mentioned, farmers with an interest in fruit and vegetable production, who, by the way, have contacted several times and in several ways the region, the parliamentary representative of the region - pro-government, of course - they have sought out the specialist wallet, several government actors, but unfortunately they have not received any assistance in any form. By the way, they did nothing but what so many family farmers have done since the change of regime, i.e. worked hard, day and night to do what they did, otherwise in a very good quality, and at the end they were badly fooled, and did not get the minimum for their product that they could support their families at all, and that would have been their job anyway. At present, these people are there, because they have no prospects of organizing a group of dissidents abroad and even trying to get along with their remaining machines abroad, because they have simply received no help at home, as I said. By the way, as a result of the liquidation, the company's assets have already been sold out, as far as I know, only the establishment remains, and the sad fact is that these 72 companies have not yet received any income or any revenue from what this company otherwise belongs to them. As I have already mentioned, the government roads have been routed in every way, and so they turned to the opposition in their last despair. They know, too, they are not naive people, especially after so many slaps, that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP government is not known to achieve results as opposition representatives, but they feel that the country-world must know that such cases can happen in Hungary today, and that this can remain without any distortion or consequences in relation to those affected. That is why I am asking the government what kind of assistance they can expect in this particular case. What the government is planning to do in order to prevent problems like this from happening in the future, it is not possible to destroy ever again working, honestly, Hungarian families doing their jobs with such a mass and so much; otherwise, they are now visible in hindsight, visible and predictable ways by the management of the company, that they are likely not to be able to pay for these suppliers. So what changes of legislation can we expect from the government to avoid such tragedies? Of course, the period of commissioners and government commissioners of accountability that were still in great fashion at the time of the change of government - although I think we could fit a number of such accountability commissioners - has now gone out, but I suggest that if this institution were to be set up, your governance, similar problems during your period would be explored, and there would be plenty to explore. A Jobbik government coming in 2018 at the latest, I believe, must be among its first tasks to investigate such cases, even because in many cases like this, it has been revealed that government, political assistance, without cover, could not have been reached to such an extent and could not have been harmed so many people. So I ask the Government that if, as I see it, the farmers concerned are not honoured verbally about answering these points, at least in writing, I demand on their behalf that they answer how such a thing can happen today in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-03-16-390	To speak after the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs asked for a statement. What does the Hungarian nation want, or are the demands of the 12 points right now? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-391	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to line up at 12 points, because it has not lost its validity, its popularity, because the noble aim, the majority of the demands, has remained unchanged since then. A kind of eternal measure of national independence, social well-being and freedom is how much of the demands have been realised. Let's see how the lines of János Garay's poem cover the Hungarian reality of the idus of March 2015:, The spoken verb was embodied: and people, independence, constitution and freedom in our Hungarian country are no longer old, the poet wished. Let us see, then, what Petőfi and the handful of young radicals and the reformer nobles who provided them with their political support held to their salvation, and what the situation now looks like. We wish the freedom of the press, the abolition of censorship. Since Udo Ulfkotte, former editor of Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, it is no secret how mainstream politicians, secret services and capital control the mass media, how they lie on every possible wavelength day and night, do not have any illusions here in Hungary. Responsible Ministry in Budapest. The key word here is "responsible." It's a strange and incomprehensible word in Hungaria, a country that has no consequences, where only the hardworking little people bear responsibility, while the gentlemen always get away with everything. An annual assembly in Pest. Let's not be unfair, let's not look for a knot, we can definitely check one of the 12 points. Equality before the law in civil and religious terms. Unfortunately, we cannot speak of true equality in a society cut from a chasm of faults, where there are always more equals in the form of brother-in-law coma, slutty, close to the fire. National police. Let me refer here to the Calvary of the Hungarian Guard. After the government had virtually withdrawn from many settlements and abandoned its condemned citizens, there were brave citizens who believed that our prehistoric right was self-defense. The state attitude towards the Guard faithfully reflects the nature of the failure to achieve point 5. It's a common burden. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. In the 18th century, tax exemption was the cornerstone of noble privilege. CHAPTER XXI The central point of the century's financial power global dictatorship is the inviolability of multinational companies, the deity of profit. While Hungarian small entrepreneurs are being bullied to death, a multi HUF 30 million will be granted state aid for each new job they create. Abolition of tenure. Instead of being a landlord, feudal conditions are built, in our ancient villages condemned to depopulation, in poverty, there are great estates of foreign landlords, and instead of garden-Hungary, there are servants-Hungary in the countryside. Jury, representation based on equality. While the 2006 conceptual lawsuits were quick to make false convictions, the pribes who hunted patriots who built a white barricade from the letters of freedom and those who gave the command to throw their eyes at us can still laugh at us. National bank. A year and a half ago, in the final debate of the MNB bill, did the two-thirds of the pro-government mamelukhada hear the warning of Jobbik? Do you understand that they will give up the independence of the domestic central bank when it is placed under the European Central Bank? The military must swear on the constitution, do not take the Hungarian soldiers abroad, take the foreigners away from us. Do we know what the Israeli air force, Zroa Haávir Vehahalal, was doing in the Hungarian airspace in the spring of 2010. Have you read the 10th point printed in Lander's printery against the satanic psychopaths of the Islamic State Hungarian soldiers ready to be conducted by Gucci-ridikulous politicians? Political prisoners should be released. Well, once again, let's not exaggerate, political prisoners do not suffer in our little country, silence, character murder and existential execution are much more EU-compliant than the doh kazamats. [[0.10]] Union, Union, Point 12 last demanded the unification of Transylvania and Hungary. Where are we from here? Where are we from the implementation of the European model of autonomy? What was the opinion of the editor-in-chief of the weekly paper, which functions as a fidesz mouthpiece? He wrote that the veto to be applied on the issue of Transylvanian autonomy will be decisive for the Hungarians' chances of survival. So it is no exaggeration to say that the relationship with the veto will show in white who is faithful not only in empty platitudes but also in action to his nation and country, and who is speaking with any knowledge or honey, in fact, is a cheap traitor to the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you've got a shambles verdict. There is no excuse, there is no rational explanation why in 2005 Romania's unconditional accession to the EU had to be voted slavishly for oranges and carnations. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You can see that there is still much to be done before the 12 points are fulfilled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-03-16-392	Mr Mihály Witzmann asked for a speech after the next agenda:. Fortification tourism at Lake Balaton. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-393	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Tourism, as one of the engines of the domestic economy, has been doing very well in recent years. According to the World Tourism Organization, Hungary's tourist performance is significantly higher than the world average. Today, about half a million jobs in Hungary depend directly on tourism, and the sector takes its share of the national economy for some HUF 2100 billion. This is also joyful because not so long ago, in 2009, we heard about the deep-flying of the sector. By analysing last year's data, it is clear that Hungarian tourism was able to overachieve the results of 2013 as well, what is more, the sector can have another record year behind it. This also applies to the area of Lake Balaton, where in 2014 the number of guests showed a 2.7 percent increase compared to the previous year. This has happened despite the fact that the weather conditions in 2014 were much less favourable than in 2013. In 2009, less than a quarter of the Hungarian population, less than 25 percent of the Hungarian population could afford to travel for one or two nights. Travel-related consumption was around HUF 237 billion, which was 19 percent lower than the 2008 data a year earlier. The sector started to recover slowly in 2010-2011. In 2011, the population already spent 269 billion forints on domestic tourism. 2012 resulted in further improvements, but the real breakthrough was made in 2013. At that time, a total of 8.9 million foreign and domestic guests spent 5.3 percent more nights in commercial accommodations than in 2012. The situation was even better than Lake Balaton, where the number of guest nights increased by about 9.1 percent. This trend can also be seen from the increase in tourist tax revenues in coastal settlements in my district - Balatonvilágos, Siófok, Zamárdi, Szántód, Balatonföldvár, Balatonszárszó or Balatonszemes. In 2014, almost 40,000 more people chose Lake Balaton as a destination than a year earlier. Last year 1.4 million guests spent 4.8 million guest nights in the commercial hotels of Lake Balaton, where 38 thousand more travelers were hosted and the number of guest nights increased by 88 thousand. Boosting domestic demand has been greatly supported by government measures such as the launch of the Elizabeth programme or the introduction of the SZÉP card. With the result of the last year, they were most satisfied in the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton, where they waited for the guests with high quality programs, and where they focused not only on the summer high season, but also on other periods. By now, the profession is not talking about a season extension that has become clumsy over the last decade, but is trying to achieve new seasons in the spring and autumn with various marketing actions. Fortunately, there is no shortage of exemplary initiatives at Lake Balaton. Proposals from the New Széchenyi Plan have helped to improve quality in the services of many companies over the past four years. Excellent results can be seen in particular in the development of accommodation and attractions. In view of global tourism trends, there is a way to further develop one of the most attractive areas in Hungary, mainly in terms of opportunities for active recreation. As an example of the importance and quality of cycling tourism around Lake Balaton, the German publication collecting Europe's most beautiful cycling routes listed the cycling route around the lake as one of the 20 most beautiful on the continent. Since the launch of the Erzsébet programme and the introduction of the SZÉP card, referred to as the engine of Hungarian tourism in 2011, almost 185 billion HUF has flowed to businesses and in 2014 the commercial accommodations were paid a total of HUF 15.9 billion with SZÉP card. The increase in domestic guest traffic also confirms the strengthening of the domestic economy, and traffic figures show that, thanks to the reduction of overhead costs or credible measures, there is an increasing amount of money left in households, so that people can spend more on rest. Ladies and gentlemen, The increase in the performance of tourism has a key role to play in the overall domestic economy, since it also has a significant impact on the growth of other sectors and benefits from the creation of new jobs. That is why I would like to take this opportunity, in addition to expressing thanks, to continue to call for the active involvement of the government and the professional organisations involved in the development of tourism in order to further support and strengthen the sector. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-03-16-394	After the next agenda, Mr Zsolt Becsó spoke with the title "Helping with job creation in East Nógrád." I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2015-03-16-395	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, From the perspective of the development opportunities of the coming years, all the settlements of East Nógrád, including Salgótarján, Bátonyterenye and Pásztó cities, are at the door of historic opportunities. Thanks to the government's decision, the municipality of Salgótarján had an indicative source of HUF 9.2 billion in its planning powers and HUF 41 billion in the planning powers of the municipality of Nógrád county. It is a welcome step forward in the government's support policy that the less-favoured areas, including the county of Nógrád, receive more specific support than the more developed regions. The indicative framework in Nógrád county is therefore the highest, but also in absolute terms, more than the limits of the counties of Baranya, Csongrád, Fejér, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Komárom-Esztergom, Tolna, Vas and Zala. The positive approach was also taken for county-righted cities, since Salgótarján's indicative framework is also the highest per capita. The operational programme for territorial and urban development, in which Nógrád county, including Salgótarján, received this great opportunity, is primarily aimed at decentralised economic development, thereby increasing employment. The strategic objective is twofold: on the one hand, to provide local conditions for economic recovery and for increasing employment levels and, on the other hand, to ensure the local conditions necessary to improve business-friendly urban development, quality of life and social cohesion. I am aware that the efficient use of the quasi-centralised funding framework is a great opportunity for us, but much more resources, opportunities and support will be needed to speed up the process of catching up in the county of Nógrád, including Salgótarján. For example, an opportunity, a support aimed at bringing together the Civic Alliance Forum - Civic Co-operation Public Use Foundation, the FM, the Hungarian food chains and the Héhalom settlements, as well as five villages in Nógrád with local relations. This cooperation can greatly help create jobs for sub-regional communities and start-up food production efforts. This includes the fact that, according to the strategic cooperation agreement concluded with the FM, the CÖF-CECA has started to cooperate in the development of local small and family businesses. They plan to set up producer-selling sites, local community building. The idea of the Foundation will enable young people to be kept in place and create jobs for families. I would like to make the use and use of existing MNB, FHB lending forms as widely as possible and to encourage the start-up of local small and family businesses. They created the logistics of locally produced plant and animal products, as well as food products, by contract with the Hungarian food chains, ensuring the purchase of the contract. With the assistance of the FM, the requirements of the Nébih rules for enterprises and the adaptation of products will be handed over to users in written form; the necessary training for start-ups, the description of the production technology, the availability of technical equipment will be carried out by the volunteers of the Foundation. [[0.20]] The guarantee for the supply and purchase of goods can be the market for food chains with local authorities and businesses and for local public and child catering. The role of the Civil Foundation and the community working with it would be to coordinate and control the organisation system, which is largely voluntary. The government's value-creating public work programme could be of great help, as it would be possible for public workers to be transferred to start-up or development small and family businesses for a certain period of time under contract by the local authorities. I believe that the efforts launched by the CÖF and affecting several settlements in East Nógrád will serve to complete the national public good. Voluntary civil work can contribute to GDP growth. The association of the five settlements in Héhalmon and its surroundings in Nógrád county can be a fine example of the rural development and country building programme, which is implemented by bringing civil society together. Thank you for listening.
u2015-03-16-396	Member István Ikotity asked to speak after the next agenda:,. There is little good news for the paramedics. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-397	Thank you. Dear House, Once again, I would like to speak for the workers of the National Rescue Service and for the safety of Hungarian citizens, because there is a great silence around the construction and renovation of the rescue stations. There is only one certainty that if the necessary investments are not made in time, the costs incurred will be borne by the National Rescue Service budget. But it is also a question of how to divide the number of ambulances that are falling between the new rescue stations and the ones that are already in existence so that they are available everywhere. The reason for the question is that at the end of last year another hundred ambulances had to be permanently stopped, because they could no longer comply with the more relaxed 13-year-old age limit, so they didn't meet them either. So now a total of 704 ambulances can serve. In comparison, almost a thousand ambulances were available 15 years ago, i.e. nearly 300 more than today, but even in 2010, more than 70 ambulances were in service today. However, it should also be borne in mind that there are 236 ambulances in the current stock that are over 10 years old and should no longer be used in accordance with previous plans. But, as we know, the age standards of cars were finally not intended to be approached by the government in the European Union, so instead of getting the right number of new cars, these old vehicles are still forced to be used in the ambulance service. Of course, it is important not only how many ambulances are on duty, how many ambulances are in the country, but also that in the event of any technical failure, which, let's face it, is 10-13 years of continuous service, for vehicles running hundreds of thousands of kilometres, it is not unlikely at all how much backup ambulances are available. Unfortunately, the situation has not improved at all in this area either. Last year, the actual reserve was between 17 percent and 20 percent, instead of which today we can only count on a reserve of between 11 percent and 13 percent. It can be seen that fewer and fewer and older organised ambulances have fewer and fewer emergency ambulances available. We can only trust that 10-13-year-old cars with multiple running performances of cars belonging to other government, ministry and Parliamentary Guards will not fail and will not need replacements, as there is ever more doubt whether there will be enough reserves. In addition, attention should also be paid to rescue workers, since the importance and difficulty of their work is not everyday. Yet, like other health workers, they cannot expect a fair financial appreciation. At present, there is no plan for this to change in any way, while it is in our common interest that well-educated and respected workers, not overworked workers, and those who want to work for other careers, do so. In fact, hardworking employees, whose work is extremely stressful and emotional, do not even receive the allowance for it. However, according to international standards, according to the expert heard in the last trial in Pécs, the health risk associated with their work is such that the allowance is actually due to rescue workers. As a first step, instead of years of litigation, the earned allowance should be given to all concerned, and then adequate working conditions should be provided, such as at least regular work clothes, and if they are given adequate work clothes. It is also necessary to ensure that the shortage of professionals is eliminated, to give the workers in the emergency services a perspective so that they do not have to look forward to the payment of Slovak ambulances, and then I mentioned only one neighbouring country, not Western Europe, where paramedics move in exchange for more than six times the salary here, who want to see a change after a multi-annual struggle. Sadly, there is no future for rescue workers, no hope for government, because they believe that everything is okay and that everything is getting better. Yet, those who risk their own lives and their integrity on alert see this differently, but only because it is their everyday reality, and not some kind of pink government press conference. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-03-16-398	Mr Sallai R. Benedek has now applied for an after-the-date address with the title "The Tisza Great Plain" once again. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-03-16-399	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At a time when I thought that a well-intentioned proposal might even be supported by the government, I announced here in Parliament that I would like to convince the governing parties to set up an Alföld ad hoc committee, drawing attention to what I mentioned earlier today from a European Union statistics, Eurostat data, which included North Hungary, North Great Plain and South Great Plain as one of the worst in 273 European Union regions, not to mention South Transdanubia as well. According to Kunó Klebelsberg, the problem of the Tisza Plain has already begun at the Turkish occupation, and the development and economic development of the Western parts of the country has already been established. After that, for centuries, the central periphery conflict in the country was virtually strengthened, and the eastern parts of the country had a clear disadvantage to all historical events, to all national development and practically to the development policy of the last 25 years. Practically, as it can be seen not only from Eurostat data, but also from the data of the Hungarian KSH, these regions now have the weakest incomes in the country, the worst are employment figures, the least individual businesses, the least newly built houses, and this would obviously justify a government effort, perhaps a total parliamentary effort to catch up with these regions. What I wanted to do with my proposal is to create the Alföld ad hoc committee, perhaps in development policy we will try to prefer the developments that are trying to create jobs here, try to put individual businesses, self-employed small individual businesses in this position, and try to create an economic background to strengthen the opportunities for social development here that require labour, which creates jobs. I have said this in a commission, I have said it here in Parliament, and I have tried to go through as many counties as possible to convince individual Members of Parliament that this is necessary by the leaders and residents who live there. Unfortunately, this failed, and the inclusion of the series of objects could not have been realized. This is such a big failure for me because I thought that after the first Hungarian Parliament at the time of the change of regime had already wanted to create an Alföld programme on the initiative of a member of its then MDF parliamentary group and tried to achieve a complex development in the Great Plain, I thought it was a good background for him. I thought that the further development of the Vásárhelyi plan, which, a good decade ago, was practically trying to fix flood security across governments, the opportunities for landscape management, the potential of ecotourism, is a good background to touch this. [[0.30]] A number of programmes and regional development plans have dealt with the problems of these areas, their employment background, the problems of falling layers, as well as the problem of preserving natural values, flood safety, that I felt that it was right to assume that, having been honoured by the Hungarian society, I would almost say that it had been unappreciably highly supported by the governing parties, and that a multitude of individual constituencies chose to provide support for such an initiative. To tell you the truth, it is a great sadness for me that this complex proposal for the Great Plain, which has already been published in the proposals amending this year's budget, by refurbishing the main roads, by setting up access roads, by setting up municipal institutions, with the possibility of better access to public services - I thought that there might be some parliamentary agreement that we should move in this direction. It would not have been such an outstanding task, with development policy and European Union resources, to pay a little more attention to it, but unfortunately, this was not possible, so now I feel that the Great Plain will be left alone again, and if your servant does not have to do so himself, sir, he will have to deal with his own efforts, so that the government and individual representatives do not want to do it on merit, they do not want to help the local communities with additional resources. In addition to my sadness, I wish the Great Plain a lot of success, but I very much hope that soon there will be a government in Hungary that will be important in helping these regions of the country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-400	To speak after the last agenda, Ildikó Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied:. What is going on at MÁV? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-03-16-401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to talk about one of my favourite topics, the MÁV, and I would like to begin with a written question tabled on 17 July 2014 that said: according to government communication, they are a strategic partner of the MÁV and are committed to developing the railway company. At that time, the Minister said that the MÁV was a loss-making undertaking earlier, which caused problems rather than pleasure, but the transformations carried out by the company's management resulted in results, and therefore they continue to increase the service level of passenger traffic and the development of freight traffic. It should be noted that on 15 May 2013, the Government introduced the surcharges on the various flights. In the written question, I explained what a passenger could experience on a railway flight today, as he is confronted with: railway wagons are dirty, the daily delays have become common, regardless of the current weather. And the public safety situation is tragic, especially on late-night flights. In winter, passengers get cold, snow falls, rain falls, and in summer they get hot, even when air conditioning works on a single flight. Many flights are overcrowded, so many have to travel 100 kilometres standing up. Then I received the reply from the Ministry to this written question that, after the introduction of the replacement ticket, the government received nearly one billion HUF in revenue, from which the railway company implemented its car repair program in its own workshop. Then, in 2014, I received a statement in July that 51 fast - train rooms were renovated - fast trains - and then 152 cars were renovated in suburban transport, 65 on the sidelines. This is about 10 percent of the existing stock. To this day, I do not know why, if the rurals pay the extra fee, the suburban cars are being renovated with this amount. It is very important that I asked this question in 2014, and the Minister wrote to one more written question that public transport is necessary for Hungary's balanced economic and social functioning. Once again, I can say that it would be good for government actors to sometimes mix with people and experience what is going on in everyday life or what is happening, let's say, in Hungarian State Railways. In January 2015, the 1st class ceased on fast and fast trains. It was noticeable that class 1 cars were taken off overnight, so that the MÁV website could be received for weeks after that as information that there was still a Class 1 compartment on these flights. Passengers were confronted when they wanted to get into class 1 and it turned out that they didn't. To this day, I couldn't get an answer to why Class 1 cars had been eliminated. Perhaps because people are already so poor that they cannot pay the price of this 1st class, or they are so dependent on intercity flights due to the introduction of the surcharge that the 1st class on fast and fast trains in the eastern region has lost its meaning. But there's something else to talk about. There is a huge shortage of workers in the railway industry. I have received information from the employees that about a thousand ticket managers are missing in the country because of the humiliating working conditions, because of the lack of public security, because of the low salary, and these are not appreciated every day by the Hungarian state. They live their lives with backpacks, work 12 to 14 hours a day, and they have to be available at all times. A job like this, you can't raise a child and start a family. Ticket managers leave the country in bulk, and we have received information that this year the government has to plan a flight thinner because they are no longer able to carry out their duties at the MÁV. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-03-16-402	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume the session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 0.30 a.m.]]
