u2015-06-01-0	Good afternoon, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. The 36th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be the representatives of Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. I also welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. Today, as usual, we will begin our work on Monday with speeches before the agenda. Then the questions will take place from noon to 2:30, and then about 1:30 to 3:30, the hour for immediate questions and answers will take place. Finally, the Parliament will conclude its work today with speeches after the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, He applied for a pre-meeting speech: Mrs Bernadett Szél, from the LMP Group, with the title of the public service. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-01-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The May Other is a political assistance service for civil servants, civil servants and people working in employment, who were expelled from their jobs by the government and pushed into public work. We've encountered a variety of life stories, and there was one thing in common with these life stories, the fact that these people have suffered a significant wage loss. There was a municipal civil servant who, when government offices were established, was dismissed, but he still needed someone to post, keep records, perform administrative tasks, so he was reinstated in public work. But there is also a government official who used to work as a civil servant, and when he was transferred to the government office, his wages, along with thousands of employees, decreased significantly from 1 May. This man who came to us, his wages were reduced by 60,000 forints. The May Other Politics warned the government in the debate of the Legal Status Act that it could not do this to the Hungarian people, but you did it, and here is the evidence that it was transferred from one place to another as a government official, previously working as a civil servant, and it is working the same amount and earning 60,000 forints less. So aside from the fact that our legal aid service has been found by a lot of people who have done it on public work, who should not have been there, because they had a regular job, we have also met with a number of other stories that confirm to us that what we told you earlier that would happen is now happening, and what we see is that there has been a significant wage reduction in the public sector. Well, it's never been a rosy situation before, to put it mildly. On the one hand, as a result of the continuous restructuring, there is about a picture of the fact that wages have remained at the level or have fallen significantly, or that Hungarians can work for much lower wages in the public sector as public workers. There are 220,000 people who have the same salary for the eighth year, the same salary, the same salary, but there are 200,000 people who earn in the public sector at the minimum. That is why I do not find the title of my speech before the agenda excessive at all, the fact that you have pushed these people into a line of servants, because it cannot be that we look from government to government at the fact that they are constantly walking through these people, even though they are the ones who are doing jobs without which this country would not be able to function. This whole story is all the more outrageous, because if we look at the budget plan for next year, we can see that it is worth 500 billion forints and can be discovered on the basis of luxury expenses. That is about what it would take to fully meet the demands of the public sector. But you, as always, are saving up on people, because Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister, has said that this is the direction; he is going abroad to look at how little money we work for, compared to how well-trained we are. It is no wonder that the people who have been eliminated are now on the streets, because it is unacceptable that there is no regular wage increase, and it is equally unacceptable for the government to share and conquer its policy. You can see that they share money, they play out employees against each other, they have implemented their Orbán model on the csurran-drop, so I could put it that way. Enough of this, we need a decent, comprehensive and inclusive wage increase. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, If you had been at the social worker protest on Friday, you could have met the social worker working in the kitchen who said that he, as a technical staff, wouldn't get a penny of what was promised to the others, who, say, provide the elderly people where he works. So how can you even touch a system like that, that there are people inside a work collective who get some pay supplements, and there are technical workers who get nothing? ! If there is no food, there is no medicine, and there is no clean clothes, because you, say, forget about the workers in charge of catering and transportation, what kind of care will there be in that workplace collective? ! That's what you're doing, you're sneaking around, you're giving me away, but basically you need a full, comprehensive wage increase for everyone, that's what the LMP wants. In any case, the 2016 budget will provide an opportunity to achieve this. We have tabled amendments to this House, to those staff who support education, to those who work in higher education, to those who work in cultural and cultural fields, to health, to social workers, to civil servants, so we have thought of a lot of people who have been forgotten for a long time. We stand up for these people because we know there's a limit to being unfair, and now we're really out of words. The only thing that we need here is for you to take seriously the fact that you are in this country's government at the moment and raise wages in the public sector. Stop, please, squandering the money and giving these people their fair and decent wages, because without them, this country doesn't work! Thank you.
u2015-06-01-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Zoltán Kovács responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have now heard a speech before the agenda on a subject which is already on the agenda, since the budget is now being discussed by Parliament. But despite all this, I am happy to answer to the congresswoman, because what you said is simply not true. Not on a drop, but on a watch, since 2010 since the Orbán government was established, it was necessary to preserve wages for the first time. Think of where an IMF agreement has been concluded, whether Greece or Romania, where wages have fallen in the public sector. We kept this wage, and we started to develop it further in terms of career models. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett says no to his head.]] As much as the congresswoman shakes her head, that's right. Think about it, from 2013 onwards, the teacher career model, during which wages increased by 60 percent and then increased by 10 percentage points per year until 2018. That's hundreds of billions of forints a year in the budget. If you look at it, the new career model for armed forces has been completed, and in this respect both the police and our soldiers have been involved since 1 July of this year. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: People in the social sector were asked about!]] They will receive an overall wage increase of HUF 44 billion. This can be seen by individuals, since it is important for the government to help those working there with careers in the service. I would also like to say that not only in the case of the defence, the police, teachers, but also in the public administration, the development of a career model has begun. In this budget we are discussing right now, there is HUF 25 billion for the launch of the career model from 1 January 2016. If you call it a drip, you're wrong, I call it a very different one, it's a concrete, significant wage increase. Say, in the district offices you mentioned, there will be a 30-40 percent tangible wage increase from 1 July 2016, which, as I have already mentioned, is included in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Just last week, the government decided on the social sphere, a HUF 7.6 billion bonus, and... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is the other half?]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bangón, I'm sure you'll press a button, don't yell at me, be kind, and then you'll tell me what you have to say. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] I know it's his habit. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and thinks that this speaker can be disturbed [[Statement from the lines of the MSZP: The meeting is criticised by the Secretary of State! The president's ringing again.]] But it doesn't bother me, I just want to say it might bother other people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to continue. So the social sphere receives a HUF 7.6 billion bonus [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What's enough for?]] And it costs HUF 15.3 billion next year. There is an extra HUF 2 billion in the budget in the cradle, and for those in the public sector, as you mentioned, public works will also receive HUF 70 billion more by 2016. [[11.10]] As regards the transformation of public administration, management salaries have indeed decreased in the administration sector. Two thousand persons were transferred to the regional administration, where 1800 people received a 5 percentage point increase in salaries on 1 April. You can calculate the impact of this, by the way, for the whole year. As far as the management sector is concerned, we have simplified the state structure that was in the territorial administration, so there is no need for so many management posts. A leader is more responsible, will do more work, and in this respect they will obviously be entitled to a department head wage by restructuring the administrative system. But the career model that will start next year, and I could also mention health care: although I am not a health politician, I would like to say that a HUF 100,000 scholarship system has been set up for residents, which we will keep, and we will continue to do the same in 2016. As early as 2012-13, nurses also received a wage increase, depending on the country's options, as did young doctors and residents who passed the exam. Overall, the government has spent hundreds of billions of HUF on wage increases, not to mention the conversion of sja, which has also reduced the income tax rate. And keeping inflation low, the public sector is not in a line of servants, its potential expands over the coming period. I ask you to take note of this, even if you have something else to say. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The public sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-01-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Földi applied for a pre-meeting speech from the KDNP Group with the title of moderate energy prices, proven results. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2012, the European Commission carried out a detailed analysis of the characteristics and processes of the internal energy market and carried out a country-by-country comprehensive energy market analysis. In this analysis, it was found that, taking into account the purchasing power of households, domestic customers of Bulgaria, Hungary, Sweden and Slovenia paid the highest gas prices in 2011 and that, in the case of electricity, Slovakia and Hungary, a high consumer price exceeded the EU average. I believe that, and with this respect, the honourable opposition representatives must also agree that this situation has been unsustainable. The issue of the nation as a whole called for a consistent positive change in some 4 million households. This is why the government has decided to pursue a policy of reducing costs, which, since the announcement, has led to a significant reduction in public consumers' energy accounts and to successful economic processes with the recovery of consumption. There is no better evidence of this than Eurostat's summary published on 27 May 2015, which found that in Hungary, in the second half of last year, domestic electricity prices decreased by 9.9 percent and gas prices decreased by 13 percent compared to a year earlier. Domestic consumers thus paid an average of HUF 3557 for 100 kilowatts of electricity and HUF 1088 for 100 kilowatts of natural gas. While energy costs have increased across the EU, domestic energy prices have decreased in Hungary. The Hungarian family's budget represents a significant part of the cost of overhead, and for many they are a burden that is difficult to manage. It is therefore important to maintain the results of the several-step cuts in the costs, as the reductions have allowed retail consumers to save hundreds of billions of forints since 1 January 2013. In the case of electricity bills and natural gas, more is left with families by reducing the prices of consumers and district heating. I believe that, in addition to the increase in public employment and the government's assistance to foreign exchange-credit debtors, the reduction in overhead costs is one of the most important factors that has a positive impact on the safety of livelihoods. The reduction of rent is not a simple political issue, but a social policy issue, which contributes to strengthening the social security of Hungarian households and families by reducing the cost of living. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-06-01-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your suggestion, because it gives us the opportunity again to tell you the starting point. Between 2002 and 2010, during the MSZP-SZDSZ governance [[Grumble in the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]] gas has increased by five times and electricity prices have doubled. However, I am very pleased to read the most recent summary of Eurostat, which confirms the success and effectiveness of the government's social and public policy launched in 2010. [[Continuous noise and clarity in the benches of the LMP. The president's ringing the bell.]] In view of the significant share of Hungarian families' expenses and the difficult burden for many, the government initiated the freezing of overhead costs in the Széll Kálmán plan in order to strengthen social security and prevent further price increases. In this context, the price of district heating, previously established by the municipalities, has been subject to ministerial powers. The government then implemented a comprehensive reduction in energy demand in three rounds. For an average retail consumer, the reduction in end-user prices for natural gas results in about 55 thousand forints, while for electricity it saves about 30 thousand forints per year. In other words, due to the energy reductions implemented over the past period, Hungarian families receive an annual discount of approximately HUF 85 thousand in their energy bills compared to the prices in 2012. The savings to be realised by district heating consumers are different due to different district heating prices per municipality, but at the same time equal in scale to the savings of natural gas consumers. In addition, as of 1 July 2013, fees for water and sewer services, waste transport, chimney sweeps and LPG were reduced, resulting in the total annual savings of an average consumer due to reductions in overhead costs of HUF 100,000. In addition to the reduction in gas prices in December 2010, the so-called price freeze, before that, resulted in an additional saving of approximately HUF 100 thousand per year for an average consumer compared to the price regulation in force at the beginning of 2010. As a result, consumers have saved more than HUF 1000 billion in recent years. As a result of the energy reductions implemented, the level of energy prices paid by Hungarian households also improved significantly in a European comparison. Thanks to the measures taken, Hungary is almost the cheapest in the European Union both in terms of electricity and gas in nominal terms. The electricity is only in Bulgaria and the gas in Romania costs less. Taking into account purchasing power, the domestic price of electricity is the same as the average Union price, while the price of natural gas is 11 percent lower. This effect also has important consequences. According to the latest statistics, the availability of service providers has decreased by about 20 percent over recent years. An unnamed provider told me that their outstanding amounts are equal to the European average. [[Zoltán Lukács: Unnamed Service Provider?]] The government intends to preserve the results of the multi-stage reduction. To this end, the strengthening of the state's role in the public utilities sector has started in Hungary. [[Zoltán Lukács: You've been talking about this for two hours.]] 25 years after the change of regime, the Government established the First National Public Service Provider, the results of the reduction of the overhead can be made permanent with its efficient and low-cost operation. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You only said that a hundred times. Zoltán Lukács: We do not deal with unnamed service providers. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] The First National Public Service Provider Hungary participates in the universal gas service at the base of the Main Gas. [[11.20]] The Government's aim is to ensure that ENKS will also enter the electricity and district heating market. To this end, last week the Government signed a letter of intent on the purchase of the universal electricity supply business of ELMÚ-Émás with the German RWE. In addition, the government will ensure that district heating services held by local authorities are in the public interest to maintain additional values for the reduction of costs, the supply of goods available to the general public and competitive prices for industry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the MSZP Group, with the title of the debt, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-01-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sixth year, you have governed, promised grass, wood, flowers, everything that exists, and then instead, instead of radical tax cuts, you have introduced countless new taxes, and in addition to these wage increases, practically your employees have given birth to poverty, promised 1 million new tax-paying jobs - and we know what you have done: nothing. They owe people money. They owe, they owe people. But not just any level. You don't lie to the ether, you don't lie to the TV cameras or the posters. No! Like a radical increase in the minimum wage; you know, what caused extra burdens for both the employer and the employee. No, we need to build a world where people benefit from what you do. I only have two items for you: employment, unemployment and wages. These two are because they always say how rosy the situation is in Hungary. Look, after the global financial and economic crisis in 2008, 3 million 748 thousand people were employed in 2009 according to the HCSO. In 2014 - the annual figures for closed years - 4 million 101 thousand. Yeah, it looks like he's 353,000 more employed. Well, not 450 grand, like what they keep saying on the media. But how does this 353 thousand people fit together? I would like to tell you that there are 160,000 more people in the public sector in 2014 than in 2009. The people who have fled abroad, the economic refugees, you know, for whom you have not provided work, well, hundreds of thousands of them are included in the Hungarian statistics as employees, although you chased them away, you have to earn your living elsewhere. They've turned 8 hours into 4 hours of employment, and the statistics are based on 4 hours as well as 8 hours. Unemployment? It has decreased, of course, over five years, from 2009 to 2014 by 75,000 people. Why? In many cases, of course, this is purely employment, because poor people are unable to carry on normal work and do so for hunger. Or the people who were in the labour register, and then they were forced to flee abroad, because you did nothing for them. These factors, which cannot be missed, and that you are pushing people out of the system, do not show a minimum of human resources, have narrowed the supply period for people who have lost their jobs for three months. One word, like a hundred, within the framework of public employment, what did they do? What they did was that instead of the previous 60 200 HUF public employment wage, they gave 47,000 HUF for the first time. My fellow Member, Mr Secretary of State of Czomba, even spoke about the fact that three out of 73 thousand forints can be raised with honor. So, the point is, it doesn't matter if you're 47 or 73, you're hiring the public for a price of food and reduced wages. One third reduced the purchasing power of their income. In addition, they do not ensure that they are able to carry out value creation work and, in addition, do not grant them the same right. What's on the pay stage? Well, what we see is that 70 percent and nearly 70 percent of people in Hungary earn under the average wage. We see that the poverty of workers is growing in Hungary. We see that there are more than 2.2 million people working under the minimum living standards. We see that today's minimum wage is worth 5 thousand forints less than in 2010. We see scissors opening between the minimum wage and the minimum wage. The minimum wage is 24,000 forints lower than the current minimum salary of 92-93 thousand forints. We see that in public employment this Orbán government, the Orbán government that was in the previous cycle, did not change the salary base in the 38 650 HUF public sector by just one penny. What we see is that people on low income levels are being exploited by you and you're not taking it seriously. Well, one word, like a hundred, besides all that, buddies and pereputty are getting rich, taking dividends. Some took 800 million, while 225 people received 157 million forints as wages that year. That's what you have to stop! Look, the only thing I'm asking of you is what the MSZP says. On the one hand, fulfill their promises, create 1 million new jobs in the economy, and, on the other hand, pursue a wage policy, say it as a national, a national wage policy, the result of which is that people are better off, people can make a fairer living out of their income. That's what they do instead of the hit-and-run budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-01-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister of State Sándor Czomba responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let us begin by saying that if the Member mentions debt, you created this debt thickly between 2002 and 2010. They doubled the number of unemployed, increased from 230,000 to 460,000. You know, he says it would have been better if we hadn't done anything. Well, we didn't do anything, we did a lot of things, but if you hadn't done anything, I believe that the vast majority of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people would have been much better off. Let's line up on these figures. Although I do not want to burden the people sitting here and listening to us, it is very important because there have been a number of songs that have been spoken that are not true in a noble simplicity. The congressman says we're sending the registered people out of the system. This is not the case at all, because if it were, the number of economically active people would not continue to increase and would not be at a 23-year peak. Our goal is not to look at people, but to try to help them not on zero forints, not on 22 800 forints of aid, but until the competition sphere is present in areas where there is a major problem, through state-funded, supported and assisted employment. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that, in relation to wages, I would like to tell the honourable Member that while in your time the purchasing value of earnings decreased by 4.4 percent between 2007 and 2010, the minimum wage increased by 43 percent in gross terms between 2010 and 2014 and, in recent months, by 5 to 5.5 percent in real earnings. And obviously they wanted to misunderstand how to raise three children out of 73,500 forints. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this speech...
u2015-06-01-12	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, for a moment. Dear Members of the MSZP, Listen to what the Secretary of State has to say. I would like to draw your attention, as a notary, to Congressman Nándor Gúr, to the fact that you must be particularly aware that you cannot yell at me as a notary. You are a serial notary at this moment, and you have been able to make this speech with my permission. So please don't yell at me. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Then I'll yell.]] Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-01-13	Thank you very much. I would like to stress that you should look at the statistics on how many people were at zero per cent between 2000 and 2010 for families with three children, so how many families were out of care and on 28 thousand forints. Compared to this, our government has done that, through family tax incentives, if you are in public employment, your net net is 52 thousand forints in normal operation, you will receive 64 thousand forints for two children, 74 thousand forints for three children. I have called attention to the fact that our system is paying childbearing in the context of public employment and receives more than the minimum wage. It's not whether it's possible to make a living, because it's an endless debate, and it doesn't make any sense from this point of view, and it doesn't make any sense to compare the one-seek minimum living with the minimum wage of a family model. [[11.30]] But if you have done so, my fellow Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2002 the minimum wage was the closest to the minimum wage during the first Orbán government, not by accident, at 92 percent, because we raised the minimum wage at the same time, doubled it. From there, you beat him to 70 percent by 2010. Congratulations on that. We are now at a point where we have managed to increase to 74 percent, so the two numbers are constantly approaching each other. But there is no doubt that there is much to be done even in this matter. You said figures. I would like to give three figures for the whole years 2010 and 14 so that it is not possible to talk about seasonal effects. The number of people employed in these four years will increase to 370 thousand, from 75,000 to 175,000, so 100,000 people, and the people working abroad that KSH sees - because it hasn't seen people over a year, it hasn't seen them in 25 years. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbály: Be a part of the community work, Mr. Secretary of State.]] So don't get him mixed up in the data here. - and there's a $50,000 increase. Let's do it. 100 plus 50 grand, that's 150,000, let's subtract it from the 370,000. So my statement is that, over the past four years, in Hungary, in the primary labour market, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Foreigners are involved!]] 220,000 new jobs have been created. [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. Coming up, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,]] If you'd given us the helm we're standing on, our problem would have been much less. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-06-01-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the Group of Jobbik, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the amendment of the Treaty of Accession. I give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-01-15	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, there has been a big debate about the exit or non-exit from Jobbik and the related better position. The debate was triggered by an immediate question to the Prime Minister at this time last week, where I told him what Jobbik's position was. Then the Prime Minister told us what Jobbik's position was. Since the two did not fit, they did not match, a debate emerged from this. At the same time, I think it is a good thing that this has happened, and it is very important that this has happened, because I, my party, have been given the opportunity to tell ourselves, for you, the country and the whole of Europe, clearly what is the Jobbik's position on the issue of the Union. Jobbik does not want Hungary to leave the European Union. Jobbik would like the Treaty of Accession to be amended and a referendum on the issue of the European Union. This is Jobbik's program. If you look at our 2010 or 2014 program, you'll find this there. By the way, this is also the program of British Prime Minister David Cameron, who was recently re-elected: amendment of the Treaty of Accession and holding a referendum. I have only said this because I would like to say that this position is a legitimate position politically, professionally, in the interests of Hungary, and is not, therefore, unprecedented in Europe. In order to discredit, disprove, you will look for moments, declarations and an ominous flag burning from early 2012. So I suggest we rewind the thread of time a little bit and see what happened, what happened here in Hungary at the beginning of 2012. At the time, the European Commission launched a infringement procedure against Hungary and indirectly against the Hungarian government and the freezing of cohesion funds. There was a very tense, very nervous, very outraged atmosphere in Hungarian public life, and at this psychological moment we organized a demonstration in front of the European Commission's headquarters here, a demonstration that really caught fire with an EU flag. [[Noise, clarity. Happy István's intervention. Crying from the pro-government benches: Is it on fire? Dr. László Kács: Self-inflammatory!]] It burned. Indeed, we are willing to do this. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] "It would be a shame to deny it, and I say it now, even though I say it today, as much as they smile at it, I say today that psychologically and emotionally at that moment it was indeed a bearable and legitimate outburst of anger on Jobbik's part. I say this because, in these moments, not only did we have such feelings, but I very much hope that, for example, our fellow Member, István Happy, was also upset about the European Union, but I think that even L. Simon László was upset. [[Happy István: You've never seen me burn a flag!]] In fact, I think you were there in the peace procession that we are not going to be a colony! He marched behind a banner in downtown Budapest, and several peace-going leaders themselves said that yes, the possibility of leaving the European Union should be considered. At that time, this did not count as a thought that would not have come into the minds of many people. But not just among our thoughts, Mr.Orbán said that in the early 2000s. In fact, last year, László Kövér, the second man of Fidesz, who said that we might have to consider backing out of this community, so to speak. So in making such statements about a changing and constantly conflicting European Union, I think there is nothing wrong with it. But what's the point? The point is not these statements and not even a flag burning, because Jobbik has never burned a flag before and never after, and would never burn a nation's flag. The point is what's in a program. I have told you once before, I will say once again that Jobbik's programme includes the need to amend the Treaty of Accession and hold a referendum on the European Union. That's the point. The fact that, in Hungary, we believe, behind the concept of a Europe of nations, against the concept of European united states should be a debate on this, too. You have a different opinion, we are open to debate, and we believe that the amendment of the Treaty of Accession is indeed a responsible position. I do not know how you imagine the recovery of the Hungarian food industry, the Hungarian processing industry, under the current conditions - for example, it would be good if L. Simon László responded; I think he will answer my question - or even the protection of the Hungarian land. So if your question or your dilemma is whether there is a difference between Fidesz and Jobbik's position in the European Union, then I say that my answer is yes, yes. And there is a very important and very clear difference between us. We, by proposing an amendment to the Treaty of Accession, say that we believe that, as it is now, it is not right, that this needs to be changed. For several reasons that I have already said, the Hungarian food industry and manufacturing industry are perhaps the most clear evidence of this. And you think that everything is good, as it is, the Treaty of Accession is okay, that there must be discussions within it, but that the Treaty of Accession does not need to be amended. I think our position is responsible, and I think our position is in Hungary's interest, and your position is not responsible and it is not in the interests of Hungary. Let's discuss this, and let's not talk about it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-01-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, We are pleased that Jobbik finally said that it does not want Hungary to leave the European Union. At the same time, we are stunned by the constant change of colour of Jobbik. This isn't Damascus road anymore... [[Intercoms, noise from Jobbik's benches.]] This is no longer a Damascus road - they shout well, fellow Members - but rather a role in Cameleon. [[Lajos Kepli's intervention.]] I was quite shocked to hear him say that he was on fire at your event, as the honourable Member said: there was a flag on fire. What euphemism this is, please respectfully. I remembered the statement by the former editor-in-chief of Népszabadság when the cyclist who was injured in the accident caused by him died, in his statement that, unfortunately, the cyclist who had me in his accident had died. He didn't say the one I ran over, the one I hit. He didn't take responsibility. [[Dóra Dúró: He told us to do it!]] Just like you don't take responsibility. [[Gábor Vona: I told you we'd do it!]] You're saying you're on fire with a flag. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches.]] Someone must have kept a magnifying glass over it, sunburned through it, and it lit up. Shame and shame! Once and for all, tell me what your position is. I listened to you this morning on Kossuth Radio, Congressman. On Kossuth Radio, when the reporter asked you this morning if you were ashamed of this shameful act, you said you were not ashamed. [[Csaba Gyüre, István Szávay's intervention. There's a lot of noise from Jobbik's benches. Gábor Vona: That's what I'm saying right now!]] That flag wasn't on fire. That flag was burned by you. [[There's constant noise, interruptions from Jobbik's benches. István Apáti's intervention. The president's ringing the bell.]] And in vain you say... I listened to you, I listened to you quietly. [[Loránt Violin: 'Cause you didn't know what to say! István Apáti: Let's hear it!]] Honourable Congressman, You say you wouldn't burn a nation's flag. You burned the flag of a community that is a full member of Hungary. I warn you that on 12 April 2003 [[Dóra Dúró: Institutional system!]] 83.76 percent of the participants in the referendum voted in favour [[István Szávay's intervention. Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: For you have lied! Noise.]] Hungary has made a clear belief in EU accession [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: How many confectioners are there in Vienna?]] and belonging to the European Community. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-06-01-18	Fellow Members!
u2015-06-01-19	However, please record what the congressman yelled at, and what he said afterwards began by saying, "b" and it continued, "supplied." So, please, this is what you've been yelling at... [[It's a lot of noise. Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Don't lie!]] Please hear me out, ladies and gentlemen.
u2015-06-01-20	My fellow Jobbikos Members, my fellow Members, Savay and Gyure [[István Apáti: Father!]] Please give the Secretary of State the opportunity...
u2015-06-01-21	They've been yelling for about 30 seconds, fellow Members.
u2015-06-01-22	[[To István Apáti:]] You too, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-23	Obviously, I hope that you are suffering from remorse and have finally seen what a shameful act it is to burn the flag of the European Community, the flag of the community to which we belong. [[Forebod Novak: Should the fifty-six embarrass themselves that they have cut down the star?]] And you claim that you do not want to leave this community either, Mr President. [[11.40]] I am therefore asking you to finally give a fair definition of the matter in which you intend to amend the Accession Treaty. Tell us exactly what sections of the Treaty of Accession you want to amend, yet what you want to hold a referendum on, because we have no idea. [[Noise, continuous interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including István Apáti: That's the problem!]] That way, we don't have a common basis for debate. Honourable Congressman, In his last speech last week, Hungary's Prime Minister pointed out that Hungary's membership of the European Community is a fundamental interest and a fundamental value. That's why we Hungarian Democrats [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] We do not want to leave the European Union or NATO. For us, this community is the European community, the family in which we thank you, we find our place, and we think that this is in the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian economy, Hungarian society and Hungarian culture. [[Noise, constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Doesn't mean for a moment that we don't have any arguments, that, if necessary, We would rightly not speak out in the European Community, and we would not continue to express our national interests within the European Community. Of course, the development of your food industry is also a key issue for the Hungarian government, and the development of the Hungarian food industry in the EU's development period ahead would be unthinkable without the support of the Union. Everything around us is fundamentally changing, since the milk quota has now been abolished, and the sugar quota will soon be abolished. It is in Hungary's fundamental interest to protect this country from illegal food entering the country. This is what the control system, which we introduced this year, serves. This is also served by reducing the VAT on pigmeat, so all its criticisms and criticisms from this point of view are unfounded. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Time!]] Do not be double-faced, tell the truth, do you want to be a member of the European Alliance, and are you ashamed of the flag burning or not? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Complaining from Jobbik's ranks: No! Gábor Vona: I gave my opinion on both.]]
u2015-06-01-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. He applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Fidesz Group: Mr Tamás Vargha was a hero. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XX During the wars of the century, this nation has made a great sacrifice, and here we are thinking not only of the heroes who died in battle, but also of the people who stayed at home, the broken families, the widows, and the children, many of whom could not have known their father. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian approaches the ministerial seat.]] All settlements had heroic deaths, so the village communities would have set up monuments even if they had not been bound by a 1917 Ministry decree, and they remembered the death of their heroic dead when the last Sunday of May was the 14th of 1924. The law hasn't made it a Sunday for heroes. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel L. Simon László is consulted.]] The day of the heroes was still held in May 1945, and it was no longer a memorial day, nor was there any formal commemorations until the regime changed. For this reason, in 2001 the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian nation, declared the last Sunday of the last month of each year as a memorial to the Hungarian heroes. We owe a lot to our heroic dead. First of all, we are obliged to cultivate ourselves in the knowledge of our nation's history. We also owe it to honor our ancestors, our heroes, and ultimately to our generation a special duty. Our grandfathers and great-grandfathers fought in the great war, so we are the generation who may have known the heroes who returned from the wars of the First World War, and it is now our duty to keep the thread of memory from breaking. That is why it is important that the day of defence and the Sunday of heroes be a day of remembrance in Székesfehérvár, and because Székesfehérvár is a symbol, it carries the spirit, history and national identity of the Hungarian people, and thus occupies a decisive place in the history of Hungary, including the history of war, as Székesfehérvár is still a military town. Following the above idea, on 21 May 2013, on the day of defence, we launched a charity fundraiser program, which killed the heroic death of all wars in front of Hungarian soldiers and mainly in Fehérvár, and an opportunity to help our war orphans, our war widows and to cherish the military memorial of Székesfehérvár. The symbol of the event is the Pentecostal rose made by Székesfehérvár students from paper. This, or the memory of the fallen heroes, is referred to by the name "Each to a thread." In addition to the municipality of Székesfehérvár, several local NGOs and educational institutions supported and supported our initiative. The fundraiser ended yesterday, the day of the heroes, the last Sunday of May. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. "The past cannot be taken from us," wrote Professor István Nemeskürty, "but it is ours only if we know it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Without proper knowledge, it is not possible to build a safe future. We also need to support programmes and initiatives aimed at knowledge of local history in order to preserve our nation, because it raises our children's responsibility for their community. This is why it is important that as many settlements as possible join our initiative in the future, because in addition to the salutation, the Sunday of heroes also warns us of the responsibility for the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary L. Simon László responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-27	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, We congratulate the people of Székesfehérvár, all the citizens of Székesfehérvár, who supported the initiative and we believe that it is an initiative worth following. Speak here in the House, as my colleague, Member of State, has said: Székesfehérvár is still a military town, and it is a worthy caretaker of Hungarian defence, Hungarian patriotism and Hungarian sacrifice. We must also congratulate both Mayor András Cser-Palkovics, Tamás Vargha, State Secretary for Defence and military leaders who have served and are currently serving in Székesfehérvár for many years. What Székesfehérvár does is exemplary. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that, seeing the series of memorials and events which were constantly presented to us on the centennial anniversary of the First World War, the exhibition opened in several museums in the country, Székesfehérvár was able to set an example in this, too. They're putting soldiers in front of us in a way that's right. More than 600,000 Hungarian heroes lost their lives in World War I, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian soldiers who sacrificed their lives in World War II, fought for their country, were loyal to their country, served and fought in the interests of their country. I am particularly proud of all that the Secretary of State has just said and of the initiatives that make Székesfehérvár a really military city today, since I am also Fejér County, born of Székesfehérvár. During World War I commemorations, I also pay great attention to what is happening in the city. Perhaps so much personalism is permitted in Parliament that even on the door of my parliamentary office, my great-grandfather's biography of the regiment of Székesfehérvár, served in the imperial and royal regiment of 69, can be found, which reveals that he fought for 51 months in the front line of the First World War. After 51 months of incessant fighting for four years, a man must draw an example and strength from all of this, so he could come home, raise a family, and raise his three daughters. I personally draw an example and strength from this. We thank the city of Székesfehérvár, the defence leadership and the Member himself for giving us many, many, many similar, worthy examples of patriotism in the focus of our thinking. I wish many people to join this initiative. I wish that Székesfehérvár, as the historic capital of this country, would serve the Hungarian defence for many centuries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now invite Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the speakers after the agenda.
u2015-06-01-29	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Bernadett Szél, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ikotity, István, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; László Teleki, MSZP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; László Varga, MSZP; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Loránné Hegedűs, Jobbik; István Apáti, Jobbik; Dániel Z., Jobbik and Előd Novák Jobbik. [[11.50]]
u2015-06-01-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Now it's 11:50, and we're gonna start discussing questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Have you taken over the debts of hospitals? It's an address. Congressman László Kács has the floor, please.
u2015-06-01-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In March, I asked the Minister a similar question, and the Secretary of State replied. At that time, many suppliers feared that they would not be able to obtain their claim because the EMMI would assume these debts by merging into the large budget of the EMMI and by earning a huge maze for the suppliers. Even then, we have said many times since then that if 60 billion are available, how they intend to pay 90 billion forints. We didn't necessarily understand that, and then, based on last week's news, I think you could understand it. Out of HUF 60 billion, it was only HUF 20 billion that you sent out, you paid for it instead of April 1st, otherwise on May 28th, the rest was transferred back to hospitals together with the problem. The remaining amount you have returned is just over 50 percent of the remaining debt in total. They have also entered into agreements with hospitals, and I trust that they have not ruled out their further position and have not excluded their additional responsibilities, since the hospital directors will now have to deal with the same suppliers that they could not agree with because of your inability. It remains a huge problem for suppliers. We are talking about Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, whose income is sometimes covered by the fact that Hungarian health care owes them because of you. These suppliers lend you credit, they have held consultations for months, and now the committees have been formed; they are working on 2012 data, Mr Secretary of State, at the inaugural meetings, to hear terrible things. Yet I ask - the basic mathematical operation, it seems to have failed - why put hospital directors in such a position, why and in what form do they intend to pay the suppliers, and do they really feel that they have taken over the debts? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-01-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This sum of HUF 60 billion is a huge item in the Hungarian budget, and it is a budget-measurable amount, and that is what the government has already recorded months ago that it will devote itself to hospital debt settlement. The opposition still doubted whether this would actually happen and whether this amount would actually be translated here. But as we have seen in recent months and weeks, indeed, as the government has said earlier, we intend to use this total amount of $60 billion to settle hospital debts. This amount has been around the same magnitude for years, so it is not the amount of debt that has been accumulated in recent years, but in recent years that the government has just reached the stage in which the performance of the economy has given us the opportunity to try to take these amounts off the shoulders of hospitals at the same time in a series of negotiations. Therefore, on 19 May, Minister of State Gábor Zombor signed a unilateral declaration of law allowing hospitals and universities to settle their debts, and the legislative background for implementation was published in the issue of the Hungarian Gazette of 26 May. Obviously, the transfers in the budget were made public before then, and they were made public. The State Health Services Center has concluded negotiations with the largest suppliers in recent weeks. If you look at the entire list of suppliers in total, 6200 suppliers and 194 thousand invoices. Thus, the HUF 20.8 billion capital debt negotiated with the 25 largest suppliers settled 64 thousand accounts, which he settled. Thus, the ÁEEK has provided the money to hospitals and university clinics, and the institutions operating in church and economic company maintenance can also benefit from these funds. So I hope that it's only a matter of weeks, and that we can end the whole process. And this HUF 60 billion will be enough to cover the entire hospital debt. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: When do you intend to exempt the main road 2 crossing Szendehely, Rétság, Nagyorosi settlements? It's an address. Mr. Vice President, please.
u2015-06-01-35	Dear Secretary of State, The results of a recent traffic count have been astonishing. In 24 hours, thousands of vehicles pass through the village of Nagyoros in West Nograd. In many cases, 30-40 tonnes of vehicles also pass through sections of the street where the road is one or two metres away from the walls of the houses. Maybe I don't need to tell you what kind of problems this could create, potentially dangerous situations. It's a very old debt for current governments to set up a new trail on Route 2. This is important in many ways. It could also be beneficial to generate investment and, in this context, to reduce emigration. The locals remember well that the Medgyessy government had promised to set a path for the passage that avoided settlements. Since then, like the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, the Orbán government has done nothing. Political statements, in particular, were made during the campaign period, but there are still huge traffic, thundering trucks, unbearable exhaust gas and potholes along Route 2. I would also like an answer: do you support the development of Highway 2? Do you support better and simpler access to the western part of the county of Nógrád, which has been missed in many respects? Dear Secretary of State, It is time for the request of the Szendehely, the meadows, the Borsosberényi and the Great Russians to be heard here in the House of the country. On your behalf, please mark the new trail on Route 2. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer will be given by Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, The government's priority is the implementation of roads avoiding settlements, whether they are implemented in any construction, whether there is an expressway or just a bypass or any way out of the settlements' roads, which is clearly seen from the work of the past period, and we plan that in all such cases, where there is already a specific need, and there are plans, we are trying to bring them forward. Between 2011 and 2020 we are planning significant developments in the county of Nógrád in the section that Mr Vice-President mentioned in his comments on the issue. I am happy to report that the two-track development of Budapest-Vác will definitely be completed, and our plans include the construction of the road to the border. You must be aware of the problem, as you know that we have not yet been able to agree with the Slovak party at the border crossing point. Therefore, each investment element can be better accelerated if it is resolved on all such important issues. We have not yet succeeded, but we are confident that there will be no obstacle to further preparation. As you know, we want to finance this from the European Network Development Facility, our plan is to make this investment possible. Therefore, I would like to ask you and your faction with respect to support our speeding up package of legislation, which will be put to the vote on the 9th. We would like you to support us in order to ensure that all of our prepared work, which can be started, is actually continued and that all preparatory processes are accelerated. It seems that if Parliament will support the adoption of the package, then we will have a number of investments, almost all of them by the deadline, as promised. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. When will the Prime Minister's Office issue applications for the new rural development programme? It's an address. Now I have to ask who's going to answer it, because in my scenario, it's in the hands of the Prime Minister's Office. [[István Ikotity: I can answer that too. Defiance.]] Congressman...! Fellow Members! [[12.00]] I ask you to say this again, Mr Congressman, because I understand that Minister János Lázár is coming to the answer. [[Zoltán Lukács: We feel his presence.]] You should also contribute to the authentic party to address this issue. I suppose that's the point. I would now ask Congressman Roland Mengyi to ask his question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. How can a new factory based on Singapore's investment help Miskolc to develop? It's an address. I would like to inform you that István Mikola will answer. Here you go.
u2015-06-01-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In a developing area such as Miskolc and its surroundings, such as Tiszaújváros or Sikszó, every forint investment, every job counts, so of course everyone tries to move every stone to attract businesses to the city and the region. As early as last October, news was heard that next to Takata another company could be established in Miskolc Southern Industrial Park. Dr. Ákos Kriza and the director of Patec, Andy Wong, signed a declaration of intent to build a new hall of 15 thousand square meters. At the time, Patec's representative said that more Central European countries, Romania, Slovakia and Serbia were also mentioned as potential investment sites, but they decided on Miskolc because of the skilled, stable workforce, infrastructure and the university's high level of knowledge base. This shows why the issue of vocational training is so important to us. They also said that in the new factory, the Volkswagen Group will make parts for its factories. This Wednesday the agreement was signed by Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó in Singapore. According to this, Patec Automotive is a supplier of automotive products in Singapore and continues to relocate its manufacturing activities in China to Hungary and, as a first step, to build a new factory in Miskolc. The number of employees in the factory is expected to reach 150 by 31 December, but the total capacity represents 400 new jobs. By the way, the parent company was established in Singapore in 1992, and since then research and development centres have been built in Japan, China, and after 2001, in Indonesia and now in Miskolc, Hungary. Singapore is the second most competitive economy in the world and its most dominant commercial, financial and R &amp; D centre, and it is also an extremely open economy. This opens the possibility of exporting to the Singapore market for Hungarian companies, such as premium food, wines, software development, health industry. I ask Mr Secretary of State what investment in Singapore means for the development of Miskolc and the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-01-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer from the government will be given by Secretary of State Mikola István. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the words of appreciation. It is a happy fact that the developments of the past period have enabled the region of Miskolc to become a fully competitive competitor in its attractiveness today, either in Central Hungary or in the region of Western Hungary. Many of the businesses established here have become the flagship of the Hungarian economy. Their activities are well-known to us, as not one of the government's strategic partners appears there, for example the Bosch, the Takata. The current decision of the company in Singapore also proves that the existing industrial traditions in Miskolc, the well-trained workforce available, the knowledge base represented by the University of Miskolc and the investment-oriented city management are all strong attractions. I hope this will work well for further investment decisions, as Miskolc is currently competing as a possible location for more investment projects. In the last four years, six Miskolc projects, including automotive, mechanical and service centre projects, have been implemented with the assistance of the National Investment Agency, which has created a total of 2260 new jobs in Miskolc, worth EUR 182 million. In the context of the current investment in Singapore, I also think it is important to emphasise that the government's Eastern Opening Policy has recently resulted in an increase in Asian investment in Hungary. For 2014 data, 51 percent of the 60 new investment projects worth EUR 1.66 billion, creating 11,000 new jobs, amounted to EUR 840 million for Asian, Indian, Japanese and Chinese investments. Honourable Congressman, Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-01-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Since Prime Minister János Lázár has arrived, the question of our fellow Members from LMP can be heard by Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity: . When will the Prime Minister's Office write out the applications for the new rural development programme? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The latest news on the rural development programme was that the European Commission approved another ten Member States' programmes. Unfortunately, however, the Hungarian rural development programme is not one of these, because this is still under discussion in the EU. Up to now, rural development programmes have been approved in 23 Member States, one or more of which have already been completed in 18. The question is why Hungary is once again among the motorists with its own programme accepted and whose political and professional responsibility is in this regard. Proposals for the rural development programme have not been published for more than six months, which could lead to job losses in rural areas. The reason for the delay is that, due to the state of the government's internal struggles, the territory was transferred to the Prime Minister's Office, where the State Secretary was moved to Kecskemét. The LMP has criticised the reorganisation of ministries and the outsourcing of rural development from the former Ministry of Rural Development. The restructuring we have here is a consequence of this. The serious slippage of the adoption of the Hungarian rural development programme also proves that instead of dealing with governance, Fidesz is wasting its energy on discrediting critics and internal struggles. No one cares - now in the government - that people can be ruined and market-based jobs can be lost. Who is responsible for the delay in allocating resources? What do family farmers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, get, in addition to the insinuation, that the Hungarian rural development programme is expected to be approved in Brussels in June? What does the Hungarian countryside, young people living in the countryside get from the Fidesz government, besides promises and propaganda, that there will be a lot of jobs for us later? What do you want to do to keep those who are deciding whether to go abroad or to stay home? How to believe the government after the corruption scandals of the last few years that merit [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Is the distribution of HUF 1300 billion expected from non-relationship? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-01-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I mentioned in my introduction, the answer will be given by Minister János Lázár, Head of Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-06-01-45	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you very much for asking. I regret that my fellow Member Sallai did not have the opportunity and time to ask the question, given the fact that he is a great expert on the subject, so that he would have been even more open to professional dialogue here, with the public of Parliament, as far as rural development is concerned. First of all, I would like to say to my fellow Member that it would be good if the only problem with the rural development programme was where the seat of the State Secretary for Rural Development is. It would have been good if only moving to Kecskemét had affected the state of play of the rural development programme, but two aspects had a significant impact on our work. One is that until December 2014, the European Commission did not give a meaningful opinion on the submitted Hungarian rural development programme, on which the government adopted a new directive in August 2014. First of all, we have prepared a source monitoring that will be discussed by the government at its current meeting on Wednesday. We were trying to see if the resources of the former rural development register were in the hands of the rural areas or of concentrated capital groups. The lesson is that a very significant part of the funds, in my view, at least two thirds of them did not strengthen rural development, but they came to a focused hand. [[12.10]] Therefore, since August 2014, the Hungarian government has undertaken to change the proportion of rural development resources, which means that at least two thirds, rather 80 percent, are destined for the small and medium-sized economies with the aim of creating jobs and giving everyone opportunities. For the first time in the rural development programme, 80% of small farms and 20 percent of large farms will be eligible, the European Commission has accepted this. My colleagues closed the negotiations last week, so we have a good chance that the adoptions and announcements will take place in June, and we have not been delayed, because in recent weeks there has been an invitation to tender for rural development, and even the 2007-2013 cycle is not closed. We look forward to the expert's comments from Members of the Council in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-46	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. What is left out of the Prime Minister's visit. Congressman László Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-01-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Orbán visited Miskolc with him a few weeks ago, and several promises were made for the development of the city. Of course, many of these promises have been left out, and I am not going out on social policy issues right now, because obviously we see the fate of the Miskolcs in a fundamentally different way, a lot of the people in Miskolc are left out today, and a lot of people live very hard, but it is worth discussing developments here in Parliament. What I'm saying is, if these five dots come true, it's obviously welcome, we'll see what happens. However, in this context, some of your promises have also been left out. I would like to mention, first of all, the intermodal node that we hope will be carried out in addition to the Tisza railway station, which will also affect the planned investment of the nearby Y Bridge. As a result, a complete colony, the MÁV colony, has been eradicated, where there are now unblessed conditions. To hear that very few resources are available for intermodal nodes across the country, this has not been included in this agreement, Mr Orbán has also referred to this. What will be the fate of this question? The city needs resources in this area. I note that I have also tabled an amendment to the budget on this subject. The other thing that has been left out is the settlement of the DAM area - we are talking about the former steelworks - where there are now unblessed conditions, mixed property, many things, and obviously brownfield rehabilitation is also necessary. You promised the city a thousand acres of industrial park. I think that if such a greenfield development plan is in place and a state agency is set up in several Hungarian cities, then set up an agency that can also contribute to brownfield rehabilitation. What about the DAM area? Can the government eliminate this landscape wound in Miskolc? In the Committee on Enterprise Development, Péter Szijjártó promised - and this is the third - that he would support my suggestion that Miskolc should also be a automotive centre, that the government should bring great developments here, and that culture that is here in the field of university and engineering training should be used jointly for the region's prosperity. So the third question arises: can there be an automotive centre in Miskolc? I look forward to Minister's reply. Progress can also be made on these issues. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-01-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-06-01-49	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that when Mayor Kriza and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán concluded the agreement on behalf of the city and the government, you also decorated this act with your personal presence, which, I believe, is in the interest of all of us, not primarily, to look for differences in party policy, but to try to help Miskolc, where, based on our appreciation, which is the whole assessment of the government, we can conclude that positive processes have started, namely, significant industrial investments are being made and implemented to halt job creation and economic fall. Therefore, we have tried to focus these five points, which we have adopted, on which Miskolc puts us in a position: partly with support from industrial parks, logistics, research and development, innovation, and partly by linking Košice and Miskolc to significant positive changes. I would like to note that we have financial resources for two large rural research and development centres at the moment, and we hope that one of them will be Győr, and Miskolc has a very good chance. As at the hearing between the Prime Minister and the mayor, the topics that you are calling to account for in the government are on the agenda, so we have a very positive and open approach to the issues that you have raised. First of all, regarding the intermodal hit theme, let me note that there are few cities that do not want this type of investment, but there are few cities that have an unavoidable status, essentially Debrecen, Miskolc, Székesfehérvár and Kaposvár, in my opinion, are inevitable in these investments. So I can't make a promise because of the application system, but what I can tell you is that between the current traffic conditions - and the Y Bridge is connected to this, of course, even if it is not covered by an EU source - I can tell you that there is no way to bypass intermodal development in Miskolc, so Miskolc is applying with a very strong backwind. As far as DAM development is concerned: Prime Minister talked to the Mayor about this, we specifically asked for a development concept, because the task of the large state agency to be set up will be to buy land everywhere in the country and to create industrial development zones, to manage the cities, for example, a thousand hectares in Miskolc. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-50	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "You are just saying that there is no decision on the fate of Corvinus University, but why do you not put an end to the situation and promise not to chop up the university and move the arms?" It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-01-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, a forum was held at the Faculty of Gardening at Corvinus University about the future of the university, whether the news about the separation of the six arms, the removal of certain arms and the sale of valuable properties of the Buda campus. Hundreds of those there, including myself, saw that there was a complete unity between the university's management, the teaching staff and the students in terms of the need for the six faculties of the university to remain together. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, you communicate that no decision has been made, so you do not understand the indignation. That may even be true, no public decision has been made. At the same time, it is talkative that you do not say that you do not have such a plan, but that you say that no decision has been made. This difference is speculating, even because they could see the great panic caused by the news of the dismemberment of the university among those involved. If they really don't have such a plan, why didn't they accept the invitation to this forum and tell everyone in their eyes? That would have been more than enough to put an end to the situation. Last week, this topic was also mentioned in Parliament, where you were trying to make it seem that a forged letter led to a rumor about dismembering the university. It was infuriated to hear what a mistake it was for the university board to fall for such a false letter, but that is not true. It is not true, because the forged letter came to light on Wednesday afternoon of the ominous week, while the forum mentioned was at noon on Wednesday. The convening of the forum had nothing to do with the forged letter. You know that, but you're lying about this. The university's management called the forum because they received a number of signals that, indirectly, showed that dismemberment of the university and the sale of the property could take place. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of all this, why do you claim that the forum was convened on the basis of the forged letter, while this is not factually true? Why don't you give me a guarantee that Corvinus University won't be dismembered or sold? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The panic in this case was not caused by the decisions of the government, but by the false news, the rumors, the untruths that some people started spreading in the press for some reason. Apparently, the various communication elements were built on one another, and part of it was completely new in the political culture of recent years, that a letter had also been forged in order to increase this atmosphere and create even more alarm in young people. What anyone here refers to, of course, was no decision that these false news or even this letter was about, so no such question was placed on the desk of either the Ministry or the Government, so that no decision could be made in them. So in this respect, it was entirely based on false news. How untrue or harmful such hystericalism is to all higher education: I believe that the leadership of both the Independent Student Parliament and Corvinus University said that it is unacceptable to this case of corvinous letter counterfeiting that it is completely separate from those of this news, the perpetrators of this forgery. This makes it clear to me that this is everyone's position that such means should not be used to poison the possibility of debate in public administration. [[12.20]] The government is implementing its ideas very clearly. You may know it, Mr President, because, if I remember correctly, the higher education strategy, called "Training in Higher Education," has been on the Internet since the beginning of December and on the kormany.hu website. This was widely discussed in society, supported by the members of the higher education round table on the student side, discussed in the Rector's Conference, in the Committee on Education, in the Committee on Culture and in the National Assembly, and there was a relative consensus on its professional part. Obviously, everyone disagreed politically, but a full consensus was reached with professional organisations. So much will happen in the coming weeks, in the coming months, in the coming years in Hungarian higher education, which is described in this strategy. According to this, the government is moving in a completely transparent manner. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Therefore, we do not advise anyone to top or give credit to such rumours. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. Where are the invitations to tender? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr András Tállai will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As you are well aware, under Government Resolution 1173 laying down the annual development framework of the Economic Development and Innovation Operational Programme for 2015, it should have been announced in April this year, in short, the simplified procedure tender for the expansion of the production capacity of micro and medium-sized enterprises and the tender scheme for supporting investments by GINOP 1.2.2., i.e. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises creating jobs in free business zones. Despite the current government decision and the government's success propaganda on EU programmes, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises face the fact that Széchenyi 2020 palyazat.gov.hu has not yet published these announcements, even though May has passed, let alone April. The last such tender was held at the end of last year. Unfortunately, without a valid label, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are unable to develop, so that, in most cases, without a valid label, they do not even receive credit for their ideas. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State when these applications will finally be issued. Who is responsible for the government's failure to comply with its own decision? Is it because Hungary does not have an approved development programme in Brussels? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-01-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-57	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The operational programme for economic development and innovation, called GINOP, was formally adopted by the Commission of the European Union on 13 February 2015, as already published in the press, and was posted on the website of the Commission of the European Union. Then, on 22 April 2015, the GINOP Monitoring Committee held its inaugural meeting in Hungary and decided on the methods and criteria to be used for the selection in accordance with the EU's expectations, so all the conditions are given for this operational programme to work and work in Hungary. In this spirit, as you said, five calls were already announced in 2015 with a budget of HUF 60 billion and 59 more are under preparation. This will mean HUF 780 billion to the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector this year. On 24 March, the Government adopted the so-called annual development framework for GINOP, which will also be necessary in the future for operational programmes to be operational and, accordingly, in June, it will be possible to put in place new proposals or to keep those prepared proposals for the remaining period of the year. Thus, this call for support for job-creating investments by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises of the above mentioned GINOP 1.2.1 and GINOP 1.2.2 will also be published. I am very confident that Hungary's small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to make use of this and thus keep many jobs and create a new one in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Representatives of Mr Sallai R. Benedek and Mr István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Summer break is coming up, the Elizabeth camps are about to start. The government has often said that this is a large-scale holiday program, a major milestone for Hungary's renewal, to quote, but the renewal has not yet been able to appreciate the work of camping teachers, since they are not paid for their work on their own leave. Make no mistake, taking children to camp during the summer holiday, taking care of them, organizing programs, taking responsibility is not a serious task, it would normally be a priority job for which special pay would be paid during the camping period. On the other hand, the teachers working in the Erzsébet camps only provide their accommodation and meals, and at the end of the camp they receive a few thousand HUF Erzsébet voucher. In addition, there is nothing: no travel expenses, no work fees, and in many places even tourist tax is imposed on them, even though they are doing their job and not on a cloudless holiday. In addition, last year, we received numerous complaints about the conditions of the camps, whether in terms of accommodation, quality of meals or organization. When we called for these problems last year, they only continued the success propaganda, as if the number of campers were a meaningful response to this deficiency. Dear Secretary of State, What can the teachers who accompany the children to Camp Elizabeth this year expect? Do they get paid to spend their time on their vacation, or will they continue to take advantage of them this year, their sacrifice, and give them up to a few thousand forints of Elizabeth's vouchers? I look forward to your answer, as I think hundreds of teachers are waiting for the answer to that question.
u2015-06-01-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is important to say that the Erzsébet programme has been operating for the fourth year and operates from a source previously exported from the country by a few companies producing food vouchers. All this now serves the full purpose of social recreation: on the one hand, it provides children a meaningful holiday for camping and, on the other hand, it serves the purposes of social recreation, and on the other hand it has been a holiday for 400 thousand people, of which 200 thousand children. Most of these people, who probably could never afford to go on vacation, were given this opportunity by the Elizabeth Programme. In the group of camp signs, there is a real need for accompanying teachers to go with the students. The schools do so by adding to their application the teacher who volunteered to accompany his students to these camps and take care of the children. Children here have to pay a very low amount for a tour, a total of two thousand forints, and they can spend time on the shore of Lake Balaton in a week's camp or go to thematic camps. The Erzsébet program provides accommodation, care for the accompanying teachers or coaches for a full period of time, and precisely because of any cost, including your payment, we also provide a meal Erzsébet voucher worth 10 thousand HUF to the teachers here, whose work is of course supported by the camp organizers, they can always turn to them, in the thematic camps professional leaders will always receive the information that is necessary, and these professional leaders will, of course, develop the exact theme; these teachers will monitor and monitor the children. [[12.30]] But this year, we also issued a special holiday application for those who are employed in public education institutions, where teachers can go on vacation with their families, on a very, very special basis, in the framework of the Erzsébet programme. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence a question about the title "Honvédek" in distress. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Some of the country's soldiers and their families are in trouble these days. As a result of the Buda-Cash scandal, the money they had saved at the Honvéd Health Bank has been lost; their money is being held back because the Buda-Cash gambler has robbed the bank group where they kept their savings. We are talking about nearly 28,000 people and their families who lost 1.8 billion forints. In many cases, not a month from now, but a few years from now, when the compensations will be paid, if at all, but immediately. Just to illustrate the problem: one of the cashier members would need 300,000 forints to keep his little girl's vision safe by surgery, the savings in the cashier would have provided the cover, which is now lost. What can you say to this man? Wait till the investigation is over, and maybe you'll get some of your money back? Unfortunately, they probably don't see their savings, because according to the law, the National Deposit Insurance Fund doesn't compensate cash registers. Dear Secretary of State, We know that you have no direct influence on the case, especially on the investigation, but your responsibility is also the serious problem affecting the military. Jobbik urges these people to provide alternative assistance, which is expected from the Ministry of Defence for the Honvéd Bank members. In this regard, we have also made a proposal for a budgetary amendment to help these people. I hope the Ministry supports this, too. My question is what measures have been taken so far by the Ministry in order to help the members of the health fund with defence personnel. Also, if you have not yet taken concrete, financial measures, do you want to help these people in the near future? And what do you intend to do for these soldiers? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is profoundly shocking that he wants to use the damage of other people for political gain, and he is demagogically demanding that the Ministry take measures that the Ministry neither has legal authority nor the possibility to take responsibility for faulty decisions by market players and for the consequences of them. This could be the short answer, but I would also like to confirm in this place that the defence wallet always, under all circumstances, has the interests of the stock in mind. We have introduced the military career, raise the salary of our soldiers, and provide and offer a wide range of extra-wage benefits. Part of the benefits is that in the framework of the annual cafeteria provided by the Ministry of Defence, staff of the portfolio may receive a health fund contribution. It is regrettable that part of the stock has deposited this money with a market participant on whose behalf it uses the word "honvéd" while it has nothing to do with the Ministry of Defence or the Hungarian Defence. The management of this fund kept the members' money at a minibank instead of the securities guaranteed by the State and thus lost a significant part of it. However, the Ministry of Defence provides the highest level of health care for the staff members and their immediate relatives, and all of this is free of charge. No one's eyes are or can be threatened by the operation of such a health fund or its inability to function. The Minister's request is to direct the complainant, if at all, to him personally, and to the management of the health institution on all other matters relating to the matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Who protects horse farmers from authority incompetence? It's an address. Congressman István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-01-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The National Food Chain Safety Office is one of the emblematic final products of the Orbán government's power-focusing efforts. This office has recently failed spectacularly twice, and this year it has not been able to prevent an infectious equine disease, which is a unique case, from becoming a national crisis. There is now an epidemic threat in Hungary that, without radical measures, makes domestic horse breeding and horse sport impossible, while at the same time pointing out the inability of the veterinary authority system. What seemed to be a local and localizable problem at the beginning of April has now become a national epidemic. Control seems to have slipped out of the hands of the authorities. All of this could have been prevented if the clinic of the Veterinary Science Faculty of St. Stephen's University and the Nebih had not committed a series of unexplained errors in the first case, since the horse taken with high fever and bleeding was not isolated, but had been placed in several booths, no immediate screening of horses arriving or returning from Romania was introduced. There is no cure for infectious anaemia, also known as equine AIDS. If an infection occurs in a country's horse stock, such as neighbouring Romania's, it also strikes horse-breeding and horse-sports, as owners keep their animals away from infected areas. Hungary is now on the verge of this crisis, and the situation is clearly not being dealt with by the politicalally controlled Nebih. The LMP requires immediate, thorough investigation, clarification of liability, measures appropriate to the gravity of the crisis. We would like to know how a series of mistakes with catastrophic consequences could have happened. Has veterinary checks been tightened in the Hungarian-Romanian context? What changes are planned in several cases in a spectacularly fried authority system? Who is responsible for the damage caused so far? What does the government do to prevent the inability of domestic horse breeding in a difficult situation? I look forward to your reply with all due respect.
u2015-06-01-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Róbert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I declare most definitely that there is currently no infectious low-blood epidemic in our country, no crisis, no artificial hysteria at the most. In relation to infectious anaemia, three annual screenings of horses were made mandatory years ago, and in the event of the deterioration of the epidemic situation in Romania, we provided state support for mandatory screening in order to prevent domestic contamination. In recent years, we have drawn attention to the importance of this screening several times and on several forums, as it is the responsibility and duty of the keepers to protect their own stocks. We warned all horse keepers not to take their animals to the affected area, unknown places, and to allow new animals into their flocks only after proper tests have been carried out. Thanks to all these measures and the screening studies organised by Nébih, there was and there is no epidemic in Hungary, because the cases were found in time. Due to the inspections ordered by the Office, all horses suspected of being affected were quarantined, thereby preventing further spread from the source of contamination. In recent months, we have detected infection in five cases out of more than ten thousand samples. The authorities will do everything in their power to protect healthy horses and domestic horses. Again, I would like to point out that there is no epidemic or crisis. Domestic horse breeding is threatened by irresponsible panic, not infectious lack of blood. I am sorry that Congressman is not paying attention to the information published by authentic and well-functioning Nebih, but to this panic, and you will be a part of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. If he has access to Budapest, why not Nyíregyháza? It's an address. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor, please.
u2015-06-01-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In connection with the title, of course, I must indicate that as an enthusiastic local patriot, I am very proud of the values of Nyíregyháza, along with one hundred and twenty thousand me. [[12.40]] I am proud that the animal park that attracts 400,000 visitors every year has become almost a trademark of this town, instead of a few ten thousand visitors in the early years. I am also proud that this city has made efforts to get hundreds of thousands of people to visit here because, in addition to the billion-dollar EU funds, it has sacrificed a great deal of its own, municipal and other resources for this. When I hear the news that the Budapest Zoo will develop from 25 billion, I am somewhat surprised. I am surprised at the fact that the number of visitors of a non-variable one million makes me wonder whether these resources are distributed in proportion, practical and equitable terms. Mostly, because these objects, these beautiful things attract tourists, and we all want them not only to see our values, but also to spend their money. You, Minister, are capable of doing everything possible not to say that an action plan, or at least a programme, is being put to good use; there is already a ministerial agent for the Metropolitan Grand Circus and, last time, a Castle Programme. That's why I'm asking if you can't do this programically. It cannot be properly and fairly developed that people living in the capital should be proud of their values, of their values, of the people living in the big cities, or of their own values, because the essence of these animal parks and gardens is that they need to be constantly developed, they want a lot of money, because if there is no attraction, the audience will be lost. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Minister.
u2015-06-01-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-06-01-73	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I respect what you said as a local patriot about Nyíregyháza, and I am also a great supporter of the actions of any of my fellow local patriots for rural development and community development. This draws nothing from the value that Miklós Persányi has created in recent decades, under the leadership of the Metropolitan Zoo. We all know that we are talking about Hungary's most visited institution. So it's not a question of why they get what they get, it's a question of why rural zoos don't get what they don't get. I would like to say that, for example, developments took place in the Nyíregyháza Zoo between 2008 and 2013. These, of course, far from covering the needs expressed by either the Nyíregyházas or the Szegeds or the Veszpréms in recent years. I also agree, Mr President, that the development of the Budapest Zoo cannot be taken out of the context, which is a kind of organizational, scientific and institutional community of Hungarian zoos, so it is worth looking at. If you'll allow me, Congressman, I'll send you all the relevant government plans and materials, and I'm happy to be at your disposal, if that's what you're interested in, in order to complete a detailed consultation. I myself am a big fan of the development of rural zoos, because meaningful spending of leisure time in a rural town must be a very important program on weekends. In addition, I will not reveal a great secret that Nyíregyháza is viewed by the government as a city with enormous potential for its geographical location, and we would like to specifically develop it with a regional centre function. Therefore, Congressman, if I may, I would like to contact you in order to discuss the fate of other zoos in the countryside, or to set up such a conciliation forum involving all our fellow Members in Parliament who are affected by this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-01-74	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister: "Does the government accept the result of the referendum in Zugló, or will they want to build the City Park even if the citizens say no? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, From the events of the last year, it seems that you are determined to integrate the City Park because of the development of the museum district, which will result in the destruction of one of Pest's major green surfaces, one of Pest's lungs. They want to install half a dozen museums and buildings and infrastructure necessary or necessary to serve them, not to mention that the crowd of visitors will probably help to preserve the natural environment. So far, a billion HUF has been spent on the foundation and implementation of this project, which could have been rehabilitated from one billion forints to the entire City Park, instead of being paid to offshore companies or partly offshore companies. The budget for 2016 includes HUF 20 billion for this purpose, but it is unclear that my fellow Member, Mr Hegedűs Lorántné, did not receive a clear answer at a committee meeting from State Secretary Péter Benő Banai, to what and to whom exactly this HUF 20 billion will go. Jobbik strongly opposes taking away or overcrowding the existing few green surfaces that are still present in Budapest, from families and those who want to relax. There would be a place for similar projects in Budapest; if the government wanted a museum district at all costs, they would do it at a site that is now unused, but would not have to be used in the City Park. Therefore, Jobbik will do everything in its power to prevent the moving of the museum district to City Park. A referendum was also mentioned in Zuglo in this regard, and our representative, János Czeglédi, will make this presentation soon. We hope that the local body of representatives will also have the wisdom to, for example, point XII. Like the district, citizens will be consulted there. I have two questions, Mr Secretary of State: do you want to build the City Park, and at all costs, if the citizens say no to this in the referendum, will you accept the result? And if the project is not realized, what will this HUF 20 billion be spent on, for example, for the renovation of the Castle? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You probably missed the fact that since the launch of the Városliget project, the Liget Budapest project, and in the manner set out in the City Park Law, environmental aspects have been highlighted and the park is as viable as possible during the implementation of the entire project. We have calculated and passed the law that the green surface should not decrease during the project, but rather grow. On many levels, a policy declaration and a specific regulatory plan are included, and it gives guarantees to everyone, not only to the Zuglós, but also to everyone else who would like to visit the City Park from Budapest or from any part of the country. After all, the one million people who visit the zoo, and that's why they go to the City Park, or because they went to the Széchenyi Bath, this is one million people, or even 500 thousand people in the Museum of Fine Arts, obviously they come from many places, and everyone is happy to go to the City Park, or even many people go to the City Park alone. The green surface shall not be less than the green surface ratio as of 31 December 2013 as laid down by law. This was also recorded by the law, and then the Metropolitan Assembly also issued a decree on the building regulations of the City Park. This will pay particular attention to the protection of plants, the protection of the green surfaces of the park and the expansion of green function. As the level of protection increases, the green surface ratio will increase from 60 percent to 65 percent so far, so more green surfaces will be available for people entering the Liget. In addition, they will, of course, start, as you said, next year, the first phase of the design tasks of the new museum building, reconstruction tasks and construction works of 19.1 billion forints. We hope that this means a more livable, much greener, much cleaner and much more multifunctional City Park for everyone. You know very well that a local referendum can obviously be issued on the issue that falls within the competence of the municipality. As I said, this is a law and a regulation of the capital, so this is not a competence of the Municipality of Zugló; and a lot of others are worth asking, since VI, VII. or XIII. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. district residents also visit the City Park, along with many others. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-01-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister for National Development:. Who pays for the losses of the USSR? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[12.50]]
u2015-06-01-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, I could have asked who was paying the biggest bill for the 2014 Fidesz election campaign, which is now $100 billion, because this is about the USSR. I'm sure you know that where there's war, there's losers, there's casualties. I'd like to show you who the real victims and losers of your rent campaign are. In short, I would say that cuts in salaries, layoffs, layoffs, crashing public services, improbable small businesses. These are the events that pave the way for your debt war. On the one hand, the government frozen and then slightly reduced prices, and then burdened the sectors with a multitude of new taxes and withdrawals, but also those sectors where there is community property, where the role of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises was dominant. The adverse consequences are in series from 2013-14. What we see is that the mass of energy suppliers is dismantling their sub-contracting network of small and medium-sized enterprises, significant redundancies, frozen and reduced wages, and the elimination of extra-wage allowances is also a general phenomenon. We see that there are water companies and gas services in trouble, but chimney sweeps are also about to sue in Brussels, because 1500 people's work is at risk, not to mention that when it comes to chimney sweeps, there is also a need to talk about life and property security. It is clear to us what Green Bridge Nonprofit Ltd. said that last year a loss of HUF 600 million was collected, and the NAV is now invading the wages of the employees. But there is the first renationalized Pécs Waterworks, where they started by firing 100 people, so they could stay on the surface. One word, like a hundred, from now on it is quite clear that all the remaining investments and maintenance will have to be paid by Hungarian taxpayers in connection with your debt war. I do not know if you can already see - from the pre- Agenda I concluded that not quite yet - that these losers, the losers of the regime, are now mostly Hungarian businesses and Hungarian workers. We would like to know whether these people will be compensated, and whether the Hungarian taxpayers will actually pay the Fidesz election campaign's bill, your high-end debt war in 2014.
u2015-06-01-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Zsolt Szabó will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-81	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government remains determined to maintain long-term reductions and to represent consumers' interests in a defined and effective way. The most important of the steps following the reduction of burdens is perhaps the transformation of public service systems. Changes to the public service system as a whole are ongoing and will continue in the future. Such measures include, for example, the establishment of the energy sector, the corresponding and inherent so-called holding public service system, or the adaptation of the water utility system in addition to the establishment of a public service holding system in relation to such other subjects. The government is constantly working towards a cost-effective and more secure system transformation of a sustainable public service, and the emerging phenomena, which you mentioned, will and will be transformed into all previous inefficient public service structures. However, these are only apparent problems, because they form part of the process of achieving a higher, more efficient system than before, and the quality creates and creates greater operational security. Between 2007 and 2013 253 sewerage and cleaning systems were converted to HUF 535 billion. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 194 drinking water quality assurance systems have been adapted, and this process will continue in the future in the period 2014-20. The aim is to establish non-profit schemes and prices for public service improvements through grants. Further systems will be built in the next period and the quality of public services will be improved continuously. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you all to keep up with the time frame. The next question is Mr Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Why will the budget for drug prevention be reduced next year? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-83	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, we continued to discuss the 2016 budget in part, and if someone was deepened in the study of the various chapter-based amounts, it could be seen that in order to prevent drug use, the government was planning a lower amount of HUF 355 million for the next year. It is only on the edge of the margins that they want to spend 600 million on national consultation even next year. In today's youth, especially in areas affected by poverty, the use of different drugs is increasing, and the use of so-called designer drugs is increasing not only in cities but also in villages, with countless names and unknown ingredients. Drug use already affects young children, 7-8-10-year-olds are better acquainted with these drugs and when they can be bought on the market than professionals. But many adults also flee to drug abuse from poverty, unemployment, and hopelessness. The way I see it, the government just wants to deal with the problem by law enforcement, to stop a problem that is almost impossible to deal with. By the time a new drug is banned, it will be replaced by ten others. That is why I am asking why budget resources for the prevention of drug use will be reduced next year. I also ask how much longer you want to bring him down and deal with the problem of increasing drug use with tenders. I also ask how much longer you want to discuss conferences, design protocols instead of taking immediate and real measures. And as you can read in the title, how many more people have to snap to get your head around it? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is no debate between us that the drug problem is a very important issue, a huge threat to young people, and that in recent years there has been a kind of change, to which the Member has also referred. Thus, the former drugs known by many, toxicologists, doctors, different cannabis, heroin, are switched to designer drugs, or even not young people that pose much more danger, because they are much cheaper, so they reach a lot more people, they have to be taken in a lot more than one day, so this increases the risk of infection and everything else. That is why we agree that much more money should be spent on prevention, drug prevention. We regard the direction of stricter criminal policy as appropriate, we do not wish to deviate from it, and if necessary, Fidesz-KDNP has always made the amendments to the Btk., which have acted as strictly as possible against traders, drug dealers, and has sought to explore the various supply or drug trafficking chains. At the same time, the national anti-drug strategy discussed by Parliament in the previous cycle has changed by opening up the strategy for drug prevention to strengthen those who have never tried it. We need to strengthen the state, we need to use resources to make sure that those who have never turned to drugs are on the right path, and not only those who have somehow come into contact with drugs, but also those who have been kept away from it. What you have said, Congressman, is a part of the resources, because we are actually using it from national sources, but the Human Resource Development Operational Programme, the EFOP, will be the main source of anti-drug programmes next year. In a tender system, more transparently, HUF 1.5 billion is available on this line to launch drug prevention programmes next year, 2016. I trust that the applicants will exhaust the entire amount, because it is a very important issue for the government, and we can save the lives of many. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why does the government punish hundreds of thousands of loving members of the Hungarian cycling society in another seven short years against previous promises? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government announced 760 kilometers of bicycle development. But what does that mean in real life? [[13.00]] This includes the renovation of the fallen, more than 200 kilometers of the Balaton Circle, i.e. only 70-80 kilometers of new cycling trips per year, while all types of cycling are becoming increasingly popular and the country is far behind in terms of bicycle infrastructure. Although cycling and cycling for leisure and sports would fundamentally improve tourist programs in each region, even the Budapest-Balaton Cycling Road has been promised for 20 years by the current government, and in this time hardly any progress has been made. It's nice to talk about a connected bicycle road network, but the reality of the last 8+5 years is that most of the most diverse quality and routed bike routes lead from scratch to nowhere. In general, in the current state, the majority of cycling routes in settlements only provide assistance for short journeys by local residents - shopping, kindergarten and close work. Longer road designers have to deal with unrealistic bypasses, ignoring the bike route, in many cases with the lane divided by pedestrians and sometimes unacceptable road quality. The social usefulness of setting up bicycle roads has been demonstrated in many ways. The national cycling concept and network plan itself provide a credible basis for this kind of exploitation of abandoned railway lines. So I ask: why hasn't there been any progress in this area? After they are banned from the main road, how long will there not be a realistic alternative route for those who are increasingly popular on the road for cycling and performance hiking? If they always refer to large infrastructure investments, what is the obstacle to ensuring bicycle transport on the routes to be renovated? Don't you think we should make less money for the vassals, and you'll be left with a half a meter wider concrete strip, asphalt strip for these purposes? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would also say that you can follow the example of London, where even wild ducks have a toddler band in the parks. Thank you very much. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State László Tasó. I'll give the chair to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-06-01-89	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I'd like to offer you my help. The next time you ask an oral question, I'd be happy to give you accurate information, because I heard from your question, your comment, that you don't have all the information. [[Ander Balázs: Thank you.]] Let me help you with that. Let me confirm that 750 km of road construction has already been announced by the government by 2020, but we hope that 1000-1500 kilometres will be the final length of the existing 4,000 km network. What is very important: beyond the complete development of the Balaton bike circle of 240 km, a number of bicycle routes will be built, and you may have heard about it, but we have just reopened the call for the transport operational programme, and now, only today, we have managed to sign five orders and orders; to be more precise, at least five municipalities can now expect more to complete their investment in the bicycle route. 534 kilometers of cycling paths or cycling lanes have been built from 2010 to 2014, and I am very confident that we are keeping the pace that we have been going on for the last five years. What is very important is that many campaigns in Hungary also help to promote cycling. It is also due to the fact that Hungary is third in Europe after the Netherlands and Denmark, where if people are asked, 22 out of 100 say that they choose the bicycle as the main means of transport. What is very important is that the construction of professional cycling routes along one, two and three-digit routes will create a chain, and in many places there are already connected systems. I am very confident that this will become visible. But if you remember, this Saturday was an extremely nice event: The bikers met in Ópusztaszer, and they announced seven programs to organize tours crossing the seven borders, thus promoting cycling in Hungary. So we're on the right track, and believe me, we're doing everything we can to move forward. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-01-90	Thank you, Secretary of State László Tasó. I salute my fellow Members. Sallai R. Benedicty and István Ikotity, representatives of LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-06-01-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The problem with most rescue stations is that they cannot start with the equipment, the car or the crew that meets the requirements. It's part of everyday service; you can refuse, but rescue workers can deny it. That's exactly where the problem comes from. How will the strengthened Balaton service be provided in the season? This cannot be guaranteed only in words. We have seen that in recent months there have been cases where ambulances are unable to arrive in time, so there are problems. The question is, what will happen when an increased number of ambulances will have to be present on Lake Balaton. Who else will go out on the alarms? The situation is aggravated by the fact that two weeks ago the rescue stations in Fonyód and Siófok were relocated to begin the renovations of the stations there. Interestingly, this has to happen at the beginning of the summer season. It is incomprehensible why they let the south shore rescue stations be renovated by the beginning of the Balaton season; they could have done so much earlier. Paramedics in Siófok, for example, are visiting firefighters in a room, which is, I don't have to say, not exactly suitable for the accommodation of paramedics sent there for the season. Because they're probably going to carry out redirections, so those rescue stations where there's only just one person and a car to save them are going to be in a difficult situation. Even the workers can't rest themselves in these places. And if they hire new people, they have to stay in a particularly sharp position during the summer season, learn this difficult profession, but the solution is not to turn taxi drivers into ambulances, as they have tried, although unsuccessfully. It would be good to employ trained, experienced people who have served before. Of course, for this to happen, we need to create conditions for as many people as possible to return. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And those who want to go back, take them back. Should new tragedies be expected on the shore of Lake Balaton in the summer?
u2015-06-01-92	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-01-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Obviously, I think we can all be happy when our rescue stations are renewed; this is called dynamics. We're even happier when new rescue stations are built. You know we're in a nationwide program where rescue stations are constantly renewed at intervals. Obviously, it always requires restructuring, whenever it is converted, developed, or, as I have just said, a rescue station for dynamics, and therefore temporary measures must always be taken to ensure that the rescue itself is safe and continuous. It's no different on the shore of Lake Balaton. In 2015, on the shore of Lake Balaton, we will again attempt to leave with enhanced service when this is needed on the part of the rescue service. In Balatonlelle, Fonyód, Lengyeltóti and Siófok on the southern shore, the National Ambulance Service launches additional services. The rescue motor service of OMSZ will be installed on Lake Balaton, as well as the operational management of the water rescue service in Balaton will be managed by the rescue service during these summer months, as well as rescue helicopters will be launched from Balatonfüred and Sármellék. In the framework of this TIOP programme, the rescue station in Siófok and Fonyód will be renewed. This obviously means renovation work in the coming months, but these work will be completed in October. The transfer/receiving of work areas takes place in the days. I think all Siófok and Fonyódi can enjoy that. As you said, the Siófok move temporarily to the building of the professional municipal fire department, while the Fonyódians are placed in a place provided by the municipality of Ordacheh. In addition to the temporary transfer of a rescue station, the care itself will be provided continuously and effectively. The staff will be fully adequate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the course of the year, we have tried to organise the number of people, even the management of clock frames, in such a way as to guarantee the rescue station provided in the summer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-01-94	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Will there be a sequel? It's an address. Mr Gábor István Harangozó has the floor.
u2015-06-01-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, On 11 May, I came to you with an immediate question on the subject of Balatonvilágos trash, after a question to the Minister of Agriculture, Sándor Fazekas, who also oversees environmental protection, was drawn from Minister's reply to a completely inoperable state administration in chaos, which seemed unable to resolve such a serious situation on his own. [[13.10]] That's why I asked you for help, and you promised me an extracurricular investigation and correct information. I have the good news - also for the public - that there has actually been progress in this matter, and I would also like to thank the Minister for his action on the removal of Balatonvilágos trash. At the same time, all deadlines have expired, and we still have no information on the outcome of the investigations, when the final and reassuring elimination of the landfill is expected. Meanwhile, Siófok's town notary informed the public that 30 tonnes of hazardous waste and 800 tonnes of shredded waste had been transported, despite previous claims that there was no hazardous waste on the site. Minister, I would like you to be able to cooperate effectively again in this matter in order to protect the people living in Balaton and to reassure the local people on the issue of remedial and recultivation, and although this case has taken a positive turn in spite of the rather bumpy operation of the administration, I believe you will see that the functioning of the authorities is inadequate and that you cannot take action on all such matters alone. I would therefore like to ask you whether we can expect you to take action, or intend to do so, in the defense of Balatonvilágos, in order to protect the people living in the region and in the interests of the people living in Balaton. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] review the functioning of the public administration so that it is not only possible to find individual solutions in such cases. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2015-06-01-96	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-01-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to inform the Parliament that, as of 1 April, the kind of territorial administrative integration that I think could be a condition of rapid and efficient administration, has taken place, in my view, through the most significant administrative transformation of the last 25 years. So today, at territorial administrative level, there is a single government office, almost 90 percent of the cases. Thus, after 1 April, in the case at hand, the Baranya County Government Office has the environmental inspectorate and authority which, by the way, should have taken action in recent years or decades. In my view, integration has a number of efficiency benefits and a number of advantages for the authorities, but I think it is of particular importance that all legislative and executive powers against the territorial administration can then clearly state their expectations, for example, the expectation of social sensitivity, that this procedure should not be initiated on the basis of an announcement of public interest, because on 8 March this procedure was not initiated on its own initiative, but on announcements and announcements of public interest. I expect the government office to be more sensitive and open to you or others, so it is also about the problems represented by the elected ones. Do not defend the honour of the munter, and do not try to subscribe and paper what has happened from the side of the state or authority, but to act effectively within the given framework. In addition, as far as I know, the tenant here is involved in transporting the waste, so maybe it's a little bit simpler than other cases. I am able to inform you that Mr Horváth has filed a complaint from Baranya County on 5 May against the order of waste management at the National Police Headquarters, and I have asked Mr.Zoltán Horváth, a government commissioner today, to have you and the representative bodies and elected officials at your disposal with a view to giving you direct information, so the government commissioner will be looking for you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-98	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2015-06-01-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, more and more cases have been reported by healers, either through the press or through social media, indicating a shortage of hospital meals. Without exception, the articles and reports address the qualitative and quantitative objection to hospital food rations, and they clearly show that patients are increasingly upset about the quality of food. It is common for a slice of giant Paris and a slice of bread to attend dinner, or for diabetic patients with white bread with sugar jams, but they have found insects and other inappropriate things in foods for young children. To sum up, the catering is unquality, unhealthy and unacceptable. According to pictures published in social media, we have nothing but shame, because patients in several other European hospitals have taken such footage, and it is safe to say that the shocking images on the Facebook website Hospital Dining clearly confirm that there is a serious problem with Hungarian hospital meals. Another problem is that, under the new EMMI regulation, which sets the framework for mass catering, it would also be necessary to comply with the meals that are going on from 550 forints, so that this fee has remained unchanged since 2009. It's really just a little butter, a slice of cake for dinner, and a tasteless soup for lunch. Dear Secretary of State, Answer me, please: when will you increase the amount for hospital meals? Why do they feel sorry for patients for good food? It is well known what the government feeds voters, but it is now clear what it feeds patients in health institutions. The scandalous state of hospital catering is another example of the money the government regrets spending on health care. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-100	Thank you, Congressman Luke. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-01-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Even today, if the Member has listened to the speeches, he has seen that, in the area of health, he has taken over 60 billion forints of health and hospital debt, or from last year to this year, the 6 percent increase in healthcare support - without this 60 billion without any increase - shows that the government is trying to seize every opportunity to remedy potential shortages in health and increase funding. Food itself, care is especially important in hospitals, as it can also positively affect the patient's recovery if he receives adequate quality, healthy and sufficient food. It is therefore important to amend the regulation, which has been implemented by the government in recent years, and will also verify its enforcement from 1 September this year. It came into force from 1 January this year, and according to the monitoring experience of the National Food Chain Safety Office, the health institutions are familiar with these standards and are obviously constantly introducing these healthier food standards, since the kitchens of hospitals are of high risk. Anyone who has a complaint can publish this not only on Facebook, but Nébih has opened a green number in order to make such complaints about food. What changes from September 1st to our plans means that more milk and milk products will be in front of patients, more vegetables, more fruit, more whole grains, much less salt, sugar and fat. Amenities, such as soup powders, are removed from the shelves of the kitchens, but healthy drinks may come before patients, such as the delivery of over-sugared tea in hospitals and other places where catering is provided under this Regulation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That this 550 HUF standard of raw materials is enough: it is a net amount without VAT, and we believe that, based on a careful and reasonable menu design, many hospitals can achieve a healthy meal from this. We hope that as many as possible will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-102	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, The last simple question: Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. The closure of the Kapuvar meat factory was unfounded? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2015-06-01-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Some of their lies have already been told by the court that they are lies. Just last week, I brought up the case of the Kishantos eco-economy, and this week, there was a rumor that the collapse of the Kapuvar meat factory had been declared by the court that the tax authorities had closed the accounts on the basis of false arguments. As we know, after a long struggle, the long-standing plant closed its doors, is in liquidation, and after several unsuccessful sales attempts and the indifferent attitude of the state, as I mentioned, Kapuvári Hús Zrt. won a lawsuit. [[13.20]] So it became clear that you and the IRS lied, which raises very serious questions, Mr. Secretary of State. I mean, it doesn't make any sense why the IRS closed the factory's accounts at an unprecedented rate. If irregularities by the government have not occurred, the closure at the end of 2012 and its consequences are all unacceptable. To this day, former workers still have unpaid wages. I think that after all of this, we really can't let them go. Find out also what personal responsibility the then Secretary of State of Gyula Budai has, since he himself justified the lack of State aid in relation to tax abuses, which the court has now stated were not such. Knowing the speed and precision of the Hungarian meat industry, some of its players, we must ask again whether you dare to claim it now, even in the light of this court ruling, the government has not taken such steps in the interests of one of the great meat players close to you, and these factory closures have not served its needs. Unfortunately, Kapuvár would fit in well in this picture, it would be worth talking to you honestly about this topic now, apologizing to the many families who came on the street and explaining why Jobbik had not accepted the proposal then that the factory should be in the hands of the baboon meat keepers, the baboon keepers. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-01-104	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Magyar. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-06-01-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, My first word must be a shock, an outrage, and a search for those responsible must be the first. A final judgment has now been delivered that the NAV's error has contributed to the collapse of that long-standing factory, which employs many people in the region. At the same time, I strongly reject the Member's statement that the agricultural portfolio would have put pressure on the tax authority for any third party, or in any way have played a role in the inability of companies to do so. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that tax matters do not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, nor is it possible for us to exert any influence on it. Please contact the competent ministry about the procedure of the tax authority. Besides, what the agricultural purse has done in recent years to save the meat industry in Kapuvar cannot be left without saying a word. I've tried to help workers and suppliers in a difficult situation on several occasions myself. The winding-up proceedings started at the end of 2012. In order for the liquidation of the companies to take place under orderly conditions, the government classified the companies as strategically high-ranking entities prior to the opening of winding-up proceedings. The winding-up of the National Reorganization Nonprofit Kft. has failed to sell the property on seven occasions by means of an open tender, giving preference to the sale at the same time, which would have best ensured the reopening of the meat plant. In February 2015, Bacon Kft. was sold at the price printed during the eighth sale. relatively modern equipment, liquidation completed. The Kapuvár Meat Company. To date, most of its assets have not been found by customers. I would like to inform the Member that a meeting with the local pig farmers was held in Kapuvar on 15 January 2014. Finally, I would like to express my hope that the truth will be revealed and that all those responsible for the collapse of the meat factory in Kapuvar will be found and held accountable. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-106	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: The same question about Buda-Cash as last time, but the recipient is different. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] BM didn't answer. And the Chief Prosecutor's Office? It's an address. [[Speaking of goose, be fat. Dr. Gergely Bárándy Novák To Elek: Do you understand? Novak Előd: Dog bite with hair! The president's ringing the bell.]] The Attorney General has appointed Mr. Ervin Belovics Deputy Attorney General in response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-06-01-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, Dear Professor, The law on investment firms and commodity services clearly separates the assets of customers from the assets of the company and therefore makes the assets available to customers on an off-balance sheet basis. It has to be true about the Buda-Cash case. However, it is clear that the confiscation of property following the subsequent final conviction of the perpetrators of the crimes at Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt. will not affect or affect the assets of the clients. Until now, however, no one has been given back this rightful return to him for months. We have tried to ask the same question to the Ministry of Interior, in particular to the Minister of the Interior, in more cases than you have now, Deputy Attorney General, which does not concern the way in which criminal proceedings are proceeding, but only the place under which this property has not been issued. The appellant referred to NNI's proceedings. As I said, and as the nature and address of the question indicate, we have not received an answer so far, so we were looking for another recipient, the High Prosecutor, who oversees the investigation and the legality of the investigation. According to new reports, this appeared two or three days ago, the investigative authority's practice on this subject seems to be changing. But I would ask the Deputy Attorney General to tell me, if this property cannot be released, why not, and if he considers it possible to issue it, can he confirm here, in front of Parliament, that, by law, these assets are returned to customers. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovics.
u2015-06-01-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the case concerning Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt., which is pending before the competent department of the Alert Police, National Bureau of Investigation, as referred to by the Member, forced action has been taken because of the crime and other crimes which have caused particularly serious damage. The legal basis for the seizure is the Criminal Procedure Act 151. Paragraph 159 of that Act, while the legal basis for the inclusion of the lock was laid down in Article 159 of that Act. As defined in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. I would disregard the content of the relevant legislation, since the Member is very clear about the text of these instruments, as I am. Following the investigation and the imposition of the forced measures, it was found, in the case of an otherwise very wide-ranging and complex case, that the facts had been clarified that accounts that were part of the client's assets were also blocked. Therefore, on 28 April 2015 Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt. was dissolved by the Asset Recovery Office in order to ensure legality. the entry under a lock on two of your payment accounts. The blocking of the accounts concerned has therefore been terminated and the arrangements for payment of the amounts entered in the accounts to customers are ongoing. The problem is constantly monitored by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the light of its importance and, if justified, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall act without delay in order to address the disadvantages faced by investors. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-110	Thank you very much. The congressman is entitled to a rejoinder in a minute.
u2015-06-01-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, The text of the answer was complicated, but I understood that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office agrees with my suggestion in this regard that these assets should be issued. [[Dr. Ervin Belovich says yes.]] If I'm mistaken, please correct me in your rejoinder. I consider this to be a step forward, and I am glad that, after a long process, the injured customers will eventually have access to their legitimate assets. However, I think it must be mentioned that it is not acceptable in principle that for months, although the legislation requires that this money goes back, they cannot act, and if someone could prove that it was due back to him, he could not get his assets back. So I think the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the police have both missed it, if nothing else, at least that it has been very late. Thank you very much. [[13.30]]
u2015-06-01-112	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Attorney General.
u2015-06-01-113	Thank you very much. It was essential to clarify the facts, namely, to discover who owns some assets. In the event that assets were returned on the basis of fictitious accounts that might later be found to be the owners of Buda-Cash, I think that there would have been a clear violation of the law. However, immediately after clarification of the facts, the property - and that's the customer's property - for which neither seizure nor confiscation nor confiscation can be legitimately held. So these assets must be returned to their rightful owners. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-114	Thank you, Assistant Attorney General Ervin Belovich. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Reward of the Worker." The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. She's shaking her head that she doesn't.
u2015-06-01-115	I appreciate it, Minister, but I would like to wait for Prime Minister because of the importance of the question. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-116	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What else do you need to hear the words of the workers in this sector? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. Congressman Sebestyén is responsible for this.
u2015-06-01-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On Friday, I attended a demonstration of social workers, which ended on Constitution Street, and one eye cried, and the other one laughed. One eye cried because, after all these years, we are still in an impossible position to live in social careers because of their low wages; in an impossible situation, living overnight. My other eye laughed because it was a pleasure to see such a cooperation within the sphere, and even representatives and advocacy organisations of other professions and other sectors participated in the demonstration to express their sympathy for the workers of the profession. I would like to prevent what Mr Secretary of State would say by listing what results have been achieved so far, listing what changes will be expected from 1 July. The employees of the sphere are aware of what has happened so far, what is expected, but they are not satisfied with it. Even on the basis of this, tens of thousands of people will remain below the minimum of living if this minimal, charity-like wage compensation is made on 1 July. The career model is nowhere to be seen, neither in the turn, nor in the 2016 budget, and those working in the sphere and advocacy organizations have calculated that wage development in the budget would require HUF 30 billion in order to be a minimum expected, or even to say that it is more normal in Hungary, because it is not European... - to live a life for those who choose this helpful, daily struggle and resignation profession. Do not have to be in a position of life that the client in front of them is in better financial conditions than they, who should be helped, are in a better existential state than those in the assisting profession. I expect a straight answer, not an evasive response, not a list. When are you going to be a normal career model? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-118	Thank you, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-01-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that everyone is aware of the superhuman work of those working in the social sphere, and everyone thinks that financial recognition is far from covering what they are doing for people who are in the most difficult situation many times, not only mental but also physical, working in a social institution in such a case. Therefore, the government, where it knew and saw that it had the opportunity to make a sectoral wage replacement or other salary increases, tried to do so. It is also because the work of these people is important, important in this sector, and you know that many of them leave, who also have a degree in health care, do similar types of work, or who has a teacher's degree, and who now receives a much higher wage in the teacher's career. Thus, the strange effect is that the careers or wage increases adopted in other sectors also absorb the labour force from this sector, and many people are thinking about choosing an increased career in other sectors. This is why it was important for us to introduce a sectoral wage substitute here as of 1 January 2014. This has always been held in recent years, and this budget line of HUF 12 billion has been continuously included and included in the budget. This is the first step in the wage increase here. On May 20, the government decided to provide additional funds in the 2015 budget for the resolution of wage tensions in previous years, which is HUF 7.6 billion, and then double that in the next year's budget. The reason for this is that, due to the high increase in the minimum wage, many people have raised their wages from those who earn less, while others, who have worked longer or have higher education, have not earned more than, if any, the same amount. For this reason, the government has now increased the salary of those with a higher professional education since 1 July. This is an additional HUF 7.6 billion, and in addition to the 7-8 thousand forints so far, we trust that 12 thousand forints can be added to the social workers' envelope every month. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-120	Thank you very much. Cutter Sebestyén deserves the rejoinder.
u2015-06-01-121	Thank you very much. That's far from being a career model. We do not need surrogates, we need wage compensation, we need a real career model, and what has been said there are employees of the social sphere, graduates who have been working in the profession for a long time, they will not leave anyone behind, unlike the government, who not only leaves people on the side of the road, but who kicks them into the ditch. They won't leave anyone behind, they won't leave the 30-40,000 people who are now left out of the 1st of July allowance and wage compensation. Please be a social career model. Here's the perfect opportunity, budget negotiation, budget acceptance. Accept our amendment, in which we would set aside HUF 30 billion for this purpose. Don't drag the lion's moustache, in the demonstration from people in the crowd, from social workers I've heard that they're going to go to the very end, they're probably going to take the same steps as those resistant a few years ago, and they might end up with civil disobedience. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-122	Thank you, Mr. Chamberlain. The rejoinder shall be granted to Mr. Secretary of State in one minute.
u2015-06-01-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It's probably just a slip of the tongue that said "resistance" instead of "residents." [[I wanted a resident.]] Both can be interpreted in health care, but it doesn't matter which one we deal with. What you said was 30 billion forints. You add, Congressman, that from the increase in the minimum wage, from the 12 billion in the sectoral wage supplement, from over HUF 7.6 billion in the next two years, we are almost there, and even if we add the minimum wage increase, we are ahead of the 30 billion forints you have proposed. And obviously, the personal income tax reduction leaves that income with the families. This is far from what we would obviously like to give, but the only difference in attitude that we have with the socialists is that we want to give these people a replacement wage, not out of loans, but from the performance of the economy, because it is sustainable or we do not want to take away a month's wages from them, as they did during the previous period during the MSZP-SZDSZ government. So you can see, here we are regularly and constantly trying to improve the situation of these people, and they can count on the government's support in the coming years. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-124	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why do they not remedy the problem that, from September, children between the ages of five and six cannot be asked for a kindergarten exemption? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, Congressman Ikotity. [[13.40]]
u2015-06-01-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It's been nearly a year since the major student experiment in schools. At the end of this year's academic year, the government should draw experience, correct mistakes, and inform the public about this. According to the government's decision, the new types of experimental textbooks reached 1501 schools last September. So, in public education institutions, they started a large-scale student experiment, so to speak, they're testing the new textbooks on 100,000 students. The LMP said it was irresponsible to start an experiment like this last year. We found out that the new books did not go through any kind of professional authorisation, that these books could have been completely bypassed by the Education Office. Since then, we have seen what a problem this is, because based on the feedback from schools, there is a serious problem with these experimental textbooks, and unfortunately this is only half of the problem, because the situation is no better than some of the state textbooks that are on the short list. In addition to the flagrant errors, the LMP also drew their attention to some illegal content and took action. The main problem is that the structure of the new textbooks is tangled, its structure confused, its logic in many cases incomprehensible. It's just that, and it's not what we say, it's the teachers, these books are lousy for teaching, they're crawling with technical inadequacies and inaccuracies. How does the government react to these mistakes? Are they willing to undergo the real authorisation procedure for these experimental textbooks, or are they still afraid that they will fail this professional control? What kind of books fall into the hands of students in September? Are errors corrected? How does this student experiment continue? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-06-01-126	Thank you very much, Congressman Ikotity. I respectfully ask the representatives of the MSZP not to hold the faction meeting here as far as possible. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-01-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You can say - and if you are talking to teachers, you can see - that if a textbook was written earlier, in which there was a mistake, it took up to ten years to correct that deficiency, that error, or even that mistyping, mistyping. We thought that we were going to develop a new kind of textbook, not only those textbook writers and scientists who may have been involved in the production and development of textbooks, who may have been involved before or with people with similar competences, but also involve teachers and students, and be more quality in Hungarian textbooks, and develop their final version through the experience of many students. This is not a unique plan. You know that research and development-based textbooks are being developed in other countries, especially in northern countries. At the same time, the quality assurance process itself was even more stringent than in all other textbooks. Here, too, the National Textbook Council has, of course, commented on these textbooks. A work was carried out in which we used to involve university professionals and research workshops, as well as professional, scientific, pedagogical and language researchers individually checked these volumes. And then the first year began, where we pay each teacher a special fee of HUF 40,000 a month, so that if you are involved in this textbook development, you can rewrite the experiences that he would like to improve. Thus, the most extensive textbook author or textbook quality assurance system will have exactly the experimental textbooks, or it should be remembered that the introduction of experimental textbooks will give students access to these textbooks at a fraction price. These are protected by copyright in some respects, but since it is a public treasure, we put it on the national textbook portal that everyone else [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You can download it, you can watch it. It's a public treasure that needs to be delivered to as many students as possible, not profitably. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-01-128	Thank you very much. Congressman Ikotity has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2015-06-01-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you know that if you miss a textbook, you don't have to wait ten years, because there's a permit procedure in there at least once. These errors occurred in a much smaller number in previous years, subject to a much more thorough examination by the Education Office. This criterion has not been met for these textbooks. That's what we're asking, why can't this be done with another run at one of these things? You are referring to the textbook council - you may recall, Mr Secretary, that you have not had a year, there have been great scandals around this body, because there have been people who have left this council on the basis of the quality of textbooks. I think that's a very bad argument, and we can see all the mistakes in these textbooks. Perhaps this experiment should not be conducted with students and teachers of this size. The design of textbooks is one of the few things [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Which is not the democratic procedure that students will decide what they learn from, at least to write their own textbooks. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-06-01-130	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, How many places these textbooks have been ordered will in itself contradict the Members' statements. Obviously, it is not about students writing the textbook, but it is about how, when teachers see how students can adopt that pedagogical method, they lead this working day worker, and they return it to the Institute of Education and Development, to what extent pedagogical methods we try as modern, new pedagogical methods in these books or are destined to be introduced in these books. If you look at these textbooks, compare them with your own textbooks, they probably weren't that long ago when you learned from them, but it's not comparable to the editing environment of the two, your visual world, your breaking, you're much more interested in young people. That is why we believe that it is much more informative, and we can be proud that the Hungarian textbook market is renewed, and that the most modern books had to be developed by the state, not by the market bookmakers, so that we can increase the knowledge of young people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In addition, this saves students and the budget a billion and a half forints. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-01-132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Newcomers are coming and getting hungry? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Bitay Márton as Secretary of State for his urgent public service. I'm asking you if you'll accept the Secretary of State's identity for the answer. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman János Pócs.
u2015-06-01-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have had an educational week to negotiate the 2016 budget. The opposition advocates of the agricultural debate did not hide the fact that for them self-interest is much more important than the public interest. Our fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, defended the interests of the large owners of Hortobágy with tears, indiscriminately addressing everyone in this House. His heart bleeds to Zoltán Gőgös, because his friend István Lajtos, at the time of socialist government, put his hands on 2200 hectares of state land in Hortobágy National Park, for less than 3,000 forints per hectare. That was a third of the market price at the time. This meant a total of 370 million HUF per year, or more than 1 million forints per day, state support to the socialist buddy. As you know, around this time Zoltán Gőgös was the Secretary of State of the Wallet. Dear fellow Members, Fortunately, this time has passed, but new ones have come and are getting hungry. We have recently heard that our colleague, Sallai R. Benedek LMP, wrote about himself in his post recently, and I quote him: "It is not easy to live the life of the new agri-ligarchs. [[Defiance.]] Further quote from the entry of Sallai R. Benedict:. If I wasn't sanctioned by that damn MVH a year, I'd have a chance to push the area into another 3 mil. Yeah, they're new, and they're getting hungry. Continuing from Sallai R. Benedek's diary, my wife hates Fidesz even more now, and I'm not writing down what she said about Fazekas. And still quoting the agricultural baron of LMP, because in his diary he calls himself that, about some dreaming [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is also mentioned when he calls Sándor Csányi his colleague and wishes to catch up with him. [[Defiance. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Was he really sent to Parliament to dream of his own gain? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The examples mentioned above... [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi.]]
u2015-06-01-134	Congressman!
u2015-06-01-135	... are examples of the fact that in many cases our fellow Members are guided by self-interest. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-01-136	Congressman, I remind you that you had two minutes. I'm asking you in the future... and that doesn't just apply to you. I'll give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay. [[13.50]]
u2015-06-01-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It seems to me that there is an increasing gender-free debate in this House about this land for farmers' programmes. On the one hand, the most painful thing is that there are a lot of people who know exactly what happened in this program, but they say something else, let's say, in the walls of the National Assembly. If, let me say, you mentioned to me, Mr Gumblings, that it is repulsive to worry about small farmers at the time of his secretary of state that the 600,000 hectares of state land were covered with about 600 contracts, there are now more than 7500 farmers for the same quantity. I would like to point out, let's say, those 53 major estates that rented more than 500 hectares each. There are now more than 1,500 new winners in this area, and the number of young farmers is about the same. But what Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai is doing is equally repulsive, he knows precisely, because in the morning he cultivates the soil he uses, and in the afternoon he comes into Parliament, puts on his jacket and says that it is only possible to win the land with a political backwind, say, in the programme for the farmers. In the morning he says at home how good is the area payment he receives, he pockets, say, about HUF 16 million after 240 hectares, he comes to Parliament in the afternoon and says that only the big ones receive agricultural support. The most annoying thing about this is that we are constantly discussing the facts, to be exact: opposition representatives talk about the facts and refuse to notice that about 80 percent of state land use is now used by natural persons in small farms, even those who otherwise win this land for farmers, whether through their own Kft. or via a business net or through a nice wife. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Pócs in return.
u2015-06-01-139	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, He said in his reply that Sallai R. Benedek cultivated land in the morning; also a literal quote from his diary, where he misses farming, he writes: "So, I'm running my mouth, what else can I do from a starting politician to an agricultural oligarch. Ladies and gentlemen, We may remember when, on St. George's Day, Sallai R. Benedek gave his speech in a smug way. I think this is an example today: if the wolf hides in sheep's clothing, it does not make him lambier, but more wolfy. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-140	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-141	That is right, I think that the problem is not, by the way, that the Member wins the land for the farmer's programme, and as a farmer in Turkeve, he can win the land for the farmer's programme. The problem is that then he comes into Parliament and says that the only way to win is with a political backwind. And my statement is that your own sentences are self-contrasting, because you can very well see that this is not so. If you are a beginner politician, I wish you good luck with this; 240 hectares of land is not small, but I think that this is still a family medium size category, and I hope that in the coming years we will be able to give farmers more land for use, and more winners of state land. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-142	Thank you, Secretary Bitay. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question, who gave the advice on Paks? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2015-06-01-143	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, At its post-government press conference held on 14 May, the following were discussed: looking for three international managers, financial managers, staff managers and CEOs for the transparent and more economical operation of Paks I. They are confident that the move will bring acceptable results for the government and the budget as well as for the international public, he said. Dear Minister, Safety is always the first priority in the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Transparency and transparency in nuclear energy are indisputable. This cannot be overwritten by any economic and political interest. At every moment, the nuclear power plant is supervised by the profession at all levels. The IAEA, the Director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said: in our experience, the current operators of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant are competent professionals, there are a series of guarantees that this management will do its best to maintain and secure nuclear safety. With your announcement, Minister, that at the end of May, you will replace the staff of the power plant now operating with its own professionals and replace it with a foreign bounty hunter looking for international managers, you have created uncertainty in those working there. But ever since Pakson first cut, any government could come, that approach was the basis of everything so that people could do their job and not get involved in politics. Now an insecure, bad work mood is starting to develop among the workers. Paks doesn't need a management approach. He needs expertise. Leaders must live with the problems and problems of the workers there, and even understand how the blocks work. It's okay for people working there to speak the same language. That is why I ask: to whom would you like to ensure transparency through the planned replacement of the leaders? What was the basis for this decision? Are you most concerned with operational security or more economical operation? Do you plan to reduce the number of employees in Paks? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-06-01-144	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-01-145	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House of Representatives, Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Member for the persistent work he has done over the past period and I hope he will continue to do in the future with regard to the operation and capacity maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. His work on Paks I can give us all hope that he will vote alongside Paks, unlike his party in terms of Paks expansion and capacity maintenance. Thank you, as far as I know, for being at the public hearing, represented, I believe, the faction, and several people about Paks. I would like to thank you for your work in helping everyone to learn about this problem and to develop a fair dialogue on this issue. Firstly, through you and through the public, I would like to reassure all of Paks' employees that the government does not want to make things worse, but wants to improve the current good functioning. It is not that we want to make any change to the safety of operations or to the detriment of maintaining and operating nuclear capacity. We would like the company's finances, staff affairs and central management to be sufficiently transparent for everyone, especially for the international professional public. No one doubts the security guarantees, but we would like to see full transparency in terms of operation and operation. There is no reason I didn't talk about technical management, technical management - I told you about financial, staff management and the composition of the board - with the technical directorship, I believe, on the basis of the safety results, we can all be satisfied. Our aim, of course, is to ensure that after 25 years the Parliament, the budget, the legislator and the executive authority understand exactly the price of electricity being produced here, the price at which it will be transferred to the Hungarian Electricity Works, the price at which it will be re-saled, and the price at which it will eventually be transferred to the individual household of those represented by you or those represented by me. So we want to see the process accurately and make it accessible to everyone. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-146	Thank you very much. The congresswoman shall have a rejoinder.
u2015-06-01-147	Thank you very much. As I said, the International Atomic Energy Agency oversees us at any moment and professionally oversees the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Operational security is guaranteed by the full management, their responsibility is the entire plant safety and nuclear safety today in Paks. You announced 2018 as the year of construction. Compared to this, the educational program is now being launched. In three years, how will there be skilled workers who know how to do this, and how will there be engineers? I think that today we cannot reduce the number of Paksons, there are professionals there who will stand up for them in the next period, and that is why those who work there today will be able to work there in the future, if you have not started education in time, so that young people can easily join in. So I'm asking you to leave it to the profession, and I recommend to you your book, Benjamin Szabó's Atomic Image, in which you can see that if politics interferes with this issue, it's never good. Thank you.
u2015-06-01-148	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-06-01-149	First of all, I would like to reassure you and all my interested fellow Members that the government has chosen the consulting company in the person of Spencer Stuart with a view to finding the right managers. This is the world's best and greatest American energy expert company, and this is the only person in the company who has nuclear energy experience. [[14.00]] On the other hand, on 16 June, Paks, together with my colleague from the mayor of Paks, we will invite the 41 municipalities concerned, all the mayors, all the representatives involved in the constituencies and you, in order to make the programme transparent and accessible to everyone. On the other hand, on this day, I would like to meet the union leader of Paks I and, of course, the company's leadership, so that we can talk about all the current issues. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-150	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2015-06-01-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, JNT Security, owned by Magyar Posta, with 594 employees, is not open to consulting employees, which, I cannot stress enough, is particularly unacceptable in the case of a state-owned company. 'Cause what is it about? Based on the results of the balance sheet adopted in 2013, Magyar Posta refuses to grant the claims to the employees of the company he owns, which generate a profit of HUF 1.3 billion. Without blushing, it may not be possible to say that the union would like to achieve an average 5% increase in basic wages and an increase of 22 thousand HUF/person/year in benefits outside the wage. This represents HUF 1835 at the last monthly level. Employees have been inefficiently negotiating with the employer for months, so in order to improve their vulnerable situation, they have envisaged a cessation of work within the framework of the laws. Instead of a settlement, the union manager was fired from the company, and the negotiations were suspended during the strike. I note that the freedom of trade union officials to speak and express their views in this part of Europe for two and a half decades is not appropriate to limit, especially not to retaliate. I trust that the principles announced by the Prime Minister will not remain at the level of the slogans, and that instead of force, they will follow the policy of attention. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Minister to take account of the family members of the workers, please help to reach an agreement as soon as possible between JNT Security and those on strike. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-152	Thank you, Vice President Sneider. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-01-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the question of my fellow Member, which seems to be on a peripheral issue, but it is very important because the Hungarian state, such as the legislative and executive authority, has a reason to have a responsibility and responsibility for the operation of Magyar Posta. You well quoted that Magyar Posta, along with the liberalised market conditions, is a profit-making undertaking; it is mainly because its operational efficiency has improved by not firing people, while we have managed to secure significant reservations in new markets, such as the logistics market, in addition to classical postal services. This means that Posta has a fantasy, it is right to try to keep the Posta competitive despite changing circumstances. One of the very important points of this is their own value transmission network and the company JNT, which is a business owned by Posta, and its task is to support Posta's cash flow, in the context of otherwise privatised cash transmission, as its own cash transport company. This will achieve significant cost savings; this is a strategic sector, we have no intention of outsourcing or trusting others. In any case, we would like to have the values delivered to the Post Office by a company that is majority-owned in public or postal interest. This is a very important thing, I believe, which is why I followed the strike mood and the strike situation that has taken place. I asked Mrs Lászlóné Németh, Minister of State, my former colleague, to try to reach a settlement between the union and the management of the company, even if, by the way, only a part of the 600 workers took part in the strike, and by the end of the strike, participation fell below 10 percent compared to the employee ratio, so only 10 percent or less of the total workers were on strike. I also believe that there is a need for consultation if these workers are earning more than the national average at the moment. So we are prepared to agree, not to weaken the JNT, but to strengthen it in the next period. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-154	Thank you, Minister. I'll give the vice president the floor in return.
u2015-06-01-155	Dear Minister, There is no problem with the economic concept, and this can be supported, but it is indeed the interests of workers. Of course, they earn more than the national economy average, but they do not just any work, as they can be attacked at any time, they are armed guards, money transporters, who are obviously not allowed to be employed in public work today in Hungary. That's why it's perfectly fair, I think, that's a five-percent claim. However, the way you, your ministry, came to this question was not the most beautiful. It wasn't the most beautiful, because they wanted to hand over their petition, and there was no one on your side. I don't think it was a big deal to take over the pre-arranged petition from the strikers, the heads of the strikers. I trust that in the form of a letter, or at least by post - hopefully the Post has delivered your employees' letter - the Minister has received it, but since I am not 100 percent sure of that, allow me to pass on the petition which I myself have not been able to pass on to any employee. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Tamás Sneider gives the petition to János Lázár.]]
u2015-06-01-156	Thank you very much. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder after taking over the petition. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-06-01-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to confirm that, in relation to JNT, the aim of the government and Posta is to strengthen the company, so it is not in our interest to engage in any kind of dispute or conflict with colleagues working there, because it is in our interest to have calm relations there, so that JNT, as a postal company and as a partly state-owned business, takes positions in the money market, for example in banks that are currently in public interest in the short or long term: Budapest Bank, MKB, Savings Bank, savings cooperatives. Together, this is a huge opportunity for JNT. I've called the Post Office for this evening, as well as the Secretary of State, Lászlón Németh, and I'm going to ask you to start a separate trial based on your suggestion. I consider the peaceful and normal settlement of this debate to be particularly important and in the interest of the state. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-158	Thank you, Minister Lazarus. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On Dr. Imre Vejkey's signal:]] It says yes. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2015-06-01-159	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, A number of initiatives have been launched in recent months to improve the humanitarian situation in Transcarpathia and Ukraine. The ravages of the war-torn eastern Ukraine soon spread to the western parts of the country, where, in addition to the Ukrainian-Russian-Russian minority, a significant Hungarian minority lives. Family daily livelihoods are at risk not only because of generally low wages, but also because of inflation throughout the country. For the sake of illustration, I say that in the past period in Transcarpathia utility charges have increased three to four times the previous period. The unparalleled cooperation from Hungarian and other border areas in Hungary during winter has helped to alleviate the population deprivation, but I think that now, with good weather, it is also necessary to help our fellow Hungarians and other nationalities living on our eastern borders. Several organizations have participated in the collection of aids offered so far, including the Hungarian Catholic Church and Karitiz, the Reformed Charity Service, the Maltese Charity Service, but also several NGOs and local communities. I would like to note here that the parliamentary faction of KDNP has specifically supported our Hungarian brothers in Transcarpathia. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what material or material assistance our country can offer to the Hungarians of Transcarpathia and Ukraine. I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]] [[14.10]]
u2015-06-01-160	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-01-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is an issue that I trust is an important issue for all parties, and so is being dealt with, because in Transcarpathia and Ukraine as a whole, we have not, fortunately I can say, met much in recent decades, with income depreciation and, in addition, an increase in the cost of living, the Ukrainian and Transcarpathian families, as you have said, have simply been unable to recover, as energy prices have increased several times, the fees have increased several times, while money and income are being absorbed. Thus, no family has the opportunity, there is no adequate framework to pay their own bills, not to mention how they get food afterwards, how their families get clothes, how they manage to raise the money they need to survive. Therefore, there is an increased need for all kinds of help in Transcarpathia. I felt that everyone in Hungary felt that this was an extraordinary situation, which had not come up before. We have talked about several collections here more than once; if I take our own small community as an example, our own parish, in recent decades, we have never received a donation as big as the one on Sunday when the Catholic Church collected donations to help the Transcarpathians, not by 10-20 percent, but by hundreds of percent more donations, because there is a huge problem in Transcarpathia. The five members of the Charity Council, some of which you mentioned, Maltese Charity Service, Catholic Charity, Hungarian Red Cross, Hungarian Reformed Charity Service and the Baptist Charity Service Foundation, as well as the United Hungarian Israeli Community, Johannita Help Service, St. Luke Greek Catholic Charity Service, will bring a donation of eight trucks to Transcarpathia in the next few days, part of it to Transcarpathia and the other beyond the Carpathians. A shipment of EUR 132 thousand in total, long-lasting foods, mainly for the Carpathian region, medical aids and medicines for the other part of the Carpathian region. These things started packing up this morning. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2015-06-01-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-163	Dear Secretary of State, I must thank you for your response and say that the Hungarian Government is morally doing the right thing by sending further aid to Ukraine every day, because the situation of those living there is, unfortunately, hopeless because of the economic policy dictated by the IMF, and thus the continued increase in overhead, the depreciation of wages and rising unemployment. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of ethnic advocates.]]
u2015-06-01-164	Thank you very much. Sixty-second rejoinder for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-01-165	Thank you very much, Mr President, including the warning. What is important for the Hungarian state, and what is completely different from the policy of support of earlier times in this extraordinary situation, is that we have also tried to support children's meals in Ukraine, in Transcarpathia, so to help the Hungarian families whose children go to Hungarian school and there we try to provide this kind of service, because a good part of the families will not be able to afford it. Obviously, we try to help all kinds of communities, educators, and others. We also pay particular attention to the possibility for more Hungarian children in Transcarpathia to spend a week or two in peaceful conditions in Hungary during the summer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-01-166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The Fidesz does not have a miracle weapon called "Against Poverty." The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. You have the floor, Congressman László Teleki.
u2015-06-01-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, More than once in the past, we have heard within the walls of Parliament what a big problem poverty is today in Hungary, and in recent times, several research and surveys have also been published that draw attention to this issue by the government, but also to society, that this issue needs to be addressed. The previous couple mentioned the situation in Ukraine, where they mentioned child poverty, and I would also like to mention child poverty in Hungary, that there is a very big problem, despite the fact that I have heard and seen in the budget the numbers they want to devote to this. But I still think that by closing the school, when the schools close in two weeks, a lot of children may not be able to get the opportunity to get warm food at least once, not to mention weekends, when there is no institution for children on Saturday-Sunday. I would like to ask you what you can offer parents, children, in this weekend's situation to reduce child hunger, so that as few children as possible or no children are left hungry during the weekends. But the same is true for many people who have experienced poverty, who work in vain every day, but can only save so much - if the savings - what their monthly bills mean, and can serve the basis of their monthly livelihoods, but let alone set aside, but they really can't make a living at the end of the month, what they plan to do with their benefits and care, because that question is very important. And the third question, I think, concerns nearly 120,000 people. I have already said several times here within the walls, just this morning, the Committee rejected my request for the liquidation of the Roma settlements, which was aimed at an amount for the closure of the settlements in the budget. That didn't show up. I just want to let you know that nearly 120,000 people are going to starve there because they don't have any supplies. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-168	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári for two minutes.
u2015-06-01-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Although the government does not have a miracle weapon against poverty, it has a very important tool, and this is work and job creation. Everyone knows, everyone knows that the greatest danger is those people who have no job in terms of poverty. For this reason, the 400,000 new jobs that the Fidesz-KDNP government has been able to create over the past five years have been safe for perhaps 400 thousand families, the security to escape poverty or to get as far away from it as possible. We would like to pursue this policy primarily by creating jobs, because if parents have a job, then obviously, feeding children is not such a problem. And obviously, we support child rearing with family taxation and support for families. As you know, in the family-type tax system, there is about HUF 20,000 more left in the family today than five years ago, and family members are obviously able to use it to feed the child. But by reducing the cost or by issuing foreign currency loans, all of them have been able to ease the burden on families, to a lesser extent, and to a greater extent. The resources spent on feeding children, you know very well, Congressman, as you have pointed out, have doubled over the last five years, and from 1 September this year we will extend the possibility of free meals for the smallest children to those where the net income of the family is less than 130 percent of the minimum wage per capita. In addition, the budget spends a record amount on summer social catering this year, and you know it. This rose from HUF 2.6 billion to HUF 3 billion. The operational programme, which we call the food package programme, also includes HUF 29-30 billion from EU funds and HUF 4 billion from national sources, precisely to support children aged 0-3 years. From the age of three, compulsory kindergartening within the system of public education has solved multiple meals for children. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-170	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Teleki.
u2015-06-01-171	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, to the fact that the EU has also issued a communication, a resolution that there is a huge increase in public workers' wages in Hungary and that it has written that they should try to focus more on the primary labour market. I would like to suggest this to you, too, because I think it is more important, because public employment is very important, as I have said many times, so it is an important element, but we also need to look at the outcome side, whether there is an outcome side of this public employment; if there is, I think that what you are saying can be accepted. But right now, we don't see what kind of solutions there are. And the other, I can see and sense perfectly what you're saying and reality isn't synchronized. They are not in sync because there may be amounts in the budget that you mentioned and I can see, but there is still no way to say that all children in Hungary will be well fed during the summer; there is no way to say that all workers' poverty will disappear. I know it's impossible to expect this from a government, but I don't see the ambition fully in this budget. [[14.20]]
u2015-06-01-172	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2015-06-01-173	Honourable Congressman, If you show me another government in the last 25 years that has doubled the amount of resources that can be spent on children's meals during the year, you may well criticize us. But if you can't find a government that has doubled these amounts from 1990 to today, then I think your criticism is not exactly on a strong footing. This is the result of Tarki's research, as there has been a significant reduction in the risk of poverty in households with children. That's what the Tartar's research told you. Which means spending money on public employment, we believe that they will be put in one of the best places if we can give people a much greater amount than aid for some socially useful activity, not to mention that we have been able to use the job protection action plan for your intended purpose. And if I may give you one more piece of information: for example, this has resulted in the lack of two-day meat consumption in the last two years being a problem of 580,000 fewer people than before; so for 580,000 people, this type of eating problem is no longer a problem as a result of the government's policy. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-174	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Ikotity with great respect for his attention. Do I understand correctly that the problem of not asking children between the ages of 5 and 6 to attend kindergarten in a special situation from September is not solved? Did you not accept the person of the replyer and ask the Minister to answer the second question in the hour of immediate questioning? [[István Ikotity: Yes.]] Then it's okay. And István Ikotity, the representative of the LMP, did another immediate question to the Prime Minister's Office:. When is the hand of Prime Minister Flórian Farkas finally released? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-06-01-175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Possibly Other Politics has revealed in the order of 100 million in terms of wasteful, infidelity management and corruption in connection with the program "bridge to the world of work." We have pointed out amazing expenses in office purchases, furniture and computer purchases, overhead costs, car rentals, petrol cost accounting, team building, studies, and so on. By far, we are talking about spending beyond reasonable expectations. The head of the project is the National Roma Municipality, the former head of which is Fidesz Parliamentary Representative, Vice-President of the Group, Prime Minister, who is also involved in the scandalous programme, as he is the head of the employment cooperative managing the project's resources. When we asked the government to investigate the program earlier, there was hardly anything going on. In recent weeks, however, the case has taken a new turn: LMP's report has finally led to the launch of the investigation, the NAV has invaded the ORÖ's headquarters and seized documents, which were found at the headquarters at all, since the destruction of documents was already underway. In addition to the scandal in the work world, several other scandals erupted around the ORÖ's house, all sorts of economic accounting cases related to Flórian Farkas. Dear Minister, As the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, do you personally have the confidence of Prime Minister Flórian Farkas after what happened? Is the government standing up for Flórian Farkas unbroken? Do they still have complete confidence in him? Can the Vice-President of the Fidesz Group remain a prime minister, can he remain a Member of Parliament? I look forward to the Minister's reply.
u2015-06-01-176	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-06-01-177	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, How fortunate that Member did not just accept my fellow Member Bence Rétvári's reply, so I have to take the stand on this issue now. If I may, I would like to begin by saying that I hope we do not have to hold the hand of Minister Flórian Farkas, given that he stands on his own. In the Hungarian State, especially in the Government of Viktor Orbán, it is a fundamental requirement that the law be observed, that the wealth entrusted to him be dealt with with with the care of the good farmer, and that, in any respect, the legality be exercised in the office entrusted to him. Anyone who cannot do this for himself will eventually have to bear the consequences. So I hope that my fellow Member, Flórian Farkas, will stand on his own two feet and we will not have to hold his hand. On the other hand, I have repeatedly told you, Congressman, that careful and thorough scrutiny is extremely important in these matters. As far as I know, you met with Minister Zoltán Balog in April, who also informed you about this. As far as I know, the police are investigating this case on the basis of several reports and announcements of public interest, and as far as I know, the investigation that took place in the EMMI is pending, and I understand that the Minister of Human Resources is giving you an insight. I believe that in the case of accusations raised in relation to any leader, organizational management of a community with a cumulative disadvantage, in Hungarian society and especially the elected representatives, special care is required, particularly careful procedure when any accusation is made, since such accusations, funds or funds can be handled very easily. And if a leader makes a mistake or a leader makes a mistake, it is not yet certain that the case is wrong or that this cannot call into question the need for assistance from social groups who have entrusted their representation to the Member. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-01-178	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Ikotity will respond in return.
u2015-06-01-179	Thank you. Dear Minister, We consider catching up to be particularly important on the part of Possibly Other Politics, and we consider it particularly important that this large amount of money that we are talking about should reach the people who need it the most, for whom this catching-up programme is taking place. When we started looking at this program, we realized the problems, the suspected abuses, and began to explore them in different ways. When we made the complaint to the police, the proper procedure was initiated. We would like that side of this procedure not only to appear, because we are here in Parliament, and it would be good to have at least one political person responsible for this. That is why I asked you this question, and I asked you whether you fully trusted Flórian Farkas, who is not here. His responsibility is clearly not questionable, which is why we are interested in his role in this, whether he has the responsibility or who has the responsibility. Thank you.
u2015-06-01-180	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-06-01-181	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Confirming all that I have said so far, I can only underline that if our fellow Member Flórian Farkas cannot clarify his role in matters, which, by the way, has proved to be illegal, the Prime Minister will, of course, withdraw his trust from him, that cannot be a question. That is why I said at the beginning, in this government, it is very important that whoever is entrusted with this task should consider legality to be the primary line of gold for himself and for the case he represents. This also applies to my fellow Member, Flórian Farkas. However, the possibility must be provided, especially in the context of today's public relations, that Flórian Farkas can prove that he has done the right thing, and that the issue of Gypsy in Hungary is much more important than sinking the cause of this important issue into a political battle. Therefore, I ask you and your party to give us the opportunity to clarify relations between the ORÖ and this organization, and the justice system can act on this matter, so that we can be sufficiently clear. I'm asking you for caution and fairness. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-01-182	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr László Varju, an independent Member of the Council after the agenda:. The most important events of the past week? It's an address. You have the floor within a five-minute time frame. [[14.30]]
u2015-06-01-183	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In my view, it is quite certain that the most important events of the past week are environmental issues when local citizens, I would say, have been able to clarify the situation in Várpalota as a result of their rebellion and to withdraw the bad government decision to place particularly dangerous waste in Castle Palace. This process, with the Democratic Coalition and the Inota Association starting it on the ground, I believe that in many respects it is the merit of civil society organisations and the Castle Palaces who have done their best to prevent Várpalota from being among the dirty 12 cities, and in the future the government will not make this worse by placing hazardous waste in the dump. This situation may have developed - and I regret that Mr János Lázár has just left the room - because in his recent comments a few minutes ago, he also mentioned how effectively the administration works and how quickly the single government administration system, the environmental authority, is able to issue permits, he said on another question. About the same thing happened here, that the permits for the disposal of waste were issued very quickly. This includes - and I would like to draw attention to this - the fact that, outside the authority, based on our knowledge so far, the body of representatives of the municipality did not know about it and has not taken a decision. So with anyone, with any municipality, it may be that the authority issues permits while the municipal office, the body of representatives, does not know about this. I would like to draw attention to the need to avoid and avoid this in the future, so this administrative procedure must certainly be reviewed, or it must be clarified who was responsible for exactly what happened in this case. But, of course, the case does not stop with the fact that as a result of the struggle of the Castle Palaces, the waste will not be disposed of here - but where will it go next? I would like to draw the attention of the public to imagine a journey through a small settlement - we are in Zagyvaszántó - where on the right side of the road there are family houses, children live, families live, and on the other side there are tens of thousands of tons of waste contaminated with the most dangerous blue asbestos, which is even moved along the way. It's true they're trying to water it, but these masked people in white are trying to do all this by following some rules. At the same time, we know that in this area, in recent years, since this irregularity, the irregular breakdown, 14 people have died since then, 8 people have already turned to the state for compensation, and the situation that has developed there has still not been found responsible. This happened three years ago. A total penalty of HUF 8 million has been imposed, and we already know that the previous project requires HUF 1300 million of money in order for the remediation to be possible. When does the handcuffs click on the hand of the man who did all this? But more importantly, to save those people from this danger and the disadvantage that this hazardous waste is still there, it is the government's responsibility to take action within a very short period of time to ensure that those people, such as the retirement home that is in the immediate vicinity of this corporate establishment, are not only told by an air pollution meter that they are not in danger at this moment or are in danger, or that it is the child's institution on the other side of the corner that is in danger. So I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Government from here to taking action as soon as possible in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-184	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Bernadett Szél has also applied for a post- Agenda address, May Other is Politics:. That's one way to debate! It's called the 3rd. It's a five-minute time frame for a congresswoman.
u2015-06-01-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I started this series because it seems to me that the debate in the Hungarian Parliament is not usually about and mostly not about the country's benefits, but what I see most is that in many cases you, my fellow members of the Government, do not hear the voice of the Hungarian people. In many ways, we live in times of distress, and I would like to recall outstanding moments here in the Hungarian Parliament. I've recalled Anna Kéthly, Emmeline Pankhurst, and now we're going to have a speech here, not too far from this house, specifically on the other side of Kossuth Square, this Friday at the social worker protest. Andrea Varga, president of the Autonomous Regional Union, was the one who gave this speech. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I've had a painful realization. I don't know what to say. Because there are times when words can't get to the finish line. There are situations when speech is no longer powerful. There are situations when sentences can no longer express what we feel inside. And even though we stand here and cry out at the crack of our throats, we don't. We're not gonna do that because... Because we've already told you everything! We've told you our misery, our hopelessness, our hopelessness. We told them our doubts, told them our fears. We told them our average wage is below the minimum wage. We have said that insecurity threatens many of our colleagues on a daily basis. We told you there'd be no one to stay here and work without respect. We told them they'd take away the joy of doing well. We have said that all 93,000 members of the sector need respect. But we also said that our work is important to us, and we want to do it well. The fact that anyone who has remained in the social sector so far considers their profession to be their profession is an important asset. Because what's our job about? It's about the man. It's not usually about people, it's about Pistice, Red Riding Hood, Joji and Eve, and Aunt Kati and Uncle Béla. About them, who are the most vulnerable in this society today, whose votes cannot be turned down by power. We struggle with serious social phenomena while working for these infinitely vulnerable people in crisis! We are fighting poverty, not the poor! We're fighting homelessness, not the homeless! We are fighting our own and our family's economic emigration, not economic immigrants! Is that why we're not good enough for power? We have nothing left to say. There is nothing to say if the responsible secretary of state in the social sector says that he does not feel that it is a failure that the government, after another several weeks of pushing, has taken off the agenda the wage-raising plans of the profession and that no decision on the career model of the sector will be taken soon. We no longer have anything to say if the Secretary of State for the Sector says that today there are a lot of people working in this sector who should not be allowed anywhere near people, let alone social work. That's what he said about us, you and you, who held on to your calling for nothing. And the Secretary of State also said that this is the consequence of a long-term sale of a profession. Isn't that what you're doing? And then that's the end of the conversation! So I'm asking you to shut up for 30 seconds. Into the chilling silence of thousands of people, let us add all our grievances, all our bitterness. Let's be quiet and show the power of silence. [[The congressman's taking a short break.]] And now, together, let's shout, that's enough! I've had enough of the lies and the persuasion. That's enough bullshit! That's enough of the sleight of hand. That's enough sharing. Colleagues! Friends! That's enough of your unnecessary talk! It's time for action! Let's find each other. Social, health, educators, law enforcement, railroads, chemists! Hungarian workers! Let's work together, show some strength to achieve our goals, because we've had enough of our slamming and embezzlement. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, That was the speech here, and you weren't there, so that's why I thought it was important to bring these people's words and will into this House. I'd like to back that up with a sheet of paper from which, if you can't read, you have no heart to put it this way. Aunt Krista gave me this paper. [[The representative shall present a sheet of paper bearing the following inscription: "Children's homes. Temporary homes. Homes. Reception homes. Children's wardens for 94-98 thousand forints. One holiday plus, maybe 106,000 forints. Not without Corvin, there's no Christmas! Aunt Ildi, Aunt Krista, Aunt Mariann and many others without children!]] Aunt Kriszta works as a babysitter, earns 94-98 thousand forints, works with children. If you take a holiday, you may have 106,000 forints. Aunt Krista has cancer. Aunt Krista asked for chemotherapy and radiation treatments for the night so she could do her job during the day. 'Cause, you know, there used to be this commercial that without Corvin, there's no Christmas. Aunt Krista tells you that not without Corvin there is no Christmas, but without Aunt Ildi, Aunt Kriszta, Aunt Mariann and many others there is no Christmas for those children [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] who are in these institutions. With all due respect, give these people 30 billion forints from the 2016 budget! [[14.40]]
u2015-06-01-186	Thank you very much. István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title "István Ikotity Responsible Forever."
u2015-06-01-187	Dear Parliament, Ninety-five years ago, Hungary signed the Trianon peace treaty. We are all aware of the brutal facts of this day. We can argue about what led us there, maybe there's a difference of opinion between us, but we all know that we can't change what happened then. We can't undo the past, but that doesn't mean there's nothing we can do to heal Trianon's wounds. We can never forget the past. I hope we can learn from it. I'd like to talk to you about the obligation Trianon has placed on us right now. If we avoid the simplifications based on daily profit making that policy has turned to the Trianon tragedy over the past decades, then we can finally answer the question intelligently, more effectively than ever: can the 95-year-old wound be healed, and if so, how? Trianon is about how to proceed. I am not talking about what the major policy has done or what it has not done with the heavy burden of Trianon, but about how many people, 95 years ago, have set an example by doing their job in the midst of national tragedy. This is also our job: to assess where we are today, to assess the challenges of territorial loss, to exclude a large part of Hungary beyond the borders today, and to give calm, selfless, effective answers. I am sure that in the years after 1920, there was no day in which the people of that time did not remember what had happened in a castle far away from them in France. But it is also certain that for a moment they have not given up their faith in the existence and existence of a strong Hungarian community. Remembering Trianon, that's all we can think about today. The legacy of tragedy cannot be overcome, but it is necessary to move on. We can't afford to forget what happened, but we can't afford Trianon to put the weight on the action, paralyze the common thinking. We cannot surrender ourselves to national self-pity because it would give up doing something here and now for those whose lives are still determined by the Trianon heritage. Remembering Trianon is not our duty because of the past, but also because of the people living today and the generations to come. Trianon was a moment of injustice and hubris. No Hungarian family deserved to make a decision over its head about its future, so that others would decide their country without asking. But Trianon was also a moment of hubris because the draftrs of the peace treaty thought that it was possible to build a strong peace on pain. They were symbols of injustice and hubris, the separated communities that had lived together in organic unity. Dear Parliament, It is a mistake to pretend that Trianon's legacy belongs only to the pages of the history books, but it is also a mistake to let history back into the present and to think that a responsible policy can be based on the defiant repetition of grievances. Why do we have to avoid this double trap? Quite simply because it does not help those who are still plagued by the Trianon heritage. In recent decades, both mistakes have been abundant, but I do not want to continue to talk about them; I am not interested in harm policy, but in mitigating grievances. What interests me is that Hungarian communities across the border receive all the support they deserve and deserve, but do not have to put up with the unsolicited say in their lives. The burden of the painful Trianon heritage can only be laid down if the Hungarian communities, beyond our borders, are given the right and freedom to take their destiny into their own hands. But as soon as they have done so, they will receive all possible support from us Hungarians so that they can thrive in their homeland. We are in a relatively lighter position with our neighbours in the EU Member State, although, of course, short-sighted, multiculturalist political forces from time to time arouse anti-Hungarian emotions in these too. But we must pay even more attention to the well-being of our fellow countrymen living in the territory of Ukraine, Serbia, and, most importantly, we cannot allow for a divisive, exclusional and mood-inspiring policy at home, which can cause the greatest harm to the people across the border. Our joint task for us Hungarians is to work with neighbouring countries to deal with 95-year-old trauma [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] so that history cannot be a hostage to the political aspirations of the present Party; so that all the people of the Carpathian Basin who are dependent on each other can finally live in mutual respect; that we can remember together and start together towards a happier future. Thank you.
u2015-06-01-188	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that there will be 13 further speeches after the agenda. Here's the order: Zoltán Magyar, László György Lukács, Sándor Bodó, Gergely Farkas, Dóra Dúró, László Teleki, Balázs Ander, László Varga, Lajos Rig, Loránt Hegedűs, István Apáti, Dániel Z. Karpát and Előd Novák. I therefore give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, who gave the following address for his speech after the agenda:. The big loser of the 2016 budget is Győr-Moson-Sopron county. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-189	Thank you for the opportunity. I'm glad you're here, Mr. Secretary, and I understand you're going to answer my questions. I gave this title to my speech today because, unfortunately, in the debate on the budget, I did not have the opportunity to put forward the arguments in favour of all my amendments, because, unfortunately, we have very little time to discuss the budget now. In this way, I wanted to add this here and therefore, after the agenda, to my concerns about the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron, which are not more specific. I think that one of the big losers of next year's budget will be my county, because, for example, in terms of road networks, it is well known that Győr-Moson-Sopron County is in the second worst state in the whole country, and unfortunately there is a very minimal item to remedy this. I have tabled amendments in this way. It is also difficult to list the sections of the road that have already practically drifted to the brink of unwittingness. Of course, the main roads and motorways are of the right quality here, but the already smaller roads, let's say, are almost untraceable, as I said. In this way, for example, I attempted to renovate the roads between Hegyeshalom-Bezenye or, for example, Lébény-Bősárkány, Kimle-Hédervár, but I could have practically brought the entire inter-Rába network here, as we say, the road between the Várbálog and Albertkázmérpuszta. We also find it a problem that the bicycle road network is not being built at an appropriate pace. Although there have been developments in previous years, mainly from European Union sources, it is also a serious problem that these networks of roads and bike roads are not properly connected, so each project hangs in the air, but it cannot substantially join a national network, and they would often be only a few hundred million forints of investments and would boost and improve the use of the bike road network. I also made use of the possibility of an amendment in the area of the sport complex in Ivan. I would very much like for Ivan not only to be famous for the problems of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, but also to have the role to play, and for example, the sport life that is in Ivan would have the right infrastructure. I have made an amendment to make sure that the temple in the wilderness is finally renewed. We are now in the process of closing this church, since it is in a state that threatens the faithful. I would like the state to intervene and take the necessary measures as soon as possible. The same way the Romanian community house needs to be renovated. The question of the thermal bath in Csorna is also a matter that has been the subject of loud debates here in the walls of the House and in my county for many years, because there is every possibility that this thermal bath can operate under more dignified conditions. Compared to this, all we see is the squirming and the fact that the circumstances really are not suitable for serving everyone's unclouded stay, while there could be a great tourist attraction in the region. [[14.50]] I wouldn't touch the Kapuvar meat factory any more now, as it has already been mentioned in my speech today. I am glad that the Secretary of State has partly admitted that there is a government or at least a tax authority responsibility here; I hope that in this case there will really be sinners, that accountability will also happen, and that they will not sneak away, as they have done in previous cases. The Mosonmagyaróvár museum of 56 is also presented to the budget year after year, as I find it quite amazing that in a town with a history of 56 such as Mosonmagyaróvár, where there was the bloodiest rural events of 56, there is no place worthy of it. The same area that has been given, is maintained, and there can be very high-quality commemorations every year, but the existence of a museum, I believe, is a legitimate expectation of the city. We have been demanding this for many years, regardless of governments, but there has not been a proper government response to this. I left the inter-island water supply on purpose for the last time. This is the case in which most government misconceptions and promises have been made in recent years. Quite amazingly, the different wallets made statements that contradict each other. Now that the greatest enemy of technical interference in the waters, Mr. Secretary of State Elijah, has been removed from the government, and perhaps this dark green attitude is slowing down a little, I hope that the will of the islanders will be heard, and that they will finally receive the few little orphans' stone scatters that would allow life to be more livable during the Isle, and that they will have the right quality and amount of water. These were, therefore, very briefly the amendments that I wanted to draw attention to. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-190	Thank you, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has indicated that he wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-01-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He chose a rather special way to argue in favour of the amendments tabled to the draft budget bill before the Parliament, as I looked at his speech in the general debate: he did not say a single word about the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Time is divided by one's own. [[Intercoms from Jobbik, among other things: No! You guys schedule it. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Time is divided by one's own. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among other things: No! You guys schedule it. - The president's ringing. People say that you have time for what you want (intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) and that is true of the Member, and of me and everyone else, but he has the right to argue in his post-scheduled speech. [[Interviews from Jobbik, among others: Thank you very much! He's gone for a minute!]] This is very interesting that the title of your speech is that the big loser of the 2016 budget is Győr-Moson-Sopron county, because there are many people who want to live in that county, especially from the eastern part of the country, because there is one of the highest GDPs produced in the country, there is the lowest unemployment, there are the right job opportunities, maybe across the border. I do not think that Győr-Moson-Sopron County would be a loser in any way in the country, but perhaps a winner, because, for example, if we only look at the municipal tax power for the municipalities of Győr-Moson-Sopron County, it is 20 percent higher than the national average. But not only is Győr-Moson-Sopron County not losing this budget, but nobody in the country. At last, a budget could be made in Hungary that no one is losing, since no one is losing their support, state aid is increasing most, with the priority highlighted by the government in the debate and in other places. As far as your amendment is concerned - in addition to wishing you good luck, you can argue that in the committees [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] and in order to obtain a sufficient majority in committee, and then to win the majority of Parliament with individual amendments, I wish you, of course, a good job for this - I would like to tell you that [[The intervention of György Szilágyi and Dóra Dúró.]] The county of Győr-Moson-Sopron does not miss the other counties in terms of future developments; for example, the two county towns and the county itself, the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron, receive 56 billion HUF from the regional operational programme. Out of this 56 billion forints, major road and bicycle road developments can be implemented, as you mentioned here, and I would obviously like to suggest that you apply primarily for it from the economic operational programme, and there will be a chance that you might be able to achieve this development. Therefore, all the specific problems that you have raised are, by the way, the answers and opportunities of EU development sources; from these sources, resources can also be obtained for church renovation and cultural museum development. So all the specific problems you have raised here are included in the 2016 budget as a source for next year. It is clear that these resources must be available to the municipality or the undertaking concerned. I thank you for bringing to Parliament a problem considered important from the point of view of opposition representatives in a county. I wish that with the opportunities of 2016, you, your county, the settlements that you have told them can live and that they can make these improvements, because it also means the development of the country. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-192	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. György László Lukács, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-meeting speech, which I think would be complete with the 2016 budget. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-06-01-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I chose the genre after the agenda and to talk about the budget because the new negotiating rule puts Members in a shamefully small time frame when the budget is being negotiated, and not everyone is as lucky as the Fidesz Members, whose fellow Members of the KDNP are handing over and giving up the time frame to a hundred minutes instead of talking to themselves. So the Fidesz MEPs talk about their time frame much the same way, but the little brother, you might say, gives them a gallant gift. What is very important, however, is that it should be said between the walls of this House, the better proposals for amending the budget, which partly concern health, partly public interest issues and also Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County - I would like to talk about them. The first such, which would be a conceptual change in health care, which Jobbik saw fit, and we submitted the amendment, is an amendment to one of the health insurance fund's curative-preventive benefits, which would supplement the existing wage development resource to HUF 35.1 billion that is needed in health care. Events in recent weeks have shown that there is an urgent need to settle the wages of health workers. Therefore, Jobbik has put a proposal on the table that the government should support if it thinks responsibly. But another major problem in health was hospital debt. Jobbik believes that this should be done not only this year, but also next year. That is why he put a changer on the table that would spend HUF 30 billion on its own budget for this purpose, which would prevent this debt from growing again or being recouped. But Jobbik also considers the extra contribution of HUF 5 billion to the rescue to be of particular importance, which it would like to take away from the support of the public media service. After all, Jobbik cares more about it and sees more interest in saving it than in the otherwise unsaveable public media. The National Blood Supply Service has been specifically highlighted as an institution to support, because it is absolutely necessary to open up even more room for organ donation and the increase in the number of transplant interventions, especially with an increasing need for EU and neighbouring countries to participate, and this organisation is increasingly active. We would spend more on the transport of patients and spend more on civil society organisations active in the field of health. The government has the same support, otherwise it has an undeservingly low grant, and we would therefore increase their funding by HUF 20 and HUF 50 million on a case-by-case basis. [[15.00]] For example, the Hungarian ILCO Association, the Hungarian Children's Concological Network, or the Hungarian Anti-Crab League budget resources, or the Mályvavirág Foundation will be supported by Jobbik as a whole, as this will carry out cervical cancer screenings and the rehabilitation and diagnosis of people with cervical cancer, which is a very important and high priority in its activities as well. The Hungarian ILCO Association celebrates the 30th anniversary of its foundation in 2016, which is why we thought their support was particularly important, but the Hungarian Anti-Crab League will also jubilee with its 25th year. It is absolutely necessary to support the Hungarian Paediatric Network with the HUF 50 million proposed by Jobbik, as their purchase in the previous year shows that again there is a shortage of assets in the provision of child oncology services, which, with the purchase of HUF 6 million each, could practically complete a national coverage and a machine park renewal, which is definitely justified this year. We consider it particularly important to improve home care. We didn't propose a huge amount of money for this, we simply considered HUF 500 million as justified, which would be a 15 percent wage increase, which would mean so much in home care. In addition to home care, those working in hospice could finally get the visit fee, some of their costs, and this hospital and specialized care system could work much more effectively. We consider it very important to support assisted reproduction, which we wish to push with HUF 3 billion, a separate, competitive self-force fund in which we would make the self-help of couples who have children available for tender. What we would do is help them to get one of the most difficult sources to produce, and to do something about this severe population loss. But I think it is very important to point out that we are also organizing the gymnasium of the Ferenczi Sándor Medical Secondary School in Miskolc, as children practice without a gym and often participate in physical education in the corridors. But I could mention, for example, the construction of the Karcag police station in my constituency. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which has been promised continuously for 25 years, and not even two ministers have arrived to do anything about it. It's time to move on this, too...
u2015-06-01-194	Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-195	... that's what Jobbik wants, and that's what he submitted to the budget health chapter. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-01-196	Thank you very much. Also after the agenda... [[András Tállai: I would like to reply!]] However, the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, wishes to respond to this post-meeting speech. Thank you.
u2015-06-01-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry I didn't say anything, but since there are two speeches following the 2016 budget agenda, we thought about how we would react to it. Mr Luke, however, with the previous speech, basically reiterated what was said in the general debate. It has already indicated that Jobbik would like to propose amendments to the health sector and other improvements. Maybe he explained it a little bit more here. Obviously, I cannot judge the importance and thoroughness of these measures here, but I can judge that as a source of the proposed amendment, it has identified a reserve of extraordinary government measures, and if these amendments were accepted by the Parliament, it would immediately break the Public Finance Act. The proposal you have submitted is worth HUF 75 billion, and we would be in breach of the Ah. 21. Paragraph (2) of the General Reserve, according to which 0.5 per cent of the total expenditure of the central subsystem must be the general reserve, and that would be HUF 82 billion 756 million. But if we accepted your amendment, it would go down to HUF 25 billion immediately. It is therefore a little easier to propose amendments to the opposition because there is no need to pay attention to other legal requirements. I believe that the proposed amendments are obviously intended to improve health, but I would like to say that the 2016 budget also includes serious progress and development in health. GPs move on, as they receive another HUF 10 billion in additional funding. There is 15.3 billion forints available to support workers' wages, of which 12.8 billion are available to increase the mobile wage of doctors and workers, and 2.5 billion forints to support young specialists. But in addition, 11 billion HUF will be added to the expansion and conversion of the medical training support system, the purchase of ambulances; we will spend 2.5 billion for the operation of the rescue management system and 1 billion for the preparation of the new hospital in Budapest. An additional HUF 5 billion is included in the 2016 budget to accommodate overcapacity. So these are extra subsidies in the health system. Let me make one more comment, as you have tabled an amendment to the new building of the Karcag Police Department. I have good news, as the 2016 police budget proposal includes the HUF 300 million bonus, and more than that, we have an additional HUF 450 million on this item in the outlook for 2017. So the total amount of HUF 750 million is planned for 16-17, by 2016 in the bill and by 17 in the planned budget an additional HUF 450 million is planned. I believe that this amount will be sufficient for Karcagon to build a new police headquarters building for two years. I thank the Member for his speech, so we were able to continue the general debate on the budget after the agenda. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-01-198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title of the past, present and future of the town of Hortobágy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-199	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm pretty sure when someone hears the name Hortobágy, they first mean the wilderness, the landscape. That is understandable, for we are witnessing a strange miracle of nature in this magical world. The traces of human activity can be detected from the Stone Age on Hortobágy. After that, every age left your hand on the landscape. Hortobágy is one of our earliest localities. As King Stephen's estate, history first mentions it in 1009. After that, times were hard around here. Because of the alien invaders, the plague, and food shortages, the countryside was almost depopulated. In the depopulated areas, livestock farming later spread. Commercial routes have been established, and as a resting place, csárdas have been built. It is also good to list: Látóképi, Kadarchi, Kishortobágyi, Nagyhortobágyi, Meggyes, Patkos, Kapos. Hortobágy was an area of extremely lush vegetation, forests, and reeds. It's almost unbelievable today. The bridge provided for the crossing of the deadlands, the most famous was the Nine-hole stone bridge built in 1833 according to the plans of Ferenc Povolny, in which the bridge fair was held from 1892. After 1855, everything changed after the regulation of the Tisza. We're out of water. The mere hand is perhaps as human as nature's. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. After World War II, the organisation of state farms began, and there was a great deal of labour demand. People from all over the country came looking for work, earning a living. In the 1950s, the settlement of the area around Csárda began, the later town centre was built, and in a few years, now 50 years ago, a new village was built, which became administratively independent in 1966. When we talk about the special values of the landscape, we marvel at the sights, let us not forget about the people, the community who live here, because without them, this world would not work. How have the Hortobágyans lived in the past years, what plans do the Hortobágyans have for the next period? The development was essentially owned by four main owners. Hortobágy National Park, Génmegvédő Kft. and the farm were the owners of many valuable developments. The results of these can still be admired by visitors. [[15.10]] Civil society organisations related to the settlement have also done important work in the field of development; the Bird Hospital Foundation, the Hortobágy Development Association and other civil society organisations have also done important work. There is a strong performance behind businesses in the settlement, and they are also a strong force in the region. The municipal government has a very difficult task, as besides the village there are several inhabited outskirts under its control, its road network is perhaps the largest in the country. There is a constant demand for the farm bus service, they also won previous tenders, the catering kitchen has been upgraded, the old sewage plant has been recultivated. Within the framework of the LEADER competitions, the viewing area of the water stage was renewed and its surroundings were renewed. So the municipality worked a lot. In addition to these results, there is, of course, much to be done. A logistics centre or processing plant is needed to facilitate the marketing of products from farmers in and around the village. It is a task to repair the Nine-hole Bridge environment, to create a riverside promenade and to develop the environment of the Grand Csard. There is a need for elderly people in Hortobágy to live in homes, sports grounds, modernization of public lighting, renovation of the doctor's office, energy upgrades, improvement of water quality. It may be possible to continue the line, but the biggest question is what the fate of the inhabited outskirts will be. Obviously not now, this is not where the decision is, and we know that we are at the beginning of an application cycle. The community of the municipality and Hortobágy prepares for these applications. So let us salute the unparalleled natural values, acknowledge the results of the 50 years since the birth of the settlement, and consider this anniversary the nearly 1600 people whose joy and care belong to Hortobágy. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-200	Thank you, Congressman Bodo. I would like to inform Congressman that, on behalf of the government, the Ministry of Agriculture will respond in writing. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas, from the Jobbik Group, also applied for an after-the-meet speech: After World War II, a title for Germans deported from Hungary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-201	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech three weeks ago after the agenda, after World War II, I remembered tens of thousands of Hungarians who had been displaced from Upper Hungary to a truncated country. The memory of the Germans expelled from Hungary is also closely linked to their ordeals. I would like to link the two tragic events, because in many cases the Hungarians who were settled in the highlands were moved into the houses of the Swedish families who had previously been chased to Germany by the Communists. This was also the case at the Bács-Kiskun County Boat and Emperor's Load, where, despite what has happened, thousands of German-speaking fellow citizens still live to this day. German lips lived in the Carpathian Basin for a thousand years, but some of them after the expulsion of the Turks, the XVII-XVIII. It was installed in the 18th century to replace the population and labour force that had been reduced by war. Their judgment has always been much better than that of the other minorities, and so far it can be said. The Hungarian-Swabian cohabitation was thus well-functioning in everyday life, and then XX. The stormy history of the century ended. On 19 January 1946 the evacuation of the German community in Hungary began in Budaörs. By the end of the war, the Shvabs in the country were considered the housemakers of Hitler, they were made scapegoats for the actions of the Third Reich, and they were collectively responsible for the German minority as a whole. According to the decree issued, the Hungarian citizen who declared himself a German national or a native language at the last census was obliged to leave Germany, who re-Germanized his Hungarian name, who was a member of the Volksbund or the SS. According to official data, between 1946-1948 185,000 Germans were thus deprived of their citizenship and were persecuted by the invading Germany, which was destroyed by war. Of course, the principle that data provided at the census cannot have any consequences for those concerned has not yet been taken into account. Only those who were able to prove that they remained faithful to the Hungarian nation in difficult times were granted immunity because they were persecuted for claiming to be Hungarians. It is typical that the Regulation has already maximized the number of exempt persons by 10%. The implementing instructions attached to the Regulation on Deportation also regulated that all of the properties of the displaced Shvabs will be transferred to the Hungarian State. This was necessary because, according to the plans of the Hungarian government, Hungarians from Czechoslovakia and the poor peasants from the land distribution were to be introduced into the empty houses of the Swabians. I would also like to point out, for a thought, that the great powers, which were already in the role of supporters of human rights and national self-determination, contributed to the post-war conference in Potsdam, where Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Poland could relocate their German nationals. As we know, history is written by the winners, so these little things are not detailed in postwar history. Overall, along with the migrations during the war, Hungary's Germanism decreased by less than half, fundamentally changing the ethnic color of Transdanubia and speeding up the integration of the remaining Germans. The Germans in Hungary took 500,000 acres of land from a total of 640 thousand acres during the land distribution and evacuations. These were given mainly to farmers relocating within the country, and to a lesser extent to Hungarians fleeing Czechoslovakia. Out of 60,400 houses, 15 650 remained belonging to the Swabians. He came from a large number of German-speaking communities and had German ancestors among others: Ferenc Puskás, János Gundel, Alajos Hauszmann, József Hild, Pál Kitaibel, Ignác Semmelweis, Mihály Munkácsy, Ferenc Herczeg, Ferenc Liszt or Miklós Ybl, and I could name them more. Besides them, there were many figures in our history and public life who, besides their proud German identity, also had Hungarian identity and worked for the well-being of the common country. Let us remember, then, with respect, our former German fellow citizens, who lived among us for hundreds of years as useful members of society. Help them to preserve their culture and to cultivate their traditions, as we also strengthen our country, Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-202	Thank you, Congressman. The children have applied for a speech after the agenda entitled Smile in the future, from the Jobbik Group, Mrs Dóra Dúró.
u2015-06-01-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the last Sunday of May, we celebrate children's day and child's day, and this is a good opportunity to review what children in Hungarian society, in Hungarian politics, mean, what families who have children mean, how we help them bring their desired children into the world. Since 1980 the number of Hungarians has been running low, so 35 years have been wasted, 35 years we can talk about the fact that the number of Hungarians is not increasing, Hungarians are not increasing, but are losing weight and shrinking. And that only means statistics in truncated countries, if we attach cross-border areas, it's even worse. If the family support system is taken into account, it can be said that since 2011, the rate of family tax relief has remained unchanged. And the second child raise was promised twice last year by the government that from 1 January this year, so from 2015 there were obviously two campaigns when they needed it, and then nothing happened. Next year, it is even possible to start increasing family tax incentives for the second child. On several occasions Jobbik has also raised the urgent need to do so, because it is not only the three children that need to be talked about, and not only the three children need to be helped, but also the problem in Hungarian society is that families do not go from one to the other, so the second child should also be supported. This is why we have repeatedly suggested that, in addition to increasing the level of tax relief, other benefits should be extended even after two children. We can think about camping as summer vacation approaches, but I could also mention food support and travel support. The fact is that in the case of three children, almost all of them are free of charge, while in the case of two children there is no benefit for families at all. We believe that these should be extended, not at the expense of the three children. [[15.20]] After all, if the goal is to increase the number of Hungarians, then it is indeed the ideal family model if everyone raises at least three children. At the same time, it is also necessary to see that the number of Hungarians has unfortunately shrunk to such an extent that all women of childbearing age should now have four children in order to reach the desired number of souls in Hungary. There is an urgent need to abolish the nursery care fee. This was introduced by the Orbán government, and the second Orbán government paid for the cradle. Now it is not only for the child to eat in these institutions, but also for the child to stay there. This is particularly detrimental from a demographic point of view because it prevents women from returning to work and returning to work. We can now say that the trend has reversed compared to thirty years ago, so the demographic crisis has been reduced in the countries where women are employed by the government. Thirty years ago, the situation in Hungary was different. At the time, there was a need for women to be at home as long as possible. The situation is reversed today. It is therefore necessary not only to help women to work and to return after birth to the world of work, but also to provide them with day care, crèches and kindergartens. This approach is contrary to the introduction of a nursery care fee, which puts a new burden on families. The issue of babysitting in summer isn't solved. Unfortunately, families are forced to take their leave of absence, so once the father is on leave, then the mother is in order to ensure that their child is supervised in the summer. That is why Jobbik proposes to increase camping benefits and create family-friendly jobs. It is a great shame that in Hungary some multi-company companies are only the ones that allow mothers to bring their children into their workplace and provide them with supervision. This should not only be done in the workplace, but also in higher education, because the shift in the age of mothers in the birth of the first child is also a very serious problem that can lead to the worsening of the demographic crisis. In the following year, support for family-friendly jobs will have about the same amount of money in the budget as support for the Tom Lantos Institute, although I think it is a much more serious, indeed, issue of national strategy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-204	Thank you, Congresswoman. He also applied for a statement after the agenda... [[On Dr. Bence Rétvári's mark:]] I'm sorry, I didn't see the sign. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, will respond to Mrs Dóra Dúró's statement after the agenda.
u2015-06-01-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, In fact, the congresswoman's speech should have replaced only a few half-phrases, and it could have been a very nice government report on the family-friendly measures of the last five years, because these measures are indeed almost unprecedented in the history of the past 25 years in Hungary after the regime change, since family policy and family support have been extended to a extent that has not been the case. There was also a reason why this had to be extended, as the fertility rate in Hungary has fallen to a historic low point. At the beginning of the previous government cycle, a woman of childbearing age had only 1,21 to 1.26 children, and this change was raised to 1.41, so it is noticeable. Several children have been born for 20 months. The pace you have said is that the rate of population loss over more than 30 years has slowed down, as more and more children have seen the light of day fortunately, and this continues to appear as a trend of one and a half, slowly two years. This is obviously slower because positive government measures on childbearing can deliver results at least 9 months after the adoption of the measure, but in general it can be said that after a year or two. We tried to bring stability to the family policy system in the previous cycle, since the fundamental law on the protection of families now contains the most important family support elements in two-thirds form. This means that they cannot be abolished by a half majority. Obviously, there are some who still have the memory of the post-2002 period, when in two years the Medgyessy government has dismantled the family policy support of the first Orbán government. We have tried to prevent this from happening, so that all families will now benefit from two thirds of the laws. If I look at the latest data, in the last three months - January-February-March - there is a 3.3 percent increase in the number of children born. We hope that this trend will continue. He played a role in this family-type taxation system. You know very well, Congresswoman, that there are hundreds of billions of forints left in the family. On average, an average Hungarian family can manage more than 20,000 HUF per month as a result of the government's introduction of the family-type taxation system and extended it to contributions from January 1, 2014. This meant that it was precisely the families who made the most of their income. Therefore, as we have already talked about in Parliament today, the proportion of children and families with children could also decrease within poor citizens. However, it is clear that the benefits of having children are not only important for these types of family tax systems, but also important for having a family home benefit, which will be available from 1 July. We hope that thousands of families will have the opportunity to contribute to a children's room so that when they expand their apartments, buy new apartments, whether used or new apartments, or build them, they can create that nursery with this family home-building discount. The value of this can be higher than HUF 3 million, which, depending on where you live and how many children you have in the country, you can receive as state aid. Similarly, tax laws clearly show that families with two children will, of course, double the amount of family tax relief over several years. With regard to the placement of children, which she made up for reasons, she did not add that there was a 25-percent increase in nursery and family day care, from 37 thousand to 47 thousand, while 13 per cent of children under the age of three were only available at the time of government formation in 2010, this increased to 16-17 per cent by last year, so the expansion is felt here as well. It is also important that when talking about nursery schools and kindergartens, it is not only an increase in capacity, as this government is expanding and building capacity at a rate of one and a half or three times compared to the previous period, but also that it provides free meals for children whose family income per person is less than 130 per cent net of the minimum wage, so that about 90 per cent of families are given free meals, and in addition, three years of age in an emerging system. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They receive textbooks free of charge, which also removes burdens from the shoulders of families. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-01-206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Teleki MSZP MEP also applied for a post-meeting speech on the issue of child poverty. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-207	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Continuing with the line of thought that I have already expressed in my previous speech, there is indeed a great deal of trouble in the case of child poverty and child hunger, because the last data I have seen, I think, is shocking to everyone. A report was published recently, based on a joint survey by the Faculty of Social Sciences of ELTE and the Children's Food Foundation, which measured a settlement specifically, a small village in Nógrád county, where in the last two thousand years there was about 80-85 percent child poverty, and today there is 95 percent child poverty. A list of ten basic elements has been drawn up. This means that all the basic things have been assessed, and that's how this number came out. I think it is possible to argue with these things in many cases, but it is not worth it; it is not because it should be done to eliminate child poverty. [[15.30]] According to my values - as I said before, and I keep it now - no child can starve, no child should starve, either during the summer or during the winter. I'm glad you're here, and if you'd like to respond, I'd like to thank you. What you said was that the amounts have increased now, of course I accept it, but what I can't quite see, Mr. Secretary, is that that raised amount for elementary school students and, say, for kindergartens and daycare providers, is that they can really focus, so that they can serve. We know that there is a very short break in kindergarten, and you can see that it may be better resolved, and in kindergarten, if that is true, that there is a shorter break, but I think that the problems arise not only in the lower classes, but also in the upper classes, but also in the eighth grade. I therefore believe that not only in its numerical nature, but also in its organisation, must be prepared for this problem. I know that local governments are ready, but we have been told very often that there is not enough resources - we could hear it in the years before last year and last year - there is not enough resources to reduce child hunger at some level. Therefore, I think that this is very important. You mentioned it, and I would also like to bring employment back to this issue, because we should prefer not aid, but work, to try to make a living on the basis of work, and then there will be no need for aid. I agree perfectly with this, but what I see and feel is that there are not enough jobs - as I said in my previous speech - is that there are not enough jobs because I consider public employment to be a very useful thing, but it cannot break out into the primary market, or very rarely can the person who gets into this spiral because it is increasingly difficult to break out into the primary labour market. How will this question be dealt with? Because if we are to continue to make only aid available, it is very difficult to deal with this issue well and adequately. I would therefore consider it very important - and I will say it again - what the European Union has required to do to narrow down the opportunities and opportunities that are trying to focus only on public work and public employment. I would therefore consider it important for the government to address the question of how to get workers to the primary labour market. I think it is very important to mention Roma poverty on the issue of poverty. I don't want to separate it, because it doesn't matter to me, and I think for everyone that is Roma or non-Roma, it's only important that we make sure that it doesn't starve, but there are Roma who are in need of periphery, but they have a much harder livelihood. He mentioned employment on my former issue. I would like to point out, Mr Secretary, that from the environment I am talking about, they cannot go to work, they cannot learn from that environment, they can only take part in segregational education from that environment, because the wealthy students of the settlement are going to study elsewhere. Therefore, I think that there is a question in this matter that we expect a very correct answer to, not only from the Hungarian Socialist Party, but from those who live in poverty outside and who live in conditions of poverty that are sometimes inhumane. Thank you, and if you answer, I'll thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-01-208	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-06-01-209	Thank you very much for the opportunity and the word. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, A very large number of questions have been addressed by the Member, which has affected public employment, has affected public education and has affected social assistance. We continue to think of job creation as the most comprehensive solution, since it is obviously best for children to be fed by their parents, not through the state to receive several, healthy and adequate meals a day. That is why we considered it important for those who would not have a realistic opportunity to work on the labour market to be included in public employment in the order of up to 100,000. What you have read, presented here an international survey, may not account for the fact that people who have been in public employment, whether they have been out of work for many years, five years, ten years or fifteen years. They have a very, very difficult job in the market, because all entrepreneurs obviously want to include someone with a fresh job experience, and they've only been unemployed for a few weeks or a few months, not someone who hasn't worked for ten years and is completely out of practice. Only the state can help them. Only public employment can help them. If it weren't for public employment, these people would be left completely alone. But we agree, of course, that this would not be the final stop where we would like them to be, which is why we call it Start work, which is why it can only be 11 months a year, because we encourage them to move to a significantly higher, minimum wage or even higher job. That is why there is a difference between starting work or public employment wages and the minimum wage, so that the transition is felt and as many people strive to find such jobs for themselves. Nevertheless, as I have said to you today, the number of people employed has increased by hundreds of thousands, by 400 thousand, and unemployment has also decreased by a quarter of a million, and we see that employment numbers are getting better every month. This required protecting people's jobs against the negative effects of the economic crisis in the work plan, and public employment, which has helped people who live very hard in the world of aid or who are on the verge of living. If I look at it simply from a budget perspective, it is much easier to pay aid to the budget in principle, as it is easier to organise and costs much less. A public worker costs three times as much as a welfare worker, but we are confident that we can help families more in the long run. So much for the public employment part. The public education part. Obviously, it's also important for someone to go to school. You know that there were around 29 thousand children who had been missing more than 50 hours five years ago. Anyone who doesn't go to school will obviously not be able to break out of poverty. Obviously, those who are least cared for by their parents do not go to school, so we introduced that instead of the family allowance, they, who are school - age, receive school support, and thus the number of those who are missing more than 50 hours of school was reduced from 29 thousand to 16,000. Thus, as a result of this measure, 13 thousand more children have the opportunity to break out of the life situation they are in, probably in most cases a very poor family background. It is also important to go to school and kindergarten, which is also mandatory from the age of three, because there you will receive at least three healthy meals a day - warm at noon. So who is already in kindergarten from next September, goes to school, and the family's income, as has been mentioned several times today, is lower than the net value of 130 per cent of the minimum wage - this is what about 90 per cent of the kindergarten and kindergarten age fall into, and they are all fed free of charge. This is also one of the most important measures against child hunger, child poverty, as there in kindergarten, and obviously under the current rules, people in need, at least three children - and they could still be classified - will be fed free of charge in primary school several times a day. This has also been a discount for hundreds of thousands of students, and it will be much more than that from 1 September. This is why the government has doubled the amount for children's meals over the last five years, and will increase it further in the next year's budget, and in the summer period after HUF 2.6 billion, which is obviously an increase compared to last year, since it was 2.4 billion, if I remember correctly, this year it will amount to HUF 3 billion. So this has increased noticeably, and we hope that it will reach as many children as possible, like the food package program, an operational programme to support people in need. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-01-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Ander Balázs Jobbikos applied for an address after the agenda titled "Destruction - South Somogyi Village Walking III." You have the floor.
u2015-06-01-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the criticism of the pro-government representative that I describe South Somogy and rural life with such dark colors that the audience would like to cut their veins after the report. Well, I'm afraid that with the results of my new villages in South Somogy, I'm also not going to be able to jump the hurrah-optimist standard that some people expect here, but obviously it's not the fault of reality, but it's just because of my subjective vision. [[15.40]] Well, let's get on with it, shall we? According to the Prime Minister's terminology, the population of Komlósdon, 170 people, can be very adventurous, since according to the Mayor's courtesy, some 27 locals are looking for their prosperity somewhere in the West and the excitement. But despite the miserable salaries, the people who stay in the house are not in trouble, because I met a villager who works for 14 thousand forints a month to supplement the retirement of a few, the public workers of the village, who were almost all women, and who were already in the concrete at the time of the visit. Although it's not really a woman's job, they do it because the bills have to be paid, and now that's the job. I think it's likely, by the way, that the half-million-dollar Gucci or Louis Vuitton Riddik barrels, peacocks in impossible tight suits, would ruin your pants with a noble simplicity if you had to push such heavy wheelbarrows all day. The next visited village, the seventy years ago, was still 1,200 enthusiastic, then the color Hungarian Reformed settlement, Istvándi. The problem of ageing, the resulting loss of population and the processes of ethnic reorganization, which are closely linked to it, also determine the fate of this village. He once carried the essence of the Hungarian peasant life form, but all of this has now gone nowhere, storms of history and XX. The destruction of the second half of the century wiped out the once prosperous village. Istvándi Istvándi, with 650 people who are in need of long-term jobs with a huge unemployment rate, which has been reduced to a large number of disadvantaged, crushed and now maimed society, has no good reputation in the settlements of South Somogy. To the young, agile mayor of gypsy origin elected in the autumn - the husband of my former pupil - whom I spent two hours on the streets of the village talking about their problems and ideas, but he was determined to recover something from lost prestige. His words were a testament to dedication, but so far the actions and the ideas outlined supported it. He himself, being a hard-working, unfavorable man, has set up a municipal garden and is working to build a camera system, and he does not want to achieve the integration of gypsyism by means of a derelict liberal protection of rights. He also talked about changing views, changing the mentality of the people there, about the importance of the parenting example, about the need to learn, and if someone wants to break out, he must do everything he can and he cannot expect everything from society, from the state. There is a Prussian rule - a denial that led me to the village - which, by the way, is sometimes accused of terror by elements that are unwelcome to the line, which are embarrassing to the honest part of the gypsy. In addition to the Reformed Church under renovation, it has also become clear that the historical churches, even without state aid, unfortunately do not fulfil the prominent and historical role they would have to play in the integration of Gypsyism, as well as according to Jobbik's ideas. Like I said, the village doesn't have good news. Many have avoided it as an enemy tribal area to which it is not advisable to enter. The new mayor is determined to make Istvándi a normal village. Hang in there, I wish you good luck with your work. Just don't let Amnesty International attack him in the end, saying he's a perverted right-wing Nazi. In any case, it may even be very suspicious for those who have seen a fascist threat everywhere, that the environment of the monument in honor of the heroes of World War II is well maintained. Well, as a matter of fact, I'd like to tell you something. Dear Zsiga Marcell. And they tell you from everywhere that if you really think you can make a living of 47,000 forints a month, you should come and try it; the rest, given the authority of this House, I would rather not quote it now. However, I would ask my fellow pro-government Members to: [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] support Jobbik's regional rescue budget changes. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-212	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, István Nagy, State Secretary, wishes to answer.
u2015-06-01-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, We've discussed and talked about Somogy's problems several times, and the truth is, I've just heard from you what the key is: they want to break out of the situation they've been forced into in history and history. This is the key, this is the solution to it, because every single government help, every single support will be vanity, and it will always be limited if there is no intention behind it, such a will that they want to do it themselves and fight to get out of the situation in which history has dragged even Istvándi. The government's aim is to bring about an apparent improvement in the social and economic processes in the countryside, which can be seen by all stakeholders. To this end, we aim to implement rural development programmes which, building on the values of the people and the community, cultivate traditions, manage natural resources in a sustainable way, and develop agriculture to restore the value of rural life. In the spirit of the above, one of the national programmes applied and formulated in the national rural strategy is the development programme for small-scale areas. The infrastructure of these municipalities is mostly underdeveloped, the quality of local services is mostly low, which often encounters poor availability and the need to commute. As a result, small villages have low population retention and demographic erosion is strong. In addition to EU funds for the development of these villages last year, a specific programme was envisaged. As a basis for development, we have already supported the agricultural economy, public employment based on the agricultural economy, the social economy, tourism and recreation through a number of measures. The basic principle of the functioning of the social benefit system is that people who are excluded from the labour market must earn their livelihoods primarily by encouraging employment, and the system of cash social benefits was transformed along this principle from 1 March 2015. As a result of the measures implemented, the tasks of the State and the municipality in relation to aid have been clearly separated. In the new system, the State assumes responsibility for the financing of compulsory benefits. This appropriation is intended to cover the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, repair and repair of equipment and parts of equipment and equipment. After 1 March 2015, the municipalities do not have to contribute to the financing of these benefits. As I mentioned earlier, the financing of the benefits provided by the State will be fully financed from the central budget as of 1 March 2015, so that from that date the municipalities have no role to play in ensuring that these benefits are covered, which is a fact that it will take a heavy burden off the shoulders of the municipalities. The source of local aid is primarily local tax revenue, but municipalities without adequate tax power can receive support from the central budget, with HUF 30 billion available in this year's budget. The government's aim is to give everyone the opportunity to work so that they can make a permanent improvement of the difficult financial conditions available to people currently living on aid. In order to make the income needed for their livelihood as many people as possible instead of the HUF 22 800 grant, in 2015 there was a significant increase in public employment funding of nearly HUF 270 billion compared to 2014, which means that HUF 270 billion is available for this purpose. A further increase in the resources available for public employment is expected in 2016. The development of community transport to meet the needs of daily work and commuting, the development of economic activities providing the economic basis for small villages, the promotion of local businesses, the promotion of the social economy and its functioning have all been and will continue to receive special attention. The government allocates a total of HUF 70 billion to municipalities with a population of less than 1000 during the 2014-2020 period. I think all money is only worth something if there are willing, hardworking people on the other side, and we want to solve this difficult situation together. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2015-06-01-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At the end of the season, Mr László Varga MSZP spoke after the agenda. You have the floor.
u2015-06-01-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Hungarian football finishes a season, we usually appreciate your actions here, as you have made Hungarian football the front of your politics by becoming the leaders of some clubs and spending billions on investments such as the Fidesz Stadium of Fidesz. So maybe it's worth watching the results of the last five years. On the one hand, billions go to stadiums in teams that, unfortunately, can start in the third class next year - not unfortunately, but in fact. There was also a picnic newspaper article on this issue, which focused on the fact that, in fact, there would not be a third-class championship in the world that would have such high-quality stadiums, or in a few years' time, if it all worked out. I may be able to compare England to this, but I don't think it's the best way to catch up with England these years. Obviously, this calls for a rethink of many investments. Perhaps it is pointless to build stadiums of this quality and spectatorship in several places. But speaking of audiences, these are pathetic these years. The audiences are falling every now and then. Several Internet portals have dealt with the fact that they are even cosmetically spectators, so to speak, more than reality. Except for a few games, it's general. They said there was a need for measures, tightening up, cheerleading cards, registration, and there's gonna be other fans, and there's gonna be others coming in instead of those who are going to the game today. In addition to the fact that this was an outrageous sentence and an expression, in contrast to those who held on to Hungarian football during the most difficult period, no one came. This can be seen from the countless matches that took place in front of a few hundred viewers. Perhaps the last match of the Pope was symbolic, which even turned off the lights at the end of the match. I think the reason there's no mood is because there's no organized cheerleading groups there, and the lack of atmosphere spoils the fun of families. So it is worth reconsidering this question. In particular, the introduction of the fan card was also due to the fact that many of them claimed that it would be possible to eliminate criminals from the stadiums, and then one of the MLSZ board members was hit by the Quaestor scandal. After all, I do not think that there is a very moral basis for creating administrative barriers to this type of group of organised fans. So you don't have to look for faults in organized cheerleading groups, I think. I have to say that the 12-team NB I has proven what the NB I is actually able to do economically on the football front in Hungary today, and it is obvious that strictness is very important in the field of the economy, but consistency may be even more important, because not so long ago there was a club, Újpest, that could start a new kft. Maybe the out-of-town clubs would have been interested in this opportunity. The leading line of Hungarian football disappears, but the second class also disappears from complete parts of the country, mainly from the countryside. I don't think that could have been a goal. You can ask me if we have anything to do with this, whether Parliament has anything to do with this. After the agenda, we can do a lot of things, that's what they say, we can talk about public life here, but I think we have this situation, which is what I would like to say to my fellow Members. I don't think we can put this off any longer. On the one hand, stadium investments should be streamlined. We in Diósgyőr say that the reconstruction of the stadium in Diósgyőr always starts next year, we experience it every year, it starts next year, even though it has been promised for some time. I think it would make sense to develop here, while elsewhere - I can say a number of these points in the budget - it really doesn't make sense to spend billions of dollars in the way that, by the way, there is a social situation in this country. Rethink, therefore, the budget is mainly for stadium investment for third-class teams - this is my proposal. On the other hand, we have a few weeks of this session. Here's June, I suggest we change the legal background for the fan card and the fan registration. It can't be in anyone's interest to play moodless Hungarian football, it can't be in their interest to exclude thousands of people, even tens of thousands of fans, from the NB I matches. I suggest that we bring in legislation that will resolve this situation with the involvement of the cheerleading office and the fans. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2015-06-01-216	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Rig Jobbikos also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:. Will there still be a promise? It's an address. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-06-01-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I am glad that even Mr. Secretary of State has remained in the room, and I hope that my reflection will be answered again. In July 2012, in the Tapolca hospital, as we know, active inpatients ceased, the Tapolca hospital also entered the structural change hospitals, despite the dissatisfaction of the population. We all know that the main reason for the restructuring change was economic, first and second, to take into account the needs of the population. If we look at the economic aspects, we have to mention the fact that after the restructuring, the debt of Tapolca Hospital reached HUF 100 million, out of which 70 million hit two companies in the city. One of the companies is Tapolca Student Étettető Kft., which provided for the provision of hospital patient food from the 500 HUF head quota mentioned earlier by the Secretary of State. The economic director sent me the data showing that a patient's food can be obtained from this 500 forint. Well, it's very slim, and it's only enough to supply the norm, but the price of dietetic diets such as Giordano-Giovanetti or food containing 180 grams of carbohydrates didn't include it, because it could have been brought out much higher. On 31 March 2015, the Government paid this debt to the hospital, but only its share of the capital. Other things the government hasn't settled yet, but it hasn't even started a consultation. This fact shows that the conversion failed economically. At the same time, the burden of his lips increased, and his debt reached a difficult stage. At the same time, the waiting list has increased in that institution. The burdens of the lips hospital also confirm the legitimate needs of the population, which have been said either in the press or in the public forums for more than two years. In April 2015, there was an interim election in constituency 3 and the partial restoration of active medical beds at the press conference of State Secretary Gábor Zombor during the campaign. According to the Secretary of State, rehabilitation developments are also organically linked to the operation of a relatively low number of active beds in internal medicine that is able to carry out medical emergencies in a progressive manner. The health fund will finance the provision of day-to-day surgical care in the Tapolca hospital every week in the future, with the right operating room and a ten surgical departments with active beds providing the background. Let's take a look at the residential needs. You did not take into account the poor assessment, since it is not in the public's interest that active inpatient care should be discontinued. The hospital in Tapolca had 90 active beds, 50 medical and 40 surgical beds. It should be added that it provided 55,000 inhabitants, and in the summer period it swelled up to 72,000 because of tourists visiting. On the other hand, you promised a fraction of this - 15 internal medical matrices and 5 sub-intensives - by washing the definitions together. Day-old surgery is not the same as the active surgical department, either because of its profile or because of the disease groups to be treated. The form of care in one-day surgical care has to meet a number of conditions that greatly narrow the area of care that can be operated on in the form of care. Here patients must undergo preliminary examinations, receive an ASA classification, but ASA III and IV can no longer be operated on in one-day surgery with a simple hernia. [[16.00]] Nor is the fact that if a patient is operated on in the morning or if his condition worsens in the afternoon or if a reoperative is required, that patient can no longer be treated in this institution, since there is no surgical, anesthesiological or anesthesiological assistant, since their working time is over. So the patient is transferred to an institution with an active surgical department. In this unimaginable state, every hospital, including Tapolca, that has been affected by the change of structure in such a way that active inpatient care has ceased. When does the promise become real? When will the Tapolcans get what's theirs? When will the active beds promised by you be returned, or will they remain on a promise level? The citizens of Tapolca will never ignore what was taken from them; they will only ask for back what was theirs and will not forget who took it from them. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-218	Thank you, Congressman. Member Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, notary, Jobbik Group, also came forward for the post-scheduled speech. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-06-01-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Over the last summer, election campaigns have been concentrated in the press from strategic partnership agreements and job-creating grants concluded by the government. In this series of news, we have also heard that Agulhas-Solar Kft. is modernising its solar cell production line. In Szolnok, and for all of this, the company received nearly HUF 155 million in funding from the New Széchenyi Plan. The company started its production in Szolnok just four years ago, and has already received twice the EU's money, with a total of HUF 558 million, but the condition for this assistance was, among other things, the employment of a certain number of workers until 2017. Until recently, the company could expect significant turnover, but from January it changed suddenly and unexpectedly. The management of the company filed for bankruptcy at the Szolnok Tribunal, the factory closed on 24 February and has not been operational since. The employees have not received a single penny of salary this year, and the owner refuses to respond to any requests. There's total uncertainty. The company that won more than half a billion forints of public money is 60 employees, so it is responsible for the fate of 60 families. Now the management of the company is pointing to alleged Chinese developers, talking about backward investments, and, of course, the pro-government press, which has so optimistic a vision so far, is listening. Yet the question arises: What does the government intend to do to help troubled workers? How does the government intend to enforce the employment required as a condition for public funds granted so far, or, if this is already impossible, will the aid be recovered? Can we hope that more informed decisions will be taken in the future in the award of tenders? The families affected are desperate for answers, but the government is silent. And while the authorities delay, there will be news in the press about another major employer in the region: Surjány-Hus Kft. The Turkish plant of Szentmiklós leaves 500 people and the persons concerned could not receive their salary in May. I would like to remind everyone that, recently, back in 2012, Minister Sándor Fazekas posed before the cameras with a large smile when he handed over the new section of this meat plant. I would add that, contrary to the Szolnok example, the Turkish company in Szentmiklós did not receive a single penny of support from the government, neither when the aforementioned development was implemented, nor when it became apparent to the management of the meat plant that they could no longer overcome their financial difficulties without outside assistance. They turned to the government, there was no meaningful response. It seems Minister Fazekas is now not trying to stand in front of cameras, leaving Fidesz to the fate of the company and with it the hundreds of families whose livelihood depends on the meat plant. Dear House, According to government hurrahoptimism, the budget for support for families and job creation, and government players bidding on each other, are increasing numbers of new jobs. But we can also hear about how much easier it will be to make a living because the government creates a good state. That is, let us say, the earthly Paradise, where everyone on earth can be saved. Ladies and gentlemen, Instead of all the beautiful, wide-screen dreams, let's go back to reality. I have given two concrete examples where hundreds of families are inexhaustible in their lives, as a result of irresponsible government decisions hundreds of millions of forints of EU funding has been spent completely unnecessarily. We're looking for a settlement, we know that, no job, no pay. It seems that the early riser, hardworking little man, is paying the price for the irresponsible visualization of the government. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-220	Thank you. Dear Congresswoman, Madam Recorder. I have been informed that, on behalf of the Government, the Ministry of National Economy will respond in writing to what has been said. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: I am very pleased, thank you very much. I can't wait.]] István Apáti, Jobbikós Member also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:., Are the farmers of Satmar as much as half a stadium? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On Monday, an extremely rare weather phenomenon, called a supercell, destroyed in the area of Satmar, Csenger and Csenger, as well as in several settlements in the area called Erdőhát. This extremely rare phenomenon entered the territory of the truncated country around 17:00 p.m. on Whitsun Monday, from the state formation called Romania, over 200 kilometres, over a period of about 3-4 hours, with unchanged energy, without collapse. As a result, in most places hailed for half an hour and an hour, practically a storm of ice, accompanied by a precipitation of about 50 to 100 millimeters. Last Saturday, I saw it with my own eyes, personally convinced myself that it had virtually the effect of carpet bombing on the settlements and on the various crops, virtually no crop would have escaped. The wheat, corn and sunflowers were virtually equalized to the ground, especially in the forestback area - not a mistake, what I'm about to say - 500-1000 river meters of cucumber have died, and in the orchards, in large numbers of apple, plum and covens in the area, there will be so much damage in most places, not only this year, but not even next year. So, at best, if there are no further disasters, then in 2017 orchards can expect some kind of revenue. And let's add that we practically don't have any markets. Last year, one of the gold or outstanding products in the area was sold at a price of HUF 8-10-12 and the purchase price of the apple was not above HUF 40, which is virtually well below the cost price. So there are no markets, what there is, is practically an extremely weak buying-in price, and then there has been - in recent years, by the way, more and more frequent - a hail that has perhaps not destroyed the region in the last hundred years. Let me list the settlements, Mr. Secretary of State: Csenger, Csengersima, Szamosbecs, Szamostatárfalva, Szamosgyalos, Komlódtótfalu - there has been no hail in Komlódtótfalu for a hundred years, I would like to highlight this specifically - and several settlements of Erdőhát. Right now, the behavior of the Fidesz congressmen is quite interesting. I'm sorry, none of you are... or fidesz in this room, exactly. The representative of the Városnámény district imagines that the hail can recognize the boundaries of the constituencies, so he is thinking of an intelligent hail system, and he is only trying to help settlements belonging to the Erdőhát, his own constituency, through some form of pretend activity or additional action. And the so-called so-called representative of the constituencies of beller-Mátészalka is only used to visit the area for city days and village days when they have cooked, say, the deer stewed and the cold plum brandy. Well, at this point, one should pay tribute to a so-called individual representative in the region, but either he won't answer the phone, or at best he'll tell you to turn it in, there'll be money for everything. And I would like to mention this now, Mr Secretary of State, because we can talk - and these would be useful debates - about what ice recovery systems should be installed, whether rocket launch systems or Belgian air pressure technology systems. We should also talk about the agricultural insurance system we are thinking about in the future, because now farmers cannot accept the offers of companies that provide 12 to 13 percent of the estimated crop value, 12 to 13 percent of the insurance premiums cannot be raised under these conditions and from such buying-in prices. [[16.10]] The said ice storm has caused 5-10 billion forints of damage to this region at least, according to the most modest estimates, but I wouldn't be surprised if the total amount was more than 10 billion without exaggerating. And let me say here that farmers do not demand it, and on behalf of farmers, I do not demand full compensation either because I want to help them with some kind of excessive benefit. It is not that they want to spend this amount on movable or immovable property growth; it is not that they want to buy A8 Audi out of the amount of compensation. The point, Mr Secretary of State, is that both in vegetable cultures and in arable crops and in orchards, the amount required to survive and the compensation from the principle of a forint for a forint is not enough, that is not going to cover the fraction. That's why I asked a little bit of attention and provocatively whether these farmers were worth as much, whether these people and these jobs were worth half a stadium. We are not only talking about the survival of farmers and thousands of farmers, Mr. Secretary of State, but also about thousands of tens of thousands of jobs, virtually farmers are the only employers, almost outside the municipalities. I do not see the warlike stand of Magos that we experienced in 2007 when István Jakab threatened to break the gate of Parliament in connection with the spring frost damage in 2007. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This battle heat has not gone through the Magos leadership. So I ask you whether farmers can expect full compensation; if so, within what time limit, according to what payment schedule. So, are they worth half a stadium worth, say, half a sports facility up the road? Thank you and I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-222	Thank you, Congressman. Then I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2015-06-01-223	Dear fellow Member, Thank you for bringing this matter to the public of Parliament, because when the problem happens, I think that it knows no boundaries, not even that there is an opposition or a pro-government representative. I myself am from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, I was born there, so I know what it means to be vulnerable in nature. Who works with the heat always depends on their options, and believe me, Magos is working with all its means to find a solution for farmers to be compensated. The Ministry of Agriculture places great emphasis on risk prevention and risk management in order to reduce the agricultural impact of elemental damage which is increasingly occurring due to climate change. With regard to the current damage, we are aware of the importance of rapid assistance, so we are looking at the possibility that injured farmers will not be left without money until payments are made from the agricultural compensation scheme. As with the loan scheme for producers suffering frost damage in May 2011, a long-term loan facility with preferential conditions could be considered to replace the sources lost due to hail. To this end, we contacted the MFB, the Hungarian Development Bank, in order to map out what is the most optimal tool to help producers hit by hails. In Hungary, ice damage is one of the most common damage events, causing significant damage not only to agriculture but also to the population year after year. As you know, Mr President, the 2012 agricultural compensation scheme, which has been renewed since then, has also managed the ice damage. The scope of the damage covered has increased, the effectiveness of the injury assessment, the assessment of injury and the full remediation process has improved. In order to address legitimate producers' damages, the previous 30 per cent limit for damages was delivered to 15 per cent, and in November 2014 we introduced an electronic system that facilitates producers' claims, thus allowing them to report local damage at parcel level. It is important that the current hail and hail damage be reported within 15 days of its occurrence by injured producers, in which village farmers of course provide assistance. This year, small producers who are not obliged to be members may voluntarily join the scheme by 16 June. Please help us to draw the producers' attention to the fact that they can now join without further delay and in full legal terms, this will be very helpful in providing compensation. Since 2012, we have also provided premium subsidies for agricultural insurance, which also cover the ice damage. In the absence of adequate insurance, only half of the otherwise due compensation allowance will be entitled to the producer. The deadline for insurance for this year's support has been extended until 30 June. In addition to compensation, prevention is a priority. In this cycle, the Ministry of Agriculture set the objective of building an anti-creep system covering the entire country in addition to the current operation in South Hungary, which was undertaken by the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy. We also place great emphasis on risk prevention investments that will soon be announced under the new rural development programme, such as the ice web and its installation. I very much hope that you will see, Mr President, that we are not only trying to solve some of the problems, but also to eliminate all the problems that could arise in the coming period. Of course, we have a responsibility to it, and we are talking about one of Szabolcs' poorest districts to provide a livelihood. The Ministry of Agriculture is also working to provide financial support and assistance to these farmers with a quick solution, so that we can reduce in a second way the damage that cannot otherwise be fully secured by a hundred percent. There must be an opportunity to reduce the damage that farmers have suffered. That is why we are working on how we can immediately give farmers money to participate in this compensation process as soon as possible. I think that the management of this individual case is enough to draw our attention to the fact that climate conditions in Hungary have changed greatly and that we can face a situation from time to time, as you have mentioned, that there has not been a precedent for this in a hundred years. Unfortunately, our environmental conditions are like that now. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that we are increasingly experiencing such extreme effects, and that only a general, general, country-wide system will be able to prevent this. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-01-224	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, After the agenda also spoke Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát Jobbikós, Member of the European Parliament:. When will there be a realistic chance for a young Hungarian to get his own home out of self-power? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-225	Mr President, Dear House, We, the better Members, are a little puzzled here, even though we already have hundreds of parliamentary speeches behind us, because we have the number of pro-government representatives - or even less - on one hand. And we must say that when we close another budget cycle, its general debate, we have once again come to the point that the budget does not have a real line of home creation. So when a Hungarian youth thinks about whether he is able to survive in this country, how much of the average salary according to the KSH, which is barely over 150 thousand, can he force himself out to his own home, he will certainly do a head count, and he will conclude that he will probably not within 20 years. When we talk about the fact that the government seems to be trying to help young Hungarians with the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called, the figures unfortunately show that this has reached only a few hundred people in the last year. When it comes to soccer, it is said that they can make it possible for ten thousand people to buy a flat for, say, 15.5 instead of 18 million. But if we are realistic about the chances for a Hungarian youth to vote with their feet without outside help, we can see that, unfortunately, most people vote with their feet, since experts estimate between 300 and 500 thousand of those who have already left this country as a kind of economic refugee and not out of an adventure. You can see that, while your so-called Socpol system reached a few hundred people in 2012, the last year with a closed data supply, there were fewer apartments built in the country than during World War II. It can also be said that a total of 158 apartments were built in 2013 and 293 in 2014 with public support. For example, Mihály Varga stated in December 2014 that the government's goal is to build 40,000 apartments a year in the country. I would add that the construction of 10,000 apartments for about 44,000 people could provide stable, secure, predictable work and thus pay. As a percentage of the population, in Austria, five times as many properties are raised and five times as many apartments are available as we do. But let this not be the norm, let it be at least a standard that in Germany, which is much more expensive than us, only 19 percent VAT is charged on both the purchase of homes and the construction and renovation of homes. In our case, we are talking about a European record, 27 percent VAT, which is the tax of the poor, the most difficult layers in the line, but also hinders this area. [[16.20]] As you can see, while Jobbik presents its amendment proposals for a public home-building and rental-building programme, your silence is amazing. The silence that surrounds the idea of a Hungarian youth moving in for half and a third of the market price, and if he is able to comply with the basic social co-existence rules, and I believe that 95 percent of them are capable of complying with them, would certainly be the property of the apartment after a few years of rental. In this way, we could save the long and long years of foreign work for many Hungarian people who leave this country either for this reason alone or for most of the reason, simply because they are unable to separate from the family in any other way, to start a single family, to have children. In view of Hungary's disastrous demographic situation, it would be a dog's duty to support such a programme with a real, real home-building budget line, with tens of billions. After all, according to professional calculations, within a period of 4-6 years, every HUF spent will rewind to the economy through various multiplier effects, generating additional tax payments, updating the dried-up economy that, due to the disorder of so-called foreign currency loans and many other reasons, simply cannot function properly. Overall, there is therefore a need for immediate VAT reductions in the area of housing construction, home purchase and development, as well as for a home creation programme that provides a realistic vision for all young Hungarians. Compared to this, in your budgets, only the public leg of the exchange rate barrier 2.0 has been found in recent years, so you have supported the banks for the alleged help they have provided to the Hungarian people. We still see that in the draft budget, the British dairy farmers and the economy are directly available for the support of the British dairy farmers and the Hungarian tax forints, not only more than the amount that is spent on the flask baby program, or as much as, let's say, almost all of our brothers living across the Bethlen Gábor Fund, but also [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There's not enough for a home-building program. [[The president's ringing again.]] as you donate to Britain with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, inexplicably. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-226	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that, on behalf of the Government, the Ministry of National Economy will respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novak, the betterman, has also applied for a speech after the agenda. The title of his statement after the agenda is: Can Béla Biszku also be free to leave because of government and administrative delays and his Communist pension will be extended? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-01-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The most amazing example of the derailment of the regime change, the lack of accountability, is today's second-degree final order, announced by the Metropolitan Court in the criminal trial against Béla Biszku. This actually stated that Béla Biszku, the leader of the retribution after 1956, would be sentenced to life imprisonment. So the delay continues, the delay for which XX is responsible. The parties of the century, i.e. the governments of the last 25 years, and the prosecutor's office responsible for the complaint of my fellow Member György Szilágyi and István Apáti, continued to investigate Béla Biszku, but instead of placing Béla Biszku in custody in parallel in view of the urgency of the case, they would have prosecuted as soon as possible. The delay was successfully continued, and the court now continues, which in this new procedure envelops the fact that Béla Biszku does not have to spend one day in prison, even because of the lack of prior arrest, which the prosecution has not initiated, but is expected to never say in Hungary that Béla Biszku is guilty. This will not be established legally by a court in Hungary. For a new procedure in the case of Béla Biszku, 94 years of age, means that according to the paper form and given the state of the case, and that further delay is expected from the defence, negotiations on health and old age will be cancelled, we have seen bias and similar proposals in the course of the negotiations that have taken place so far. So we can say that Peter Mansfeld is spinning in his grave. He also turned when our complaint against the prosecutor György Mátsik, who asked for his death sentence, as my colleague György Szilágyi made the complaint, was rejected. There was no investigation at the time, let alone an indictment, nor an investigation; the prosecution rejected our complaint on such grounds that the prosecution of the '50s might envy it. After that, Béla Biszku is free to go and even enjoy the hundreds of thousands of HUF luxury pensions that Fidesz continues to grant him, and the MSZP, which voted out in a great coalition the better proposal for the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions in the last cycle on numerous occasions, to the greatest pleasure of Béla Biszku. At first, he avoided the spotlight around the regime change - he feared that if he was noticed, he might also have to fear accountability. But then, seeing how he receives this hundreds of thousands of pensions, our proposal for this, in which Béla Biszku was mentioned so many times by name, is being swept down, with the arms of Fidesz and MSZP, is so encouraged that in 2012 Béla Biszku took part in the inauguration of the public statue of János Kádár. And yeah, now he's laughing in our faces. You are free to go to the house of the Rose Hill, enjoy the communist pension; you are free to go as - speaking of the lack of accountability - Gábor Simon is free to leave according to the leaked news of the pro-government newspaper. You are free to leave, and you can keep more than 100 million forints of stolen money, from which only personal income tax and health contributions are levied by the current government. However, we believe that stolen money comes back and sins must be followed by punishment. However, this seems not to be the case for the current government, at least in the case of 1956. It is therefore still expected to be a life sentence, a delay in life, while enjoying the luxury pension that thousands more enjoy in the country, and which means billions of forints, if, taking seriously, not only one or two Béla Biszkus, we were to say seriously that, through blood judges and prosecutors, to members of the Central Committee of the MSZMP, who could be here even in the colors of the MSZP, Members of Parliament could be ashamed, we would extend the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions to all of them, then this would not only be a symbolic, but also a legitimate restriction of billions of forints per year. But they don't want to hear about it, just like they tried to do the half-solution with a few pretense measures to stop the pension bonus for the Communist medals, only to our proposal, and only to the tenth of those involved. So there were a Red Star Medal of Honor, a partisan in armed combat, and even similar awards, for which the current government considers it appropriate to continue to pay pension allowances. And we are pleased to say that, in the case of Béla Biszku, the basic pension of several hundred thousand forints, which the current government does not want to hear, has been reduced by a few thousand forints - with its communist pension bonus. I trust you won't have to wait for Jobbik to get on the government with all this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-01-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This concludes the line of speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first day of the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 8 June 2015, in accordance with the agreed working schedule. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:28 p.m.]]
